

201 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2057 words

HEADLINE: Men on TV: Dumb as Posts And Proud of It

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
HOMER SIMPSON doesn't bother me. When he sits on his sofa, directly across from the television set, beer in hand, slack-jawed, with a blank stare to represent a brain set on stall, I don't really believe that our nation's nuclear power plants are operated by his kind. At least I know that Matt Groening, who created Homer and his sallow-faced, bug-eyed family, did not intend him as a role model.
Homer is, after all, just a really famous cartoon. If he were the only heterosexual adult male on television who seemed inordinately pleased with himself and blissfully unaware of his low I.Q., prime time would be in good shape. But in recent months I've been noticing his live-action counterparts. 
 Sometimes they can be caught in precisely the same pose. There's the title character of "The King of Queens" (Kevin James), whose lifelong dream is still to turn his basement into a private hideaway for watching sports on big-screen television. An episode of "Everybody Loves Raymond" begins with the title character's father and brother (Peter Boyle and Brad Garrett) seemingly hypnotized in front of a televised football game. When Raymond (Ray Romano) greets them, they respond with a single simultaneous grunt. And on reruns of "Friends," Chandler (Matthew Perry) and Joey (Matt LeBlanc) -- witty, upwardly mobile Manhattan bachelors -- veg out for sports telecasts in their matching recliner chairs. (Chandler has since been resocialized by moving in with Monica.)
But television sports mania is not these characters' only fault. Men in a growing number of comedies are depicted as rude, crude, sex-crazed, sexist, childish and blindly egotistical.
The curmudgeonly title character of "Becker" (Ted Danson), a middle-aged doctor, says things like: "If you want to know about women, you don't ask a woman. If you want to know about meat, do you ask a cow?" When a patient tells him that an injection hurt, Becker replies, "Grow up, will you?" On "Friends," Joey eats steak with his fingers at Ross's wedding reception. On "Dharma and Greg," Greg (Thomas Gibson), a respectable married lawyer, can't have his wife (Jenna Elfman) work at his office because every time he looks at her, his legal training and his self-discipline vanish and he has to have sex with her, right there on the desk. Prime time gives us grown men who can't stop giggling in church, bawdy male magazine publishers married to women half their age and men who stick Montblanc pens up their noses in order to meet women in the emergency room. Anyone who watches television regularly could get the impression that one of the two sexes on this planet is not only dimwitted and uncouth but darned proud of it.
In their desperate attempt to lure male viewers (and all the dollars advertisers believe they are ready to spend), the powers that be in television seem to have decided to appeal to the lowest common denominator. And it's remarkably low.
Maybe this glorification of the dumb started with the research. Men, as any pollster can tell you, do watch football -- a contest in which, its fans point out, the best men really do win and it's all about sheer ability, not politics or personality, at least during the game itself. Men also watch wrestling, in which hypermasculine, hyperstrong men take on outrageous personas and act out the battle between good and evil. So what do the programming experts decide? Rather than developing or buying series that might appeal to those fascinations with ability, victory versus defeat or good versus evil, they give us shows about men watching football and wrestling. And doing little else. Now little boys across America want to grow up to be just like them.
Seriously. The last time Children Now, a California media advocacy group, surveyed 10- to 17-year-old boys, the top television role models they named were all sitcom characters, most of them a little off-kilter. One was Tim the tool guy (Tim Allen), the inept handyman who liked to growl to demonstrate his manliness on "Home Improvement." But he was a responsible husband and father -- and at least partly facetious. Two were smart-mouthed New York single guys from "Seinfeld": Jerry Seinfeld's namesake character, a likable enough stand-up comedian, and Kramer (Michael Richards), a complete lunatic who spent most of the show's eight-year run unemployed and couldn't manage to walk into a room without falling down. The two other people boys wanted to be like were, God help us, Homer Simpson and his chip-off-the-old-block son, Bart, whose contribution to the English language so far has been the admonition, "Eat my shorts."
Come on. Prime time is strewn with noble, brave, dedicated, attractive male characters that any little boy might be proud to emulate. Why does no one want to be Dr. John Carter (Noah Wyle) or Dr. Peter Benton (Eriq LaSalle) from "E.R."? Or Bobby Donnell (Dylan McDermott) on "The Practice"? Or any of the police officers on "N.Y.P.D. Blue"? A lot of these characters are single, good-looking, making good money and doing quite well with women. Presumably the younger boys are in bed by 10 p.m., when many of the serious dramas are on the air. But there could be two other answers.
First, these characters are all working themselves to death. As television dramas have become more realistic, they have increasingly depicted adults as stressed out, physically exhausted and in almost constant moral agony, often fighting uphill battles against the idiots at their hospitals, law offices, precincts and other workplaces.
Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) on "The X-Files," for instance, may be a big, tough, handsome F.B.I. agent who carries a gun and is smarter than everybody else (except his partner, Scully, played by Gillian Anderson), but he's also a little deranged, what with his fixation on flying saucers and government plots, and his immediate superiors constantly try to thwart him. Moreover, the man hasn't had a date in ages. If this unspoken, slowly building sexual-tension thing with Scully doesn't work out when the series ends, Mulder could end up alone for life.
So maybe it's just that 12-year-olds don't want to grow up to be burned-out, sleep-deprived misfits. The Peter Pan syndrome isn't all about fear of commitment, you know. Or -- more horrible thought -- maybe Dr. Carter, Dr. Benton, Bobby Donnell and the rest actually turn into slack-jawed, beer-drinking, sports-watching zombies after hours. Sure, medicine, law and law enforcement are demanding fields, but Perry Mason (Raymond Burr) always looked fresh, well rested and sure of himself. Marcus Welby (Robert Young) was cool, calm and collected for seven seasons. Of course, in their day, series heroes were almost infallible; neither of them had to deal with actually losing cases or patients.
Second, it may be simply that young men aren't watching these particular would-be role models. The dramas that feature sensitive, intelligent male adults are often shows with predominantly female audiences. You think George Clooney became the most bankable star on "E.R." because of heterosexual male viewers? And the more emotionally mature and aware the male character, the more likely it is that he's being written for a series aimed largely at women to begin with.
Take Rick (Billy Campbell), the boyish, fortyish divorced architect in "Once and Again," ABC's freshman drama about divorced parents in love. Rick is so sensitive that the first time he and Lily (Sela Ward), a fortyish divorced bookstore owner, meet, he gently, reassuringly tells her daughter how to take care of her soccer injury. On "Providence," NBC's treacly drama about Dr. Sydney Hansen (Melina Kanakaredes), a plastic surgeon who leaves her superficial Los Angeles life behind to move back to her hometown in Rhode Island, Sydney's father (Mike Farrell) is a sensitive type. You can tell because he's a veterinarian who's really gentle with pets and often sits around looking sad because his wife died. Sydney even actually finds love interests who open up. One, dealing with a health crisis not long ago, confessed to Sydney: "Some things are hard to admit. Some are even harder to say. I don't want to go through this alone." Good role model in terms of emotional communication, but it's doubtful that a lot of growing boys were watching; "Providence" is the prime-time equivalent of a chick flick.
Anyway, that guy was actually acknowledging that he needed help, that he was willing to be less than completely in control. The author Susan Faludi suggests that in our culture men have come to believe they aren't real men if they aren't in control. And in our culture it's hard to be in control of anything, which is what those workplace-based dramas often reveal. Even today's doctors, lawyers and cops are shown losing to forces beyond their -- oops, there's that word again -- control. In "Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man," Ms. Faludi also says that at the turn of the 21st century, men are searching for a way to recapture the masculine camaraderie and purpose of World War II, their fathers' proving ground.
From the look of things, they are settling for camaraderie alone. But there's no reason that characters who watch football games and get a little drunk together can't be good human beings as well. Television's quintessential sensitive guy, Hawkeye Pierce of "M*A*S*H," as played by Alan Alda, was the class clown of his Korean War medical unit, an usually successful seducer of women and a dedicated martini drinker. Well, at least that was true at the beginning of the series; maybe the writers decided that viewers couldn't handle a character so complicated that he had those "faults" and yet was both wise enough to see war for the horrible waste that it is and sentimental enough to have sympathy for the other side. So they cleaned Hawkeye up as the seasons passed. Our loss.
It's not that the male television oaf is anything new. Chester A. Riley of "The Life of Riley," as played by both Jackie Gleason and William Bendix, was a classic big, dumb lug. But at least he was a little embarrassed about it.
And Riley was funny. Yes, it's important to remember that all of the current shows with idiotic male characters are comedies, and comedy thrives on exaggeration. Lucy Ricardo, the beloved heroine of "I Love Lucy," reinforced every 20th-century stereotype of women: she couldn't handle money, loved to gossip, took good care of her man and was singularly ditsy, but she didn't know how good she had it just being a housewife and mother. The female sitcom heroines that followed avoided that kind of automatic sexism. On "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," Mary Richards's problem was being too nice. On "Murphy Brown," the title character's problem was just the opposite.
Of course, any attempt in the year 2000 to base a female character on the old stereotypes would cause an outcry among viewers. Just look at the objections to "Ally McBeal," whose title character wears short skirts and worries as much about her love life as her law career. David E. Kelley, the show's creator, is actually an equal-opportunity stereotypist. The men on "Ally McBeal" are just as superficial and insecure as the women.
THE demands of political correctness could be part of the problem as well. All that stored-up tension from being careful not to offend women, black people, gay people, animal rights activists or any nationality on earth comes out in the creation of grotesque male characters. As long as men are in power, they are the one group that television can ridicule without fear of reprisal.
Take a classic episode of "The Simpsons," in which Homer and Marge's intelligent, cheerful daughter Lisa goes into a funk when she realizes she has Homer's genes and so is destined to grow up to be just as big an idiot as he is. (This is a man who once threw his own wallet into the fireplace, so pickpockets would not be able to get it during his coming trip to New York.) Lisa's parents try to reassure her by gathering lots of Simpson relatives together, but they turn out to be jerks and failures of various kinds. Until Lisa starts meeting the female Simpsons, who are brain surgeons and professors and rocket scientists. "The defective Simpson gene is on the Y chromosome," one of the women explains, so it affects only the family's men.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On "Becker," Ted Danson is a politically incorrect malcontent and proud of it. (CBS); On "Everybody Loves Raymond," with Patricia Heaton, Ray Romano, Brad Garrett and Peter Boyle, the male oaf lives on. (Richard Cartwright/CBS)(pg. 35)
 
Drawing (20th Century Fox Film Corp.)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PRIME TIME FREEWARE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (57%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (57%); POWER PLANTS (57%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: MATT GROENING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



202 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Long Island;
High-Tech Companies Seek Space Near the Train

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN

 BODY:
THE desirability of a Long Island office building has traditionally been determined by rental price, amenities and a location close to major highways. Now, with fast-growing high-technology companies competing for skilled personnel, a new ingredient has been added: proximity to train stations and other public transportation so that companies can more easily tap into New York City's vast labor pool, or even reach out to workers in New Jersey and Connecticut.
"The way these companies know they can grow their businesses is to get into these central locations where they can attract a lot of employees," said Gus P. Nuzzolese, a senior managing director at the Sutton & Edwards commercial brokerage firm in Lake Success. "What makes a software company a great company is the quality of people it hires." 
 The vast majority of workers on Long Island, including those from the city, commute by car. But companies like the FatWire Corporation, which is about to move into its new headquarters at 330 Old Country Road in Mineola in a deal brokered by Mr. Nuzzolese, see proximity to a train station as a way of getting a competitive edge in attracting employees.
"One of the most strategic things about locating here is that it is one block from the Long Island Rail Road station, because about half our people come from Queens, Brooklyn and Manhattan," said Mark Fasciano, FatWire's president and a co-founder. His partners in the company are Ari Kahn, chief technical officer, and John Murcott, vice president of development services.
FatWire, like some other blossoming software companies, was started by its founders in a private house -- in FatWire's case over a garage in Oyster Bay. Now, three and a half years later, the company, which produces content-management software for the development and maintenance of complex Web sites, counts I.B.M. and major dot-com companies among its clients. FatWire has 55 employees, and its executives say it expects to have a staff of 120 by the end of the year.
It recently received $9.25 million in venture capital financing and will be almost tripling its space, moving from 6,000 square feet in Port Washington to 17,400 square feet in the Mineola building.
"When we were wrestling with the problem of looking for more space, the question came up, why not relocate to Silicon Alley?," said Mr. Fasciano, referring to the technology areas in downtown Manhattan. "The answer is we have much more flexibility on Long Island, where costs are much lower. And part of the culture of developing technology companies and software companies is that you need peace and space and a pleasant work environment because people are putting in tremendous hours."
One reason FatWire has been able to fill its recruitment needs, said Mr. Fasciano, whose Web site's recruiting section includes the sentence, "You won't need a car to work here," "is because our recruiting pool is not just Long Island."
A SHORTAGE in the local labor force, especially involving high technology, has some economists worrying that future economic growth could be threatened. The February unemployment rate was 3 percent in Nassau and 3.9 percent in Suffolk. In the 12 months that ended last December, the Long Island economy generated 43,000 new jobs, while the resident labor force expanded by only 11,400 workers, not enough to keep pace with job growth, said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a Commack-based business group.
Richard W. Kruse, a founder and the vice chairman of the Long Island Software and Technology Network -- LISTnet -- estimated that for every seven openings on Long Island in the high-technology sector there is only one applicant. Although Long Island's colleges and universities have some of the finest computer science programs in the country, Mr. Kruse said, the current need is for experienced people.
Many engineers who might have used their skills in the high-tech sector moved elsewhere after the demise of Long Island's defense industry, he said. "We are grabbing young people coming out of school," he said, "but they're entry level, and we miss the experienced worker."
Mr. Kruse is also president of the Stratem Computer Group in Great River, a company that installs computer networks and provides consulting services, and of Connectem.com in Bethpage, a software company that provides wireless software solutions.
LISTnet, the nonprofit group he helped found, is headquartered in Great River at the Long Island Technology Center. The group was formed two and a half years ago to further the growth of high technology on Long Island. Initially, it had six members; now it has 800.
Garry D. Silivanch, president of Global Data Services, an executive recruiting firm in Northport, said he expected the shortage of high-technology workers to worsen. "Demand is on the increase, everyone is becoming computer literate, business applications especially in Web development are in great demand, and a lot of people are going into Wall Street jobs and not into technology sciences," he said.
One reason employers are looking to New York City to fill their employment needs is that many immigrants with computer and programming skills are coming from Russia, India and elsewhere in Asia and are settling in the city, said Chris Klepeis, director of recruiting services at Invision.com, a Commack-based company that offers services that include e-business consulting and Web page design. Ms. Klepeis is also the Web administrator for LIjobs.com, a Web recruiting site where Long Island high-tech companies can post job offerings.
"There has been an explosion of companies trying to stay on the cutting edge of technology, and to do that they have to bring in people who know that technology," she said.
When Vacation.com decided to consolidate four regional offices it leased new office space close to a train station, selecting Franklin Avenue in Garden City, where it has taken 18,000 square feet at 1225 Franklin Avenue, one of four buildings in the 450,000-square-foot Franklin Avenue Plaza complex. Vacation.com, a travel services marketing company, will start moving into its new offices in May.
"Employees with the technology skills we need are very tough to find, and by being close to the railroad we opened ourselves up to a much broader employee talent pool," said Richard C. Knodt, the company's president.
THE company links together more than 9,800 North American travel agencies on its Web site, where vacation and travel business products are offered to consumers. It also helps the agencies establish their own Web sites.
It too has had explosive growth. Started 18 months ago, it now employs more than 100 people in offices on Long Island, in St. Paul, Minn., and Boston, and in its executive offices in Washington.
The company recently bought four travel agencies in Bay Shore, Rockville Centre and West Islip and in New City in Rockland County and is combining their personnel in Garden City. It employs 52 people on Long Island, but is seeking 12 more in such areas as Web site design, sales and marketing and customer service, Mr. Knodt said.
Employers say they have no problem getting workers to commute from the city if the trip is made easy. "It's an easy sell when you compare standing on a subway train for a half hour to sitting on a Long Island Rail Road train for a half hour," said Daniel M. Pess, chief financial officer of QueryObject Systems Corporation, a Roslyn-based software company. "Suffolk wouldn't work for us because it would be a much harder sell if you tell people they have to sit on a train for an hour and a half."
The two-year-old Roslyn company develops software that allows organizations that use large and complex amounts of data the ability to analyze the data more quickly and in more detail. An Internet subsidiary is called IQO.com. It moved to Roslyn, next to the train station, from Uniondale last October with 33 employees and has since added 11 more workers, all from New York City and New Jersey. It is looking for more space in Roslyn because it expects to add as many as 50 employees over the next 12 months, Mr. Pess said.
Given Nassau's tight office market, finding space not only in prime buildings but in prime buildings close to transportation is easier said than done, commercial brokers say.
Richard Someck, a senior executive director at Sutton & Edwards, said the solution he found for a client -- MaterialNet.com -- that needed more space but wanted to find something as convenient to the train as its location at 170 Great Neck Road in Great Neck was a bus to the train. The eight-month-old company provides an Internet marketplace for nonprecious metals, including steel, iron, aluminum, copper and brass.
Mr. Someck found 20,000 square feet at 5 Dakota Drive in Lake Success, which has direct bus service to the Great Neck station, placing Manhattan within a 55-minute commute. The lease was signed in late March, and the company began moving in last week. It plans to add 100 employees to the 40 it now employs.
"In this tight labor market we want to attract top talent, so being near public transportation was very important to us," said Rob G. Heller, MaterialNet.com's chief financial officer. "People come out here because we share our vision with them, they believe in us, and they love the environment."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ari Kahn, far left, and John Murcott are moving FatWire into new headquarters, right, just a block from the Mineola train station. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); 

PERSON: RICHARD W KRUSE (59%); MARK FASCIANO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



203 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Rent Regulation In New York City

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Anne Gilman's 10-year saga with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal "After Agency's Reversal, a Tenant Faces Eviction," March 5 certainly inspires sympathy for her plight -- and blame rests squarely with our tortured rent-regulation system.
The fact that she and her then spouse agreed pay $2,000 a month rent on a formerly rent-controlled apartment clearly makes it a "fair market" rent. What then "convinced" Ms. Gilman that she was being overcharged? 
 The bizarre element in the regulation scheme is that price has little relation to value. We all know about wildly divergent rents for identical apartments. The Gilmans valued the apartment at $2,000 and agreed to pay it; they should have abided by their agreement.
A million unregulated tenants in New York City rent apartments without government interference; others purchase houses, co-ops and condominiums without consulting a government price sheet. What justification is there for one group to regularly renegotiate and appeal the commitments they have voluntarily signed?
How about a word of sympathy for the owner who signed a contract in good faith, had his income slashed in half and was assigned a $50,000 penalty, all by an agency that took 10 years to make a series of incompetent and contradictory decisions. With the help of lawyers on both sides, everyone, including the taxpayers, will wind up worse off than when they started.
 
KATHLEEN ELVIN
 Vice President
 Small Property Owners
 of New York 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EVICTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: ANNE GILMAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



204 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
No Chicken. No Beef. Just Hog Wild.

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM 

DATELINE: MICKLETON

 BODY:
In 1865, Jeremiah Haines's great-great-grandmother began taking in the neighbors' hogs to make ends meet during the winter. The widow, who had a house full of children, would make pork sausage and scrapple and cure and smoke bacon until springtime when she and her family could farm.
Today, Mr. Haines uses the same recipes used by Rachel Haines in the 1800's. He doesn't farm the way her family did, and he processes the pork year round, not just in the winter. 
 The business, Haines Pork Store, has moved a mile down the road from her farmhouse and instead of just attracting the neighbors, it has customers who drive more than an hour to get their Easter ham, a crown roast for Christmas or pork to eat with sauerkraut for New Year's Day. And while they are there, most customers will pick up a pork roast with the special seasonings, a recipe developed by Mr. Haines's father, Jeremiah Ellison Haines.
"People will come a ways to get it because we are so small we can cater to individual customers," Mr. Haines said. "Some people like to talk to us. We get to know people, what trips they've been on and who's in their family."
The shop, on Kings Highway in this rural community, is tucked between farmhouses in East Greenwich, a Gloucester County township made up of three towns with a total population of about 5,000. And as in many old farming towns in South Jersey, the fields are being sold to developers and the houses are going up 10 and 20 at a time.
Inside, the brown ceramic tile floor is spotless and the stainless-steel counters are gleaming. Mr. Haines, 55, works with his son-in-law, Harry Sheldon, and one fulltime employee. During busy times of the year, like Easter, when the line is out the door and all the way to the street, he brings in other family members or college students to help.
Mr. Haines can often be found in the back grinding sausage with 180 pounds of pig hanging under a plastic covering waiting to be processed. Hogs are purchased and cleaned in Pennsylvania before being brought to the shop.
There's no chicken for sale. No cole slaw. No rolls. Just pork, though you can get lard for 40 cents a pound and some recipe sheets to guide you in preparing pork.
There are pig mobiles hanging from the ceiling, and photographs of Mr. Haines's relatives decorate the walls, including one of his great-grandfather taking the meat by horse and wagon into Philadelphia to sell it at the city markets.
Dallas Hockman, vice president of marketing for the National Pork Producers Council, said in a telephone interview that there were probably only a handful of shops around the country like Haines, where a store has stayed in the same location, owned by the same family for more than 100 years.
But in the last five years, speciality stores featuring pork have been opening around the country as part of the trend of gearing shops to consumers who want something they can't get in a supermarket.
"We're seeing an emerging trend of more specialization in the marketplace," said Mr. Hockman. "They're looking for something different as evident by the cars we drive, the clothes we wear and the sodas we drink."
Even though pork is third in the types of meat Americans consume -- behind chicken and beef -- it has made a comeback in the last decade, Mr. Hockman said. The successful 14-year-old marketing campaign of "the other white meat" showed consumers that pork producers had created a leaner product, he said. Last year, 54 pounds of pork per person was consumed in the United States, as against 46 pounds in 1996.
Mr. Haines doesn't rely on advertising or marketing to keep his business steady. He considers all stores competition for him, but he hasn't seen his business drop in recent years -- even with the opening of a farmer's market in a neighboring town and new supermarkets dotting the highways.
But it does surprise Mr. Haines that people will travel so far. Customers will often tell him that they remember coming to the store with their parents or grandparents.
One of them is Connie Starr, who drives 30 minutes from Bellmawr every six to eight weeks to get pork roasts. Last month she came by to order her Easter ham. The shop usually sells about 500 hams the week before Easter and even more during the Christmas season.
"It's chaos near Easter, but it's still worth it," Ms. Starr said. "I'll buy anything he has. I love it. It's a family thing. I've never gone anywhere else to get my pork products. When you bring your kids in here, they're in awe of it."
Sue Costill, the town clerk of East Greenwich, who lives down the road from the shop, said she is used to folks stopping and asking her where "that pork store" is.
Mr. Haines says he didn't plan to spend his life in the family business. He received a master's degree from Cornell in agricultural economics, and thought he would work for a large company. But in the 1960's -- when farming became tougher economically -- his father began concentrating on the retail business and in the early 1970's asked his son to help run the store.
"I wanted out of the small town and into the real world," he said. "But when I came back, I was glad I did."
Customers like Peg Manochi of Haddonfield, who are willing to drive 25 miles to get there, are the heart of the business. Ms. Manochi was brought to the shop by a neighbor five years ago and has been coming back regularly ever since.
"I thought I had found pork heaven," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though the store has moved a mile down the road, Jeremiah Haines, above, uses the same recipes as his great-great-grandmother did in the 1800's. Customers like William Faust of Barrington come from all over South Jersey for a crown roast at Christmas or an Easter ham. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HAINES PORK SHOP (MICKLETON, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: HAINES PORK SHOP (MICKLETON, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICKLETON (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT PORK (90%); MAMMALS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MEAT STORES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); FLOORING (50%); 

PERSON: NUSSBAUM, DEBRA JEREMIAH ELLISON HAINES (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



205 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 10; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Cells: Energy Partners at Odds

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS 

DATELINE: UPTON

 BODY:
THERE was something about the white canopy covering the rows of metal folding chairs -- and about seeing Christie Brinkley perched on one of those chairs -- that lifted the drab surroundings at the Brookhaven National Laboratory into the surreal.
Ms. Brinkley and her husband, the architect Peter Cook, who are East End homeowners and active environmentalists, recently joined politicians, engineers and reporters to hear Energy Secretary Bill Richardson introduce a cleaner energy technology that seems to have pitted two energy partners against each other. 
 Mr. Richardson was joined by Richard M. Kessel, chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, to announce a joint venture between his department, LIPA and a manufacturer, Plug Power Inc., to bring fuel cells to the Island.
"The rise of heating oil and gas prices has provided the nation with a real challenge," Secretary Richardson said. "This fuel cell technology offers such promise: turning natural gas directly into electricity."
Fuel cells are fed a constant supply of natural gas, which is converted to electricity in a chemical process with no combustion. The cells create little pollution: a relatively small amount of carbon dioxide. The major byproducts are water and heat, which can be used for heating.
A seven-kilowatt fuel cell will power the average home and provide enough heat to keep it warm in winter. Three cells have been installed at a B.N.L. laboratory building in a trial, and tests are planned at the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, Hofstra University in Hempstead and the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
"We have to have a variety in our engineering mix so that we're not dependent on oil and fossil fuels," Mr. Kessel said.
But life is rarely that simple, as any visitor will learn at the small model of a fuel cell in the Hicksville offices of KeySpan Energy. KeySpan owns the plants that provide electricity to LIPA customers; LIPA maintains the transmission lines.
More than a week before the Brookhaven ceremony, KeySpan announced its own fuel cell program, with one cell to be installed in late summer at the New York Institute of Technology in Westbury. This cell is also made by Plug Power, of Latham, N.Y., and distributed by GE MicroGen.
Now KeySpan is claiming exclusive rights to provide fuel cells on the Island.
"We have an agreement with GE that gives us the opportunity to test 30 of their units on Long Island," said David Manning, senior vice president of KeySpan Energy. "By the end of that testing cycle, we have the right to become the exclusive utility provider of these units."
But LIPA also believes it can win an exclusive agreement to distribute the cells after it tests six of the units.
"We do have an agreement with GE MicroGen for the testing of prototype fuel cell units, and that agreement does contain the possibility of an exclusive commercial relationship in the future," said Bert J. Cunningham, LIPA's vice president for communications. He added that any agreement would require approval by the utility's board and the state comptroller.
Deepening the confusion, GE MicroGen, whose brand name is on the cells, denies having an exclusive agreement with either company.
"Essentially, what KeySpan has is an agreement to test fuel cell systems," said GE MicroGen's president, Barry Glickman. "During the time they're testing equipment, KeySpan and GE MicroGen will continue discussing KeySpan's role in distributing fuel cell systems. It is similar to the agreement contemplated with LIPA."
Two things are at stake: local control of a technology that may replace central power plants and move the source of electricity directly into the home, and the profits that could come from such control.
While KeySpan pipelines would still be needed to feed household cells with natural gas or some other fuel, the cells themselves are much more reliable than power lines. The efficiency of the cells is also much higher than the turbine-powered plants that supply power now.
"Our initial unit produces electricity only, so we're not capturing the excess heat, so it operates at only 40 percent efficiency," said Plug Power's president and chief executive, Gary Mittleman. "When combined with a furnace and water heater, we're looking at 80 to 90 percent efficiency. Nowadays, power plants operate at 30 to 50 percent efficiency, but the heat escapes. We can capture that waste heat and put it to use."
There is wide agreement that the biggest obstacle to the cells is economic rather than technical. The cost of one seven-kilowatt cell is $7,000 to $10,000, a considerable amount even when weighed against increased efficiency and higher reliability. Mr. Mittleman said that in the next few years, Plug Power expects to bring the cost under $5,000. The key, he added, is mass production, a goal that has not yet been reached.
Still, the increased demand for power and the recently highlighted dependency on foreign oil have created an urgency for alternative fuel sources. The reliability of a cell installed directly in the home is also appealing.
Last winter, a power failure in New York City exposed the fallibility of backup generators in hospitals and other institutions. At Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, for example, AIDS research experiments were lost when the hospital lost power.
Environmental groups like Standing for Truth About Radiation, which has rallied to shut down nuclear research reactors at Brookhaven, are pleased with the fuel cell trials, which explains the presence of Ms. Brinkley and Mr. Cook at Mr. Richardson's ceremony: They are members of STAR.
"The future is now," Ms. Brinkley said from her folding chair. "It's here. This is a cure for energy needs and for a clean environment for future generations."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. John H. Marburger 3rd, right, director of the Brookhaven National Laboratory, explains fuel cells to Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, left, and Senator Charles E. Schumer. The cells are expensive but efficient. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (87%); NG (LSE) (87%); PLUG (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (87%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (87%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (87%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (87%); NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3699 ELECTRICAL MACHINERY EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, NEC (83%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (83%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY; PLUG POWER INC; LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; KEYSPAN ENERGY CORP; ENERGY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL GRID PLC (87%); PLUG POWER INC (83%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (57%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (92%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY; PLUG POWER INC; LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; KEYSPAN ENERGY CORP; ENERGY DEPARTMENT BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (92%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FUEL CELLS FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (94%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FUEL CELL MFG (88%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); HEATING OIL (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (69%); HEATING OIL PRICES (69%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (64%); 

PERSON: COTSALAS, VALERIE; RICHARDSON, BILL (SEC) BILL RICHARDSON (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



206 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Turnaround Specialist At Helm of Guild Hall

BYLINE: By BARBARA DELATINER 

DATELINE: EAST HAMPTON

 BODY:
IN her career as a curator and museum director in Alabama, Virginia, Minnesota and Connectictut, Ruth Stevens Appelhof, the new executive director of Guild Hall, earned a reputation as a turnaround specialist.
She took a limited local museum in Roanoke, Va., and transformed it into a cultural and educational center for the western part of the state. 
 At the Minnesota Museum of American Art in St. Paul, she sold its unused Art Deco building, deaccessioned the half of its collection that had nothing to do with "American art" to buy "American art," and turned its scattered galleries in an old courthouse into a permanent exhibition space. In Farmington, Conn., under her guidance, the little-known Theodore Hope Riddle Hill-Stead Museum, a moribund historic home-museum with what she called "an outstanding collection of French Impressionist paintings," became a regional cultural force.
Although Guild Hall, the arts center here, was not in dire straits when she took over in September, it did need "to look for fresh directions to amplify what we have achieved and help us be better hooked into our changing audience," said William Dryer, who headed the search committee that chose Ms. Appelhof.
After seven months on the job, Ms. Appelhof's presence is being felt as she sets about bringing "some serious revitalization" to the organization, which has an annual budget of $1.8 million. For the first time in about 20 years, Guild Hall is launching a formal capital campaign to renovate -- "I prefer 'restore,' " she said -- the building, which dates to 1931. The architect Robert A. M. Stern has been hired to spruce up the theater and figure out how the premises can be better used.
In an initial step, the original fireplaces in the two major galleries were rescued from behind plasterboard and period wainscotting was returned to the walls.
"The idea of expansion is debatable," Ms. Appelhof said. "I don't think we can enlarge our footprint, but perhaps we can move our collection storage off site and reconfigure the use of what space we have."
The mother of two adult children, Ms. Appelhof, in her "mid-50's," said that her "passion is education." She said she believes that "education eventually will be the umbrella or glue that holds it all together," and the position of education director has been made full time. There's a new director of development on board and the part-time public relations coordinator has become the full-time director of marketing.
Her input for the summer season has been minimal because most of it was set before the arrival of Ms. Appelhof, who says she is "committed to contemporary art and artists." The major shows, "American Impressionism: Treasures From the Smithsonian American Museum," June 17 through July 30, and "Willem de Kooning: In Process," Aug. 12 through Oct. 8, are both traveling.
In the future, said Ms. Appelhof, a native of Washington, D.C., who earned her undergraduate and graduate degress at Syracuse University and taught at Syracuse and the State University of New York at Auburn, she wants to "make exhibitions more scholarly and more accessible to all people with perhaps, talks in the galleries. Another thing we have to explore is the possibility of mounting exhibits that will then travel."
Similarly, while she was peripherally involved with the summer plans for the theater, she did not want to "turn it upside down." The same format in place last summer with days identified for specific programs is again being used. So Sundays will be devoted to the "American Musical Theater," Tuesdays to films about art and Thursdays to independent films provided by the Lincoln Center Film Society. There will be play readings by the Blue Heron Theater Company and the Abingdon Theater Company, and in the season's major departure, "Cabaret by the Sea," there will be a Friday and Saturday series of cabaret performances by such artists as Michael Feinstein, Betty Buckley and Patti LuPone.
The idea is "to build the vessel that holds this programming," she said. "And if the vessels aren't working you have to redefine the programs."
Her biggest challenge in trying to infuse Guild Hall with "new life, a renaissance after years and years of doing things the same way," she said is to find out "who Guild Hall serves." With that in mind she spent the month of March researching the community; talking to local organizations and running focus groups.
The East End community, Ms. Appelhof said, has changed since the 1970's when as a college student she spent the summer in the Springs with Lee Krasner, compiling a bibliography about the artist. Ms. Appelhof and her second husband, Gary Adamek, an executive with Ralston Purina, are building a house in the Springs. In the short time she has lived in rented quarters she has begun to realize just how different the area is. These days, retirees make up a sizeable, vocal segment of the population; year-round residents have increased, there is more ethnic, economic and racial diversity.
"We have to generate a new vision, reinvent ourselves around the people we serve," she said.
"I'd been on the job just a few weeks when I had a particularly bad day and one of the trustees noticed and told me not to get so upset. 'No matter what you do, Guild Hall will still be here,' he told me. I know that, but just the same I'd like to make a difference while I'm here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruth Stevens Appelhof, the new executive director of Guild Hall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ROANOKE, VA, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GUILD HALL MUSEUM (EAST HAMPTON, NY)

ORGANIZATION: GUILD HALL MUSEUM (EAST HAMPTON, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); BUDGETS (70%); 

PERSON: DELATINER, BARBARA; APPELHOF, RUTH STEVENS RUTH STEVENS APPELHOF (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



207 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Early Planning for a Final Resting Place

BYLINE: By ROBBIE WOLIVER 

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON STATION

 BODY:
IT'S Saturday morning and Route 110 is becoming congested with drivers window-shopping from their cars. DVD's from the Wiz? A printer from Office Max? A coffin from Direct Casket?
There it is, in a small strip mall, sandwiched between a check-cashing business and a one-hour photo shop: a store boasting "Caskets at wholesale prices." 
 Inside, an elderly woman speaks with the owner, Kevin Gray. She is coffin-shopping for her terminally ill brother-in-law. "The casket is not that important," Mr. Gray tells her. "It's just the vehicle to place the deceased in."
"My sister is under terrible stress now," the woman explained later in the parking lot. "There are so many different prices and styles. After being married 60 years, she'll be in no shape to figure these things out when he dies."
The woman had already spoken with McCourt & Trudden, a family-owned funeral home in Farmingdale operated by a longtime friend of her brother-in-law. Direct Casket was half the price, she said, hoping the home would match it.
"She came back to us and we showed her our prices were identical," said Joseph Trudden, the funeral home's owner and spokesman for the Nassau-Suffolk Funeral Directors Association. "They're planning the funeral with us."
The lucrative business of death has become highly competitive.
In the Direct Casket store, Diana Krall's soft jazz vocals stream through the bright, airy showroom as customers scrutinize the 20 different styles of coffins. In an open office in the rear, Mr. Gray, 41, from Dix Hills, patiently speaks with customers who are, for the most part, pragmatic and calm.
Mr. Gray's typical customers are 50-year-olds making arrangements for their parents. The older customers are the curiosity seekers.
There seems to be plenty of money around, as baby boomers in the United States prepare to inherit an estimated $10 trillion from their parents, and people in the business say it is time to think about planning for -- and prepaying for -- the parents' funerals.
Kelly Smith, spokesman for the National Funeral Directors Association, said: "Prepayment and preplanning is the big trend. There's about $23 billion in 'pre-need policies' now." Mr. Trudden has 300 such arrangements on file.
There are 108 funeral homes on Long Island. An average traditional Roman Catholic funeral costs about $7,500, including coffin, wake, Mass and service but not burial charges, Mr. Smith said. Traditional Jewish funerals have few extras -- no flowers, for example -- and according to Gutterman's Funeral Home in Huntington, a Jewish funeral averages around $5,000.
Mr. Gray, who has also started a funeral business, Direct Family Funerals Inc., said his average funeral was around $3,500, including coffin.
Funerals in the United States, including burial charges, make up a $25 billion-a-year business, covering about 2.5 million deaths, and price mark-ups at some funeral parlors can run as high as 350 percent, according to the Funeral Consumers Alliance.
The Department of Commerce says mortuaries have had the lowest bankruptcy rate of any type of business. That may be changing; the Loewen Group Inc., a large consolidator of funeral homes, filed for bankruptcy last June.
The economics of funerals produces much back and forth between funeral parlors and retail coffin dealers like Mr. Gray, who said, "Wholesale prices of coffins is often quadrupled and tax is added in to determine the pretax funeral-home price."
Mr. Trudden disagreed: "Maybe the ones he dealt with, but that's simply not true."
Consumer advocates say that at many mortuaries, renting a hearse for two hours, which costs as little as $25 to provide, is billed to the bereaved at $300 to $400 or more; flowers, grave vaults, monuments and thank-you cards are all marked up three times the amount of cost. With a cemetery plot, which can cost between $2,000 to $3,000, and all the associated fees, a funeral can be one of the largest family purchases.
The rise in burial costs is a big factor in the increase in cremations, which run from $500 to $1,500. Cremations account for more than 25 percent of funerals, and are rising 10 percent a year, the Funeral Consumers Alliance estimates.
Real estate prices also attract diverse views.
Although prepaying for a cemetery plot is generally regarded as wise, Bonnie Tippy, executive director of the New York State Funeral Directors Association, said Long Islanders need not fear a shortage. "There's plenty of space," she said.
Not so, according to Helen Sutter, manager of the 10-acre Plain Lawn Cemetery in Hicksville. "New graves will be closed out within a year," she said. "Mausoleum space will run out in five or six years." If families already have plots at Plain Lawn, she said, "we can bury three deep."
Many funeral directors inherited family businesses, and Mr. Gray's father, Larry, a former Borscht Belt comedian, introduced him to the world of coffins. As a teenager, Mr. Gray stocked shelves with embalming fluid, restorative wax and plastic goods ("to wrap the deceased so there is no leakage") at his father's warehouse.
But, as he soon realized, "The big money was in caskets."
In the mid-1980's, the younger Mr. Gray started his own business selling "kosher caskets" -- those that complied with strict Jewish regulations, for example, that they be wood. "I had a very nice run for a while," he said.
But then funeral-home consolidation took hold. Publicly owned companies like Service Corporation International began buying up family-owned businesses like the I. J. Morris and O. B. Davis homes. (The company now owns 4,000 funeral homes in 18 countries.) Many were Mr. Gray's customers. Data gathered by New York City indicated that funeral costs rose by 25 percent at homes that were taken over by such consolidators.
In 1994 the Federal Trade Commission amended the Funeral-Rule Law, prohibiting handling fees for coffins bought from retailers and thus opening a path for entrepreneurs.
Mr. Gray opened his first coffin store in California and by 1997 he had two others in Southern California and one in Long Island City. He now has stores in New Hyde Park, Brooklyn and Huntington Station. "I've spawned all the stores popping up now," he said.
Eighty percent of his customers are in immediate need, he said; the other 20 percent are planning ahead. Mr. Gray, who advertises a 24-hour emergency number and has a Web site (www.directcasket.com), said he received "about three to five customers a day."
He has no love for funeral homes. "I know all their tricks," he said, adding that he is "despised" by the funeral-home business for undercutting their prices.
"Funeral homes alter your frame of reference," Mr. Gray said. "They arrange their showrooms to manipulate customers, who are often in shock, into spending more than they want. They show you the cheapest casket in the most hideous manner, directing customers to higher-priced caskets."
To which Mr. Trudden responded: "That's complete hogwash. We know all our customers. Everyone's treated first class. Those retail stores can't provide our personal service."
Ms. Tippy, of the funeral directors' group, said that although "the competition is healthy for the consumer," the full service offered by funeral homes can not be matched by retail stores.
In Mr. Gray's 1,300-square-foot showroom, the Hamilton, a silver-colored steel casket, stands at the entrance, priced at $645. An I. J. Morris spokesman said that that home sold a comparable one for $1,495, but Mr. Trudden said his price was only about $5 more than Mr. Gray's.
Direct Casket's most expensive coffin, the solid bronze Dartmouth, sells for $3,695, and although Mr. Gray said it would sell for $7,000 at a funeral home, Mr. Trudden said he sold it for the same price as Direct Casket.
A 30-something woman, her father and aunt entered Caskets Direct recently to make arrangements for the imminent death of the young woman's mother. A curious Huntington couple in their 60's soon followed; they wanted to plan ahead so their "children wouldn't be burdened."
State law requires that prepayments be placed in interest-bearing trusts that are fully refundable at any time. When the party dies and the coffin is used, the coffin store or funeral parlor can keep the interest.
Whatever the financial arrangements, the competition will only grow. In a recent poll by the National Funeral Directors Association, 14 percent of those surveyed used the services of a retail coffin store, and because of high-profile stores like the one on Route 110, the trend seems to be growing.
It is not a very friendly competition.
"Retail stores are not there for you in a full-service way," said Mr. Trudden, who is also mayor of Farmingdale. "We're part of the community. We're there 24 hours a day, every day. Just don't die on a Sunday if you buy from a retail casket store."
Mr. Gray laughed off the criticism. "I see people on their worst day," he said. "I'm here to make this emotionally and financially easy for them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin Gray, of Direct Casket, discussing prices with Elsie Garrett, center, and Thomas and Dwayne Garrett, in cap. He charges less than most funeral homes. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Joseph Trudden, owner of the McCourt & Trudden funeral home in Farmingdale, says he can compete with discount casket stores. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DIRECT CASKET (CO)

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT CASKET (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUNERALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (89%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (76%); MATURE MARKET (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); RETAILERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (72%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (72%); SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: WOLIVER, ROBBIE; GRAY, KEVIN KEVIN GRAY (91%); JOSEPH TRUDDEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



208 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: The View From/New Haven;
Open to Suggestions On Vision for the Parks

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to visions of what New Haven parks might look like 10 years from now, there are plenty of visionaries.
Dozens of them attended the four meetings that were held in January and February to find out what residents wanted in their parks. The answers were many: paths connecting all the parks so people could in-line skate around the city; litter bags at park entrances so people could clean up after their pets, and after other, less thoughtful, humans; parks open after sunset during the summer. There were also socioeconomic themes: equal access to parks in all neighborhoods, and more youth programs. 
 Those at the meetings generally gave the department high marks, but said there was room for improvement. The city has hired a consultant, Leon Younger & PROS, to create a 10-year plan for the city's Department of Parks, Recreation and Trees.
Bob Schmalz, a New Haven alderman and president of the Board of Park Commissioners, said a master plan for the parks was done 40 years ago and updated about 20 years ago.
"We agreed that the parks had gone way down during the budget cutting of the early 90's," Mr. Schmalz said, adding that they have become a top priority for Mayor John DeStefano Jr. "Now we want to look at facilities, services and manpower. Should we do any privatizing? Should we acquire more land, as some areas are being cleared of buildings, to build tot lots and pocket parks?"
The plan has been ordered by the mayor and is being implemented by the director of the parks department, Robert D. Levine.
The city has 91 parks and playgrounds on more than 2,200 acres. Over the past few years, the city has restored all 25 percent of parks department jobs that were cut in the recession of the early 1990's, Mr. Levine said, bringing the current total to 104. The operating budget went from $3.5 million in 1993 to more than $5.7 million this year, while capital expenditures went from zero in 1993 to $2.6 million this year.
Hundreds of residents have participated in meetings, focus groups and a survey to determine what people want from their parks.
The focus groups revealed that New Haven residents value their parks, but that greater public awareness would enhance that value. Other suggestions from the focus groups included upgrading existing buildings before building new ones; gearing new programs toward families; addressing the city's waterfront, the most underdeveloped resource in the parks system; giving more attention to greenways and small parks in the inner city, and purchasing land whenever possible.
Chris and Rosemary Ozyck live with their young daughter in the Fair Haven neighborhood, on a street that parallels the Quinnipiac River. Ms. Ozyck said the two parks near her house, Quarry and Fairmont, are not well maintained and are often deserted. "I don't feel comfortable going there," she said. "Maybe the city doesn't think people care about the parks, but if it maintained them, then maybe people would care."
Mr. Ozyck has for years been a proponent of creating greenways to connect parks around the city, on the model of Frederick Law Olmsted's work in New York City and Boston.
He and his neighbors are focusing on the waterways as well. "The rivers have been underutilized throughout the city," he said, despite the recent success of the city's Riverkeeper program, which has enabled hundreds of people to go canoeing on the city's three rivers.
Mr. Ozyck and other Quinnipiac Avenue residents are urging the parks department to build and staff a boathouse on the Quinnipiac River. They said the area is underserved because it has no park ranger. They have even identified a potential site -- a parcel of land across the river from a small park that fronts the river on the other side. "You would have one park mirroring the other," he said.
Of the four meetings held around the city, the last one, at Wilbur Cross High School in the East Rock section, drew the largest, but also the least diverse, group of residents. That highlighted a problem the long-term plan hopes to address: how to get those who do not use the parks involved.
Peter Noble arrived near the end of the meeting, having just finished volleyball practice with the Latino youngsters he works with from the nearby Fair Haven neighborhood.
"You don't see these kids' parents at this meeting," said Mr. Noble, but he assured those in attendance that working-class Hispanic families want access to parks and recreational facilities for their children. He then described specific improvements to equalize access, with an emphasis on building a variety of playing fields.
A phone and mail survey of 950 residents is being conducted as part of the process, incorporating the issues identified in earlier phases.
"People who came to the meetings tended to be those who already are familiar with the parks, but the survey will look at both users and non-users," said Leon Younger, head of Leon Younger & PROS, the consultant. He said it was just as important to know why people are not using the parks as why they are.
"If the park system is only touching a small number of people, why is that? Is it that people don't feel safe? Don't they know about the programs, or do the programs not meet their needs?
"The park system needs to have amenities that are attractive to diverse groups," Mr. Younger continued. "Programs drive design. When you know what the program is, you design facilities to meet the needs of the community. But you have to ask them."
The consultants want a plan that incorporates the city's history and values, but also one that generates income.
"The consultants identified 45 possible revenue sources for the parks department," said Mr. Levine, the parks director, "and we are using only three or four."
Mr. Schmalz of the Board of Park Commissioners said he was excited about the process, which will culminate this fall with proposals to execute the plan.
"We are going to come out of this with not just a volume of pretty pictures to put on a shelf," he said, "but with a land-use plan."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, the New Haven Green. At left, Fort Nathan Hale Park. Below, Chapel Street Park. Inset, Terry McCool, a ranger at Lighthouse Point Park, showing a starfish to Mariell Trimachi. (Photographs by Don Heiny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MAYORS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); FOCUS GROUPS (84%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: ROSEMARY OZYCK (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



209 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Spano Urges Reducing Use of Pesticides in County

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
SAYING the first family's move to Chappaqua has brought unprecedented attention to Westchester, County Executive Andrew J. Spano declared last week that the county must now act to protect the quality of life that received worldwide exposure.
One way to do so, Mr. Spano said in his State of the County address Wednesday, is to reduce the use of toxic pesticides that threaten the county's drinking water. 
 "Westchester property owners use more pesticides on their lawns and gardens than residents from almost any other county," he said. "But our extreme pesticide use is, in fact, a health hazard, and we must take measures to reduce it."
He is drafting legislation to reduce or eliminate the use of toxic pesticides on county property and parkland, he said, adding, "We must get our homeowners to reduce their use of pesticides on their lawns, trees and shrubs."
This would be voluntary, and he said he would create a position of water master in the Planning Department to coordinate a public awareness effort and other measures to protect the quality of drinking water.
"When the President and Mrs. Clinton moved to Westchester, we were besieged by reporters from all over the world who only knew of our image," Mr. Spano said. "To some, we were a small bedroom community to the north of New York City. To others, we were the land of the rich and famous."
But that image is not the whole picture, he said, and Westchester should be a model for the rest of the country "in protecting our children, protecting our drinking water, protecting the health of our families and protecting our quality of life."
In his speech, Mr. Spano, a Democrat, sounded like a candidate for re-election as he outlined the accomplishments of his administration in its first two-plus years and set forth a blueprint for the rest of the four-year term. He renewed a pledge to reduce county taxes while continuing or beginning programs to fight tobacco and drug use and drunken driving and to protect children and the elderly.
"Our finances are excellent," Mr. Spano said. "Our economy is booming. Our environment is cleaner. Our cities are energized. And our quality of life is second to none."
Saying he had accomplished all this "by making government better, not bigger," Mr. Spano added: "Later this year, I will submit a budget that will for the first time in Westchester history reduce taxes for a third consecutive year. We are doing this while maintaining our triple-A credit rating."
The speech before an audience of about 150 in the legislative chambers at the County Office Building here lasted about 55 minutes and came after a 15-minute video presentation that dealt with what Mr. Spano saw as his accomplishments. The speech was also broadcast on cable television's News 12 and on the Internet.
When he ran in 1997, Mr. Spano promised to cut the county tax rate by 15 percent over four years, but so far he has only been able to cut it by 2.5 percent. A complex plan enacted last December to borrow money that the county has been awarded from lawsuits against the tobacco industry is expected to help Mr. Spano come closer to fulfilling his promise.
In his speech, Mr. Spano voiced many traditional Democratic themes. Here are some of the highlights:
*Personal safety. Mr. Spano said he would continue efforts to prevent gun violence, observing that he recently drafted legislation making it a crime to take a gun within 1,500 feet of a school. He described various outreach programs to persuade young people not to smoke and to prevent drunken driving and said the county has acquired narcotics-sniffing dogs to help the local police.
*Children. The county will establish a countywide child abuse investigative team, which will include police officers trained to recognize abuse. The county, he said, is also beginning a program to help unemployed fathers find jobs so they can pay child support.
*Seniors. Reporting that one in five Westchester residents is over 65, Mr. Spano said the county is in the midst of a two-year survey of the needs of the elderly. In the meantime, he vowed that the county would fight for reform of health maintenance organization procedures and lower costs for prescription drugs.
Democrats on the Democratic-controlled Board of Legislators praised the speech, seeing in it proof of their own accomplishments as well as that of Mr. Spano. Republicans said it was big on rhetoric and short on substance.
"He effectively summarized the administration and legislature's accomplishments," said Michael B. Kaplowitz, a Democrat from Somers. Vito J. Pinto, a Democrat from Tuckahoe, said he was pleased with what he heard about helping the elderly and protecting the environment.
But James Maisano, a Republican of New Rochelle, said it was a typical "state of" kind of speech in that it sounded like a campaign speech but lacked substance. Paul J. Noto, a Republican of Mamaroneck, the minority leader, said, "All these programs have a price tag, and there may come a day we don't have the money for them." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PESTICIDES (92%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); WATER QUALITY (72%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); BUDGETS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



210 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
10 Projects Will Produce 2,900 New Hotel Rooms

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
AS the economic boom keeps rolling across New Jersey, so does the march of hotels, despite a modest dip in occupancy rates and a supply that is growing faster than the demand for rooms.
Over the 12 months ended in February the occupancy rate in the state's hotels was 67.2 percent, down 2 percent from the previous one-year period. At the same time, while the supply of rooms grew by 2.8 percent, overall demand rose by only 0.6 percent, according to Smith Travel Research in Hendersonville, Tenn. The national occupancy rate for the same period was 63.1 percent, down 0.8 percent from the prior year. 
 Joseph A. Simonetta, the executive vice president of the New Jersey Hotel and Motel Association in Trenton, said the "huge spikes" of the past were not sustainable. Even so, the occupancy rate is high when compared with other states, he said, adding, "These are still good times for the industry."
And with the average daily room rate at $94.44, an increase of 3.9 percent from last year, developers continue to build, evidenced by 10 projects that are just opening, that are now under way or that will be by fall. Together, they will have a total of about 2,900 rooms.
Although more projects are planned, in New Jersey, as in the nation, "there are fewer projects entering in the pipeline," said Patrick Ford Sr., the president of Lodging Econometrics, a division of National Hotel Realty in Portsmouth, N.H. He said the slowdown started with the tightening of credit in the fall of 1998.
At first, there was a "significant drop-off," Mr. Ford said, and since then there has been a modest decline. "Money is getting more expensive," he said. "Projects that looked great 18 months ago may not pencil out today."
Other factors that will keep the industry in balance, analysts said, are the influx of companies expanding within New Jersey or relocating to the state, to take advantage of the number of new office buildings that are going up. Tourism in the state also has increased, generating $27.7 billion in revenue last year, up 6 percent from 1998. The number of overnight trips rose 10 percent to 43.8 million, according to state figures.
As might be expected, many of the new hotels are sprouting or being planned along highways, close to commercial centers or in resorts like Atlantic City, where the Boyd Gaming Corporation of Las Vegas expects to begin construction late this summer on a new casino with about 1,200 hotel rooms. Called the Borgata, it will be in the style of a Tuscan village.
The new hotels will also be near transportation hubs like Newark International Airport, where 10 hotels are planned. The largest project, being advanced by Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus, calls for a full-service hotel with as many as 550 rooms, a limited-service hotel with 250 rooms, a 50,000-square-foot conference center and a 150,000-square-foot office building. They will rise on a 55-acre site, 1,000 feet from the airport and accessible to Route 1 and 9.
Following the trend of the last few years, much of the new construction will be extended-stay and limited-service hotels. Typically, they do not have the large restaurants, shops and the abundance of meeting rooms found in full-service hotels. Ronald C. Witt, the president of Sweetwater Construction Corporation of Cranbury, put the cost of such limited-service hotels at $40,000 to $45,000 a room, which is 20 to 30 percent lower than the cost of building full-service hotels. "There's a rush to put up limited-service hotels," said Mr. Witt, whose company is involved in four such projects in the state, including a 146-room Hampton Inn on Route 9 in Woodbridge.
John A. Fox, a senior vice president at PKF, a hotel and real estate consulting concern in New York, said the proliferation of limited-service hotels caused supply to outpace demand. But, he said, since "markets are localized and site-specific," there are areas where such hotels are still warranted.
That is the thinking of Ocean Properties, of Portsmouth N.H., which is developing a 144-room Courtyard by Marriott in South Brunswick. "We look at the statistics, but don't live and breathe them," said Julie Jacques, the company's construction coordinator. "The Courtyard brand caters to business travelers, and this area is an opportune place for it."
THE hotel, to open in September on Route 32 near Exit 8A of the New Jersey Turnpike, is surrounded by millions of square feet of office and warehouse space, which Ms. Jacques expects to supply the hotel's weekday business. Because the hotel is also near the Forsgate Country Club, she said it should also be busy on weekends, with weddings and other social events.
In Edison, a growing office market in the center of the state, plans are advancing for a 146-room Courtyard by Marriott. "The bottom line is that New Jersey has some 156 million square feet of office space, so we go where the ducks are," said Buddy Watson, the president of Watson Hospitality Associates of Charlotte, N.C., the hotel's developer. "There are opportunities, but not all brands, or locations, will work."
The hotel will be part of a larger project on Woodbridge Avenue, near Exit 10 of the turnpike and Interstate 287, that will also include a 167,500-square-foot office building. "We see the hotel as a great amenity," said Robert Paulus, the president of Wick Companies of Woodbridge, which is developing the office building. Construction is to start this summer.
Markets close to Manhattan with large pools of corporate tenants are also attracting development, including full-service hotels. One is in Rutherford, where work is nearing completion on a 164-room Marriott Renaissance Hotel on Rutherford Avenue, near Routes 3 and 17. "The demand may be ebbing for limited-service hotels, but it's still strong for full-service lodgings," said Richard Branca, the president of Branca Properties of East Rutherford, which is developing the hotel.
At Veterans Boulevard and Highland Cross, also in Rutherford, plans are advancing for a 200-room full-service hotel as part of a two-building, 900,000-square-foot office complex to be developed by Lincoln Equities Group of Rutherford. The complex will rise across Veterans Boulevard from two occupied office buildings, with 565,000 square feet, that Lincoln already owns.
The Hudson River Waterfront in Jersey City is also attracting its share of activity. One hotel will open later this month and at least two full-service hotels are planned. Here, as elsewhere, the attraction is the millions of square feet of occupied offices.
The opening of the 189-room Courtyard by Marriott will bring the first hotel to the huge Newport mixed-used center at the northern end of the Jersey City waterfront. Now, the Lefrak Organization of Rego Park Queens, Newport's developer, is also planning a 415-room full-service hotel.
It is not alone. The Mack-Cali Realty Corporation of Cranford will begin development this summer on a 350-room Hyatt Hotel at its Harborside office complex at the southern end of the Jersey City riverfront. Reinforcing the hotel will be Mack-Cali's construction of a 185,000-square-foot office building for TD Waterhouse.
Mr. Ford of Lodging Econometrics said more attention is being given these days to downtown hotels, some of which are being built with public funds.
That is the case for two New Jersey projects. One is a $100 million mixed-used project, including a 200-room Benchmark hotel, that the nonprofit New Brunswick Development Authority will build with public and private financing in partnership with the Advance Group of Bedminster. The 15-story building will also include retail space, 198 rental apartments and the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development, part of Rutgers University. It will rise on a triangular site, occupied by an old hotel that will be razed, bounded by Livingston Avenue and George and New Streets. Construction is to start this fall.
In Trenton, the city plans to build a 197-room hotel and conference center at Lafayette and Warren Streets. It will be linked to the Trenton War Memorial auditorium.
The $46 million hotel will be financed mostly from the sale of bonds, said Robert Powell, the managing director at Nassau Capital Advisors of Princeton, a consultant to the city. He said construction of the hotel, to be operated by Marriott, will start by the end of April. When it is completed in 22 months, Trenton will no longer have the distinction of being the only state capital without a hotel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Courtyard by Marriott is rising on Route 32 in South Brunswick, near Exit 8A of the New Jersey Turnpike. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey: Ten hotel projects are under way, or about to be, including two each in Rutherford and Jersey City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BYD (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (61%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BOYD GAMING CORP (61%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); CASINOS (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); RELOCATIONS (66%); GAMING (63%); AIRPORTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



211 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 9; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

Lost at Sea
The strange story of Donald Crow hurst, an English businessman who took part in a 1969 sailboat race around the world in spite of being poorly equipped and wihout experience, has been has been told in an opera for solo voice called "Ravenshead."
It will be performed in Palmer Auditorium of Connecticut College in New London this evening at 7:30, and in Hartford at the Austin Arts Center of Trinity College on Friday and Saturday at 8. 
 Crowhurst recorded his voyage in two log books -- one containing the actual problems and mechanical failures he experienced, the other an idealized version of what he had hoped the journey would be. Six months after his departure, his empty boat was found adrift in the Atlantic.
Rinde Eckert wrote the piece as an exploration of the psyche of a man who could not reconcile his real and imagined selves. He will sing the role of Crowhurst, accompanied by the Paul Drescher Ensemble's Electro-Acoustic Band. The score was composed by Steven Mackey, professor of music at Princeton University, and the production was directed by Tony Taccone, artistic director of the Berkeley Repertory Theater in California.
Tickets at $15 to $25 may be reserved by calling Connecticut College, (860) 439-2787, or Trinity College, (860) 297-2199.
 
Dolphin Talk
Dr. Kathleen Dudzinski swims with dolphins and records their communications with each other on an audio-video device that she invented. Her research is featured in the new IMAX movie "Dolphins," at the Norwalk Aquarium through Sept. 28.
She will give a slide-talk at the aquarium on Wednesday at 7:30.
The 33-year-old Meriden native has been the recipient of awards from the National Science Foundation and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. She is vice-president of the Ocean Conservation Society and director of its Dolphin Communication Project, and she has written a children's book called "Meeting Dolphins: My Adventures in the Sea," published by National Geographic Books.
Tickets to the lecture are $10 for adults, $9 for seniors, and $8 for children 2 through 12. The aquarium is at 10 North Water Street in South Norwalk, and the phone number for tickets or more information is (203) 852-0700, extension 206.

Emancipated Spirit
"Birth Rite: Sex, Drugs and a Restless Soul," an autobiographical one-woman show, was written and will be performed by Elizabeth Hess at Real Art Ways in Hartford from Thursday through April 30. It follows her painful transition from a rigid Mennonite childhood in Canada through a series of self-destructive episodes as a teenager and a college student, in London and New York, eventually leading to her emancipation as a free spirit.
The play was directed by Richard Caliban, and Ms. Hess's unusual costuming is by Marc R. Aubin. It consists of a skirt, blouse, jacket and shawl that transmogrify in step with the various stages of her emergence from repressed little girl to sexually and spirtually reborn woman.
Performances are on Thursday through Saturday at 8, Sunday at 3. Tickets are $18. Real Art Ways is at 56 Arbor Street, and the phone number for reservations or more information is (860) 232-1006.

Mediterranean Jews
The little- known history of Mediterranean merchant Jews of the Middle Ages will be revealed in a talk by Dr. Mark Cohen, professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton University, next Sunday at 10 a.m. at Temple Israel in Westport.
Contracts and letters detailing a sophisticated international trade that formed the bedrock of middle-class Jewish life in the Mediterranean countries from the 9th to the 16th century were found in an old Cairo synagogue in the late 1800's but never translated and analyzed until now. Dr. Cohen will talk about the background of the so-called Geniza documents and their historical significance.
Admission will be $5 and include a light breakfast of Sephardic snacks and bagels and lox. Temple Israel's address is 24 Coleytown Road and the phone number for more information is (203) 227-1293.

Chinese Puppet Play
UConn's Repertory Theater is presenting the premiere of "The Bell," by Hua Hua Zhang, as its spring production. The puppet play, suitable for children from the age of 12 and adults of all ages, is drawn from Chinese mythology in which a bell is built by three people as a symbol of joy and unity in their community. But misunderstandings eventually destroy their utopian little world.
Ms. Zhang, a Master of Fine Arts candidate at UConn's unique Puppet Arts Program, trained in China and was one of the leading performers in the China Puppet Arts Troupe of Beijing.
She took part in the troupe's 33-city tour of the United States and Canada, and also additional tours of Thailand and Brazil in the 1990's.
The 13-member cast of "The Bell" was directed by Bart P. Roccoberton Jr., a professional puppeteer for 25 years, and successor to Frank Ballard as head of UConn's Puppet Arts Program.
Original music was composed by Liang Liang.
Performances are scheduled in the Studio Theater of the Drama-Music Building on Tuesday through Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., and next Sunday at 2 p.m.
Tickets are $14 and $15, with a $3 discount for seniors and a $5 discount for students. Call (860) 486-4226 for reservations or information.

Jazz in Ridgefield
Artt Frank has drummed with the best: Dizzy Gillespie, Miles Davis and, for 20 years, Chet Baker. Mr. Frank will be onstage at the Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield on Friday from 7 to 9 P.M., joined by Pat Morrisey on trumpet, Ken Barry on tenor sax, Chris Clarke on piano and Phil Bowler on bass. Earla Porch will attend to the vocals.
Mr. Frank removed himself from the jazz scene for four years after Chet Baker's death in 1988, but snapped back with the recording of "Looking for the Light," a tribute to Baker that his widow persuaded Mr. Frank to organize.
Tickets are $15, including wine. The museum is at 258 Main Street. Call (203) 438-4519 for reservations.

'Poorest of Poor'
"The Poorest of the Poor: The Unmet Challenge of Global Development" is the theme of three lectures to be delivered this week from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in Davies Auditorium, 15 Prospect Street, on the Yale University campus in New Haven.
The speakers will be Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Center for International Development at Harvard University, and Galen L. Stone, professor of international trade at Harvard's Department of Economics.
The first talk, " Globalization and the Poorest of the Poor: The Limits of Convergence," will be presented on Monday; "Health-Nutrition-Population Nexus: The Scope for Public Action" is scheduled on Tuesday; and the final program, "The Role of International Assistance: A Redesign of International Strageies," will be held on Wednesday.
The series is free. For more information, call (203) 432-3726.

Artistic Complex Simplicity
Alan Magee, an artist whom critics have described as one of America's finest representational painters and a craftsman whose drawings reveal the complex simplicity of everyday things, will lecture on "Skeletons, Stone, Kafka's House and a Paintbox" on Wednesday in New London.
His work is in several major museum across the country. He holds awards from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and from the National Academy of Design.
The program is to be held in the Cummings Arts Center of Connecticut College, 270 Mohegan Avenue, at 5:30 p.m. Admission is free.
 ELEANOR CHARLES 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC MAGAZINE (52%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (52%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (86%); CHILDREN (85%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); SAILING (78%); BOAT RACING (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); MUSIC (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); FILM (76%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); ANIMAL COMMUNICATION (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); THEATER COMPANIES (57%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: HUA HUA ZHANG (57%); MARK A COHEN (57%); ELIZABETH HESS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



212 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Fidelity: A Major Investor in Real Estate, Too

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
THE Financial District headquarters of Fidelity Investments, the mutual-fund giant that manages $1 trillion, couldn't be more modest. With no views, low ceilings and a rabbit warren of corridors, the nine-story building where the company was founded 54 years ago gives no hint of the real estate empire that is rising from Fidelity's financial success.
The family-owned and -run company, long downtown Boston's biggest office tenant, is now also poised to become one of its largest commercial property investors and developers. In all, the FMR Corporation, Fidelity's parent, occupies almost 10 million square feet in the United States and abroad, and it owns about seven million square feet. 
 In Boston, FMR owns 3.4 million square feet of downtown office space. Of that, Fidelity Investments occupies 1.25 million square feet, much of it in separate buildings surrounding its headquarters at 82 Devonshire Street. And it leases an additional 1.4 million square feet.
"Now, Fidelity is probably Boston's only major office tenant that is also a major investor and developer," said Thomas J. Hynes, the chief executive of Meredith & Grew Inc./Oncor International, a Boston real estate company.
Fidelity's boldest investment here is the Seaport Center, part of the real estate market emerging along the downtown waterfront. The 2.5-million-square-foot complex includes a convention center with office space that it redeveloped on an old fish pier in the 1980's, a two-year-old hotel and two office towers now under construction. The east tower will open this fall, and the west this summer.
The Seaport Center hotel and towers are the first new buildings that Fidelity has ever put up in Boston, and like most of its real estate investments, is self-financed with company profits. It obtained a 99-year lease on the 8.5-acre site from Massport, the state port authority, and an option on a site for an adjacent third tower.
Unlike its Devonshire Street headquarters, these three new buildings have spectacular views of the harbor and downtown Boston. In July, when the $140 million 16-story east tower opens, it will be the first new office building in downtown Boston since the early 1990's. All told, there are nine projects valued at about $3 billion being built or planned in the hot new Seaport District.
Seventy-eight percent of Fidelity's east tower has already been leased, said Peter E. Masden, the managing director of Pembroke Real Estate, the real estate investment unit of FMR. Given the strength of the office market -- the vacancy rate is 2.9 percent and rents are reaching into the $60-a-square-foot range -- Fidelity will not itself occupy space there. "The leasing is too good," Mr. Masden said.
Mr. Hynes of Meredith & Grew said: "Fidelity focuses on what's cost-effective in deciding between leasing, owning and occupying. And it has the in-house talent to do it all well."
Besides the lure of substantial returns -- downtown Boston real estate values went up about 70 percent in the last six years, city assessors say -- Fidelity's rapid growth has made the accumulation of real estate expertise imperative. It now has 30,162 employees, about third of them working in Boston. In 1990, it had 7,000 employees, two-thirds of them in Boston.
"Our real estate activity is driven by our jobs growth," said David C. Weinstein, Fidelity's chief of administration. "By the mid-1990's, we were bursting at the seams."
SINCE 1990, the company has bought, leased or built space in Manhattan -- 230,000 square feet in the World Financial Center -- and in Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Ohio, Kentucky, Texas, Utah and California, and abroad, in Canada, Bermuda, Britain, Germany, France, Japan and Hong Kong.
Addressing fears that Fidelity might someday abandon Boston, Mr. Weinstein said, "In an economy based on brainpower, we're in the catbird seat here with all the colleges and universities."
The economic slowdown in the late 80's and early 90's presented Fidelity some opportunities for cost-effective expansion.
For instance, during the mid-1990's, it bought 1.6 million square feet of space in Massachusetts and New Hampshire from the Digital Equipment Corporation. And it bought 350 acres to develop a campus in Smithfield, R.I., where it built a 250,000-square-foot office building and is now constructing another slightly larger building, both for its own use.
It's also building in office parks near Dallas and Cincinnati and in Walnut Creek, Calif. In London, it will soon complete construction of a $100 million six-story office building near St. Paul's Cathedral. Mr. Masden said that about half of it is already leased at rents that reach $140 a square foot.
In downtown Boston, where Fidelity still rents the same amount of space it did in 1990, it recently bought two buildings with a total of about 1.1 million square feet for its own use. Last year, it paid $187 million for 245 Summer Street, an 850,000-square-foot building where it now occupies some space and will soon have another 350,000 square feet for expansion. It renovated the second 220,000-square-foot building, 255 State Street, on the waterfront.
Fidelity was a pioneer in the Seaport District. With lenders and tenants still wary from the 1990's real estate crash, Fidelity's ability to self-finance gave it an advantage.
"We're independent of the business cycle," Mr. Masden said, explaining that Fidelity could move ahead with its own projects when other office developers could not find financing.
The company's heft is also helping the entire Seaport District to emerge as a new downtown neighborhood, said William F. McCall Jr., the chief executive of McCall & Almy Inc., a real estate advisory company in Boston. "Everyone knew that once they started building they'd finish without going bankrupt," he said. "Their investment gave the area a huge boost in credibility."
Also helpful is $20 billion in publicly funded infrastructure improvements now under way that have made the waterfront a prime investment opportunity. The Seaport Center sits at what will be a crossroads for a new transportation network. At its front door will be a new tunnel under the harbor, to Logan International Airport; an extension of the Massachusetts Turnpike; a rebuilt downtown expressway; a truck road; and new rapid transit line.
In 1985, after Fidelity was stymied in building a new tower on Devonshire Street, it teamed up with the John Drew Management Company on the Commonwealth Pier project. Together, they redeveloped the fish pier into 700,000 square feet of offices that Fidelity occupies and a 150,000-square-foot exhibition hall for trade shows. At the same time, Fidelity started negotiating with Massport to lease more adjacent land.
In the early 90's, as financially shaky developers were forced to shelve plans, Fidelity continued its site planning and ground-lease negotiations. By 1994, it started to focus on the design of the 247-room Seaport Hotel and broke ground a year later. In 1998, the hotel opened, and Fidelity started building the 505,000-square-foot east tower designed by Shepley Bulfinch Richardson Abbott Architects of Boston.
But for all its real estate activity, the company is still modest about its holdings. The only public acknowledgment of its impressive real estate portfolio is a demure 12-inch bronze plaque with a grayish patina that fades into the masonry around the entrance to its headquarters at 82 Devonshire Street. The plaque is simply engraved: Fidelity Building.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fidelity's headquarters at 82 Devonshire Street in Boston, right, and its Seaport Center complex, left, on Boston's downtown waterfront. (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Boston showing Fidelity Investments properties

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (94%); MEREDITH & GREW INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); 

PERSON: PETER E MASDEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



213 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES;
A Battle Over New Housing In Paterson's Historic District

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: PATERSON

 BODY:
The seven-acre tract of land along the Passaic River, with the ruins of an old brick factory and weather-worn timbers lying amid the knots of scrubby vegetation, does not look much like hallowed ground.
But it is in one of the state's most significant historic districts, and it is at the center of a dispute between the city and a group of preservationists that recently brought a suit against the planning board and a developer over how best to develop the land. 
 The site, stretching along a half-mile of riverfront here in the state's third-largest city, has been in disrepair for more than a decade, the target of vandals. For five years the city has been negotiating with the state and federal government to build 114 units of moderately priced housing.
But the preservation group, Paterson Friends of the Great Falls Inc. -- contending that the city has improperly approved a project that deviates from its redevelopment plan in terms of size and density -- insists something more befitting the cradle of American industry should be erected.
As legend has it, Alexander Hamilton saw the nearby Great Falls of the Passaic and envisioned a national manufactury. With that, Paterson was born as the oldest planned industrial city, and industries sprouted along the river, powered by the falls. Among them was Allied Textile Printing Corp. which gives the seven-acre tract its name, the A.T.P. site.
"Nobody disputes the fact that it's in a ruinous state, and nobody disputes the fact that it needs to be revitalized," said David Soo, a member of Paterson Friends and one of those who brought the suit.
"We believe that this project could be anywhere in Paterson," Mr. Soo said one recent morning as he toured the site, bounded by the Passaic River and Van Houten Street in the Great Falls Historic District. "And this singular, unique place offers an opportunity for economic development unlike anyplace else in the city or the state."
But Mayor Martin G. Barnes, who inherited the project from his predecessor, disagreed with Mr. Soo. "Is it the best possible development for that site?" Mayor Barnes said. "Probably not. But it's the best that we have."
Interviewed at City Hall, Mayor Barnes described the housing situation in Paterson as "bleak." Much of the housing stock is more than 100 years old, he said, while immigrants from Central and South America and Middle Eastern countries continue to flood into the city.
Indeed, officials here say the current Census will show Paterson's population has grown to more than 170,000, up from 140,900 in 1990. There are more than 3,000 vacant lots available for housing construction, but they are mostly small and scattered, planning and development officials say.
"This gives me some much-needed affordable housing," Mayor Barnes said of the ATP plan. "It gives me some ratables. It's the only seven-acre site I've got in the city. And it gets us to build up the downtown area because what we're trying to do is bring a community into downtown. Our downtown closes at 6 o'clock at night."
Under the first phase of the project, which will cost about $14 million, the developer, Regan Development Corporation of Yonkers, plans to put up 57 two-family houses of three and four stories as well as a cafe and public river walk, according to the developer and redevelopment officials.
The second phase, which will cost about $8 million, involves rehabilitating three old mills on Van Houten Street behind the first site to create 15,000 square feet of commercial space and 51 apartments. Part of second phase would also involve rehabilitation of the former Colt gun works -- also in disrepair on the A.T.P. site -- where Samuel Colt perfected his revolver.
The first phase was approved by the planning board here last July after it directed the developer to cut back on the number of two-family houses to 57 from 64 to provide some open space. It formalized the approval in February.
But Mr. Soo and others said there was nothing binding Regan Development to complete the second phase, a concern that the city disputed.
The Paterson Friends of the Great Falls, a group of about 50 residents and preservationists that was formed with the help of the Sierra Club, brought suit last month in state Superior Court in Paterson seeking to revoke the planning board's approval.
"Nothing in the city's redevelopment plan allows what is proposed to be built here," said Bruce D. Greenberg, a Newark lawyer who brought the suit. "The most significant deviations were the density of this development, the number of homes, the height of the buildings and what they call the floor area ratio -- the amount of the site that's covered by construction."
The suit contends that the planning board did not have the authority to approve these exceptions.
"None of that is true," Mayor Barnes said of these arguments. "You know, this is a real frivolous claim."
The suit also claims a deputy mayor who sits on the board should have abstained from voting because Mayor Barnes was an outspoken supporter of the plan.
But underlying the specifics of the complaints is the feeling it is not compatible with the historic character of the site.
Jeffery Jones, a councilman who represents the historic district, said the city had wrongly settled for what was convenient. "If any project comes before me, it's got to have more than just 'it's better than what was there,' " Mr. Jones said. "Anything's better than what's there, provided it gives you a lot more than what you have."
Jeff Tittell, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, said because of the new state development plan and "urban revitalization that's sweeping the country," the A.T.P. tract is "probably the most historically important site in New Jersey."
Mr. Tittell said, "It has a great opportunity to be the catalyst for revitalizing this whole historic district and bringing the types of facilities that are going to enhance the city and really make it a better place for all types of other redevelopment.
"And instead of that," he added, "they're just going to be putting in vinyl-sided modular housing."
Larry Regan, the president of Regan Development, took exception to that characterization.
"There is no vinyl on this project," Mr. Regan said. In a telephone interview, he said the buildings will be three and four stories. "The fronts and the sides will be 100 percent brick and the rear will be wood clapboard."
Mr. Regan, who said the project would bring the city $500,000 in ratables the first year, added that his company had been committed to Paterson for more than 20 years, having built 145 units of artists' housing in the rehabilitation of two historic factories in the 1980's.
"This is our business," Mr. Regan said. "We do historic redevelopment and we're in it for the long haul."
What especially troubles critics like Mr. Soo, who lives in one of the artists' houses closest to the A.T.P. site, is that the city never sought requests for proposals from other developers for other uses like a museum, conference center and other cultural or commercial activities.
Francis Blesso, a former redevelopment director for the city, said that there seemed to be no interest when the city took the site over for taxes in the early 1990's.
Allied Textile Printing had closed up shop in the 1970's; a developer had failed to get financing for a mixed-use project at the site in the mid-1980's, and the site fell into further disrepair.
"We were going to do a market analysis and go out and solicit proposals," Mr. Blesso said. "In the meantime, we had been talking to people about different ideas, but nobody stepped forward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As legend has it, Alexander Hamilton saw the nearby Great Falls of the Passaic River, above, and envisioned a national manufactury. With that, Paterson was born as the oldest planned industrial city, and such industries as Colt gun works, where Samuel Colt perfected his revolver, left, powered by the falls, sprouted along the river. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED TEXTILE PRINTING CORP (67%); GREAT FALLS INC (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PATERSON (NJ); PASSAIC RIVER; UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAND USE POLICIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; GREAT FALLS HISTORIC DISTRICT (PATERSON, NJ) HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); TEXTILE MILLS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE PATERSON FRIENDS (96%); MARTIN G BARNES (68%); DAVID SOO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



214 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 28; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Investing in Your Own Backyard: No Sure Bet for Growing Winners

BYLINE: By KATE BERRY 

 BODY:
THINKING about investing in a hometown mutual fund, one that focuses on shares of local companies?
If you live in San Jose or Seattle, you can find something. But if you're in Chattanooga or Buffalo or just about anyplace else in the country, don't even bother looking. 
 In the history of great mutual fund ideas, the regional mutual fund possibly won't rate more than a footnote. Parochialism, it turns out, is a selling point that cuts little ice with many investors, because arbitrarily restricting investments to companies in just one area can hamper returns -- or magnify trouble, as investors in Pacific Northwest-centered funds found out when Microsoft melted down last week.
Of the thousands of mutual fund portfolios tracked by Morningstar Inc., just 34 are United States regional funds, and only 13 of those had enough combined assets -- more than $30 million -- to qualify for The New York Times's mutual funds tables as of last week.
Most of the 34 invest in small and midsize companies, generally growth stocks not widely followed on Wall Street. Assets have grown from $1.15 billion at the end of 1995 to $4.57 billion on March 31.
As for returns, just 6 out of 34 outperformed the 25.73 percent average annual gain of the Standard & Poor's 500 index over the last three calendar years.
The regional funds take a geographical approach to following Peter Lynch's advice about investing in what you know. Their managers believe they know companies in their own backyards better than out-of-town analysts do.
"Being a consumer of the products and knowing people that work at local companies is important," said Bill Whitlow, manager of the $163.8 million Safeco Northwest fund in Seattle, whose largest holding should be easy to guess: Microsoft. The fund gained 54.2 percent last year, and 13.54 percent in the first quarter of 2000, but gave back more than half that gain last week.
Mr. Whitlow said he was a regular at Starbucks and a frequent flier on Alaska Airlines, and boasted that he could see the headquarters of Amazon.com from his office window. His fund has positions in all three stocks in a portfolio limited to companies based in five states: Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington.
INVESTORS who believe that a regional fund gives them a pure basket of home-baked goods may be surprised to learn that many regional fund managers eye companies outside their borders. Securities and Exchange Commission rules allow funds calling themselves regional to invest as much as 35 percent of assets outside their geographic area.
That wiggle room allows Safeco Northwest to branch into stocks like Intel. Though Intel's semiconductor operations in Hillsborough, Ore., near Portland, make the company the state's largest private employer, its headquarters are in Santa Clara, Calif. Another stake outside the region is Kroger, the supermarket chain based in Cincinnati, which the fund found itself owning after Kroger acquired the Oregon-based Fred Meyer chain last year.
"It's nice to have that flexibility," Mr. Whitlow said. "The whole point of it is so I can maintain a diversified portfolio."
The local heroes that turned in the strongest performances of the last five years were driven, naturally enough, by strong regional economies. But regional economic performance can swing sharply down as well as up: Safeco Northwest had an anemic 3.5 percent return in 1998 because its home turf was hit harder than other areas by Asian economic turmoil. And recent weeks have made clear the risk inherent in the best performers' heavy reliance on technology stocks.
Conrad B. Herrmann, lead manager of the $2.93 billion Franklin California Growth fund, which has its pick of 1,400 publicly traded companies in California, believes strongly in the home-court advantage. "We're a drive down the road to Silicon Valley, so we do have a leg up," said Mr. Herrmann. "It has an appeal to the pride of people who live and work in the state of California."
Mr. Herrmann points out that, standing alone, California would rank as the world's eighth-largest economy and its fourth-largest stock market. But though state spirit might be the motive to invest in many regional funds, Franklin California Growth, the top-performing regional fund over the last three years with an annualized return of 46.3 percent, attracts fewer than half of its shareholders from California. That offers proof that a regional fund can attract out-of-territory investors, but is also a sign that few investors consider supporting their local economy a top priority, at least when it comes to choosing mutual funds.
Edward S. Rosenbaum, director of research at Lipper Inc., said funds like Franklin California Growth wind up being sector funds in disguise, overweighted in technology stocks; by contrast, the region around Minneapolis yields a much more varied portfolio for the four funds that concentrate on that area.
"Like any specialized fund, whether by geography or sector, it's a step away from diversification," he said. "That makes it less appropriate for a substantial portion of your financial nest egg. But it can be a way to engage in the economic life of that region." (Of course, many investors already get all the exposure they need to their home region's economic vicissitudes simply by living and working there, and might be better served by a fund that invests anywhere but their region, just as many financial planners advise against putting retirement savings in the stock of one's employer, to avoid an overconcentration of risk.)
BEGUN in 1991, the California Growth fund roughly tracks an index of the state's 250 largest companies ranked by market capitalization, and is rebalanced each quarter. Two-thirds of its assets are in networking and semiconductor companies, digital hardware makers and biotechnology stocks.
"We look at where market flows might be going, so we can acknowledge where money is shifting," Mr. Herrmann said by telephone from the headquarters of Franklin Templeton in San Mateo, Calif.
California Growth was an early investor in Netscape and Yahoo but trimmed its stakes in quarterly rebalancings after they soared to high valuations. As of last week, Internet service companies made up about 12.5 percent of the fund's 150 stocks, up from 6.5 percent in early 1999.
These days Mr. Herrmann likes JDS Uniphase, the optical-networking products maker based in San Jose; Versata, a software and service provider in Oakland; and Vitria Technology, an e-business concern in Sunnyvale. Other holdings include Applied Micro Circuits, a San Diego maker of integrated circuits for telecommunications applications, and Applied Materials of Santa Clara, a supplier of chip-making equipment.
Whether or not the regional funds make sense from an investment perspective, they are certainly suited to one purpose: They give the sales forces at regional brokerage firms and investment banks a product to pitch to local customers that fund giants like Fidelity and Vanguard do not offer. Critics say that makes them pure marketing gimmicks.
"They're kind of silly," said Russel Kinnel, director of fund analysis at Morningstar. "Generally, it doesn't really make sense to limit an investment to an artificial border. Why settle?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pride of Place"
Stock mutual funds that focus on a single state or section of the country are slowly growing in number and assets.
 
Graph shows number of funds and total assets since 1995.
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (80%); MORN (NASDAQ) (70%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (80%); MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); AIRLINES (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (61%); 

PERSON: BERRY, KATE BILL WHITLOW (57%); CONRAD B HERRMANN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



215 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Avoiding the Land of the Giants, Five Managers Harvested Gains

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
MOST mutual fund investors opened the new century with smart gains, though well below the double-digit returns posted in the final quarter of 1999. Those who generally steered clear of the giants in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index often outperformed in a stock market led by technology and smaller issues.
That was the winning approach for the five professional money managers who built hypothetical retirement portfolios for The New York Times. All five beat the S.& P. 500, which gained 2 percent during the first quarter, and one beat the average of 6.5 percent for diversified domestic equity funds tracked by Lipper Inc. 
 A common theme among the five managers was unease about the market's recent violent swings. In response to that uncertainty, all looked to diversified portfolios and long-term perspectives.
Technology stocks were a boon to Jack A. Brill, vice president of Natural Investment Services in San Diego. His portfolio of "socially responsible" funds was the leader for the quarter, with a gain of 6.6 percent, aided by stakes in Citizens Emerging Growth, up 23.07 percent, and Calvert New Visions, up 18.54 percent.
For the second quarter, Mr. Brill is dropping Ariel Appreciation, a small- to mid-cap value fund. A sliver of the freed assets will be added to Citizens Emerging Growth; the remainder, representing 4 percent of the overall portfolio, will go to Calvert New Visions, a small growth fund he added in the first quarter.
"During these turbulent times, it is more important for investors to be well diversified," he said. "Market timing becomes much more difficult. Taking a long-term perspective is crucial."
The next-strongest portfolio last quarter was the one chosen by Eric M. Kobren, president of Kobren Insight Group and editor of Fidelity Insight in Wellesley, Mass. Mr. Kobren said his company was staying "cautiously optimistic" about the stock market.
"Valuations remain at historically high levels for certain areas of the market," he said. "However, the economy remains in very good shape, and corporate profits are growing. And when you eliminate the technology sector, stocks are much more reasonably priced."
ALTHOUGH the short-term volatility in the market "is unnerving," he added "investors are well-advised to maintain a diversified portfolio and not get unduly concerned about the wide daily swings we've been experiencing."
Mr. Kobren's portfolio, which contains only funds from Fidelity Investments, gained 5.95 percent for the quarter. He rode the hot technology sector with stakes in Fidelity Aggressive Growth, up 14.42 percent, and Fidelity Small Cap Stock, up 12.59 percent. For the second quarter, he is shifting 5 percent of the portfolio out of Aggressive Growth, reducing it to 15 percent, and into Fidelity Value, raising that fund's weighting to 25 percent.
With a cumulative portfolio gain of 217.47 percent since the contest began in July 1993, Mr. Kobren has almost caught up with the longtime leader, Sheldon Jacobs, who edits the No-Load Fund Investor in Irvington, N.Y., and whose cumulative return is 226.75 percent. Since the start, the five portfolios have returned an average of 189.65 percent, compared with 281.49 percent for the Vanguard 500 Index fund, which tracks the S.& P.
The performance of the hypothetical portfolios is tracked each quarter by Lipper Inc., the research firm in Summit, N.J. The figures exclude sales charges and transaction costs -- as well as taxes, because most retirement money is held in tax-deferred accounts.
The five managers may choose from among all funds open to new investors, and may shift money each quarter. The portfolios are meant to grow until July 2013, some 20 years after the competition began.
RUSSEL KINNEL, director of fund analysis at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago, posted the third-best return for the quarter -- 4.86 percent, buoyed by a large stake in MAS Mid Cap Growth, which was up 13.34 percent.
Mr. Kinnel, who took Susan Dziubinski's place in the contest in January and has overhauled the portfolio, is making no changes for the coming quarter. "I should at least be able to stick with them for three months," he said.
Mr. Kinnel is sanguine about the market: "We've watched a big rally in the Dow, and Nasdaq stocks are getting barbecued, but so what? The average value fund is still in the red for the year, and the average growth fund has double-digit gains."
Harold Evensky, an investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla., also plans no changes to his broadly diversified portfolio, despite placing fourth during the first quarter with a gain of 4.98 percent.
"The flip-flop in leaders and laggards continues, just as one would expect with a diversified portfolio in a turbulent market," Mr. Evensky said. "Because no one can predict what market to be in, the game plan continues to be managing risk as well as return."
Mr. Jacobs's portfolio trailed the pack for the quarter, gaining just 4.62 percent. Despite an impressive showing by T. Rowe Price Science and Technology, up 11.57 percent, his return was pulled down by stakes in Marisco Focus, up just 0.21 percent, and Strong Asia-Pacific, up 0.67 percent.
Looking ahead, Mr. Jacobs is cautious.
"It's time to take something off the table," he said. "Speculation is rampant, investors are complacent and many valuations in the new economy are far too high. The risk-reward relationship for equities isn't nearly as favorable as it was in the 90's."
As a result, he is redirecting 15 percent of his portfolio out of three stock funds, Vanguard Total Stock Market Index, Marsico Focus and Janus Olympus, and into a new position in Vanguard Money Market Prime. But he is standing pat with his Europe and Asia funds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart: "How the $50,000 Investments Fared"
Quarterly and cumulative performance of hypothetical retirement savings portfolios created and managed for The New York Times by five investment advisers. Each began with $50,000 on July 7, 1993. Weight refers to the percentage of the portfolio's assets invested in each fund. Figures are preliminary and do not reflect sales charges, if any. Russel Kinnel now manages the portfolio begun by John Rekenthaler.
 
SHELDON JACOBS
Editor of the No-Load Fund Investor, Irvington, N.Y.
 
ERIC M. KOBREN
President of Kobren Insight Group and editor of Fidelity Insight in Wellesley, Mass. This portfolio invests solely in Fidelity funds.
 
JACK A. BRILL
A San Diego investment adviser who created a socially responsiblefund portfolio.
 
RUSSEL KINNEL
Editor of Morningstar Fund Investor, Chicago.
 
HAROLD R. EVENSKY
An investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla.
 
Chart shows funds held last quarter for all five investors.
(Source: Lipper Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%); LIPPER INC (70%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); ETHICAL INVESTING (73%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; JACOBS, SHELDON; KOBREN, ERIC M; BRILL, JACK A; KINNEL, RUSSEL; EVENSKY, HAROLD R ERIC M KOBREN (74%); RUSSEL KINNEL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



216 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Bargaining With Banks

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY JR. 

 BODY:
Tired of settling for whatever interest rate your local bank pays on certificates of deposit but hesitant to send your money thousands of miles away to get a better one? The creators of Shoprate.com, in Winchester, Ky., propose to resolve your problem.
Shoprate.com has started a free online auction site that lets consumers anonymously list how much they have to invest, for how long and at what desired rate. Banks then respond with bids for the business, and Shoprate sends e-mail messages listing their proposed terms. The investor chooses the best bid and completes the transaction directly with the bank. 
 Unlike other name-your-own-price businesses, including those for airline tickets, there is no obligation to accept any deal, even if it is exactly what you asked for. "This new method of negotiating C.D. rates brings down the curtain of uncertainty and intimidation many consumers experience when dealing directly with financial institutions," said Tracy Trimble, 32, a former banker who is president of Shoprate.com.
Still, the process may seem clumsy to consumers accustomed to the immediacy and excitement of an auction site like eBay. One person, for example, seeking a 7 percent rate on $5,000 for 12 months, waited for several hours on Thursday without getting a bid; another, seeking a 5.75 percent rate on $5,000 for nine months, received one matching bid.
The start-up makes its money by charging banks participation fees of $145 to $295 a year. So far, only 15 banks have signed up, and only $6 million has been offered by consumers. Even so, the idea seems compelling, said Warren G. Heller of Veribanc, a Wakefield, Mass., company that rates banks for soundness. "Look where Priceline.com's gotten to." ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCLN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SHOPRATE.COM PRICELINE.COM INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHOPRATE.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); KENTUCKY, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ROBERT D HERSHEY JR (61%); WARREN G HELLER (61%); TRACY TRIMBLE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



217 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Solid, but Short-Lived, Gains for U.S. Funds

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
FIRST the good news.
The average United States diversified mutual fund performed strongly during the first quarter of 2000, posting a return of 6.5 percent. Technology funds were especially strong, up 18.54 percent, as were growth funds specializing in companies of all sizes. 
 Next the bad news. Unless an investor sold those funds the day the quarter ended, their gains have slipped away, thanks to the stunning sell-off in technology stocks over the last week. In a dizzyingly fast move, investors fled new-economy technology and Internet companies, with their big dreams and scant profits, for the safety of solid old-economy titans like Ford and Procter & Gamble. That left technology-heavy mutual funds, which had big gains last quarter, suddenly staggering.
So while the scenery in the rearview mirror is looking great, many an investment vehicle was found last week wrapped around a roadside maple tree.
Now mutual fund shareholders are trying to decide what lies ahead: Will the market continue to turn away from technology stocks, many of which are still hideously expensive by any traditional valuation measures, until their price-to-earnings and price-to-sales ratios are more in line with historical averages? Or will it quickly forget the brutality of this correction and focus again on the huge sales growth posted by many technology and Internet companies?
Unfortunately, those questions do not have easy answers. The shocking decline in the Nasdaq composite last Tuesday, when the index fell more than 13 percent in just a few hours, demonstrated that when expensive stocks fall, they can fall far and fast. If you own, or wish you owned, the top-performing funds of the last quarter, you need to accept that very real risk.
On the other hand, investing in the companies that are world leaders in technology, communications and the Internet has been hugely profitable for the last decade. And as growth fund managers like to remind their shareholders, the best time to buy those stocks has been when they are "on sale," which is a polite way of saying "down." With many technology and Internet companies expected to report strong growth in first-quarter earnings, now is exactly the wrong time to get out of technology, growth managers argue.
"Relative to old-economy stocks, these are still expensive, but I think these are the stocks people are going to want to own, and they will come back to them," said Bill Keithler, manager of the $10 billion Invesco Technology fund. Mr. Keithler's fund rose 26.15 percent in the first three months of the year, making it one of the quarter's better-performing technology funds. But it fell 10.09 percent on Monday, the first day of the second quarter, and an additional 1.21 percent on Tuesday.
"You have ups and downs, and it's going to be a volatile asset class," said Quint Slattery, manager of the $300 million PBHG New Opportunities fund, an ultra-aggressive growth fund that buys mainly technology companies. Just how volatile? Mr. Slattery's fund gained 533 percent in the 12 months ended March 31, including 42.37 percent in the first quarter. But it fell 16.41 percent on Monday and an additional 4.4 percent on Tuesday.
Invesco Technology and PBHG New Opportunities were hardly alone in their volatility. In general, the more a fund gained in the first quarter, the more it suffered as April began, according to statistics from Morningstar Inc.
The average large-capitalization growth fund, for example, rose 8.81 percent in the first quarter, then fell 1.78 percent last week through Thursday. Mid-cap growth funds were the quarter's best performers among diversified United States stock funds, rising 17.33 percent, according to Morningstar; they were down 4.11 percent in the first four days last week. For pure technology funds, the reversal was even sharper. Technology funds rose 18.54 percent for the quarter, then fell 4.89 percent last week through Thursday.
ON the other hand, funds that performed poorly during the first quarter rebounded with a vengeance last week. Funds that buy large-cap value stocks were the weakest performers for the quarter among diversified United States stock funds, gaining just 0.08 percent, on average, according to Morningstar. That changed last week, as the average gain was 1.3 percent through Thursday.
For mid-cap value funds, the story was similar. They rose 1.93 percent in the first quarter, second-worst among all diversified fund groups tracked by Morningstar, but emerged unscathed from last week's gyrations with a four-day gainof 0.08 percent.
Kent Simons, manager of the $2 billion Neuberger Berman Focus fund, a value-oriented offering that nonetheless rose 12.48 percent in the first quarter, said the recent turn toward more reasonably priced stocks was inevitable, given how expensive many technology companies had become. Although he is a value investor, Mr. Simons does not count himself as a technophobe. His fund owns shares of several technology companies, including Oracle and Texas Instruments, which have proved to be very good long-term investments.
Even so, Mr. Simons, who said he bought Oracle and other software companies in early 1999, watched in dismay in the first quarter as they soared to valuations he did not think their fundamentals could justify. Some new, fast-growing technology companies, meanwhile, were rising even faster, despite big losses and tiny sales.
"Wall Street, in my opinion, has always gone to extremes," Mr. Simons said. "But I think you're seeing greater extremes than in the past. A lot of the buying that was going on was pretty uninformed, and what's happened in the last couple of weeks is that the markets said, 'Oops -- I don't think the emperor has any clothes.' "
Technology funds, of course, were not the only strong performers in the first quarter. Health and biotechnology funds also surged, gaining 15.92 percent, on average, although many biotechnology funds fell sharply during the last two weeks of March as investors realized that many companies in the industry are, at best, years from profitability. Energy and natural-resources funds were the third-best sector, up 13.45 percent as oil prices rose sharply, with oil-company profits expected to follow.
On the other hand, financial sector funds had a weak return of 0.17 percent, on average, as investors worried that rising interest rates would hurt profits at banks and securities firms. Rate fears also crimped real estate funds, which gained an average of 1.78 percent. And gold continued its two-decade history of poor returns, with the average precious-metals fund down 15.23 percent.
COMPARED with the thrill ride that United States funds offered in the first quarter, the path of international stock funds was relatively sedate. On average, European stock funds offered the best runs of international funds, up 8.1 percent, as economies improved across the Continent. Many other international funds also finished in the black. Funds that invest worldwide gained an average of 5.14 percent, while Latin American funds were up 4.25 percent and funds investing in Asia outside Japan rose 3.56 percent.
But Japanese stock funds fell 3.26 percent as Japan's economy was stuck in neutral. The country's Nikkei index of 225 issues finished the quarter at 20,337.32, still down nearly 50 percent from its peak of a decade ago and a sobering reminder that bear markets sometimes need more than a week or two to run their course. As the Nasdaq swings ever more crazily, mutual fund investors in the United States might do well to keep that lesson in mind.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Cartoon (Randy Enos)(pg. 17)
 
Graph: "Growth Over Value"
Despite an end-of-the-quarter jolt, growth funds held a commanding performance lead over value funds across all market capitalizations in the three months ended March 31.
 
Chart shows growth, blend and value for large-cap, mid-cap, and low-cap funds.
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX BILL KEITHLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



218 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: CITY LORE;
When the City Sits for Its Portrait

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
NO one would call New York, with its grit and clamor, "pretty as a picture." But the city has always been a subject for art, and that's the idea behind "Painting the Town: Cityscapes From the Museum of the City of New York," which opens Thursday at the PaineWebber Art Gallery in Midtown Manhattan.
All 70 paintings are drawn from the deep and eclectic holdings of an Upper East Side museum founded in 1923 to "preserve a city's remembrances." And the show, with images of the five boroughs ranging over almost two centuries, pretty much covers the local waterfront. 
 It does so literally in the case of a mid-19th-century painting titled "View of Hudson River," which offers a panoramic sweep of a now-vanished Manhattan beachfront. The picture is the work of Victor Gifford Audubon, son of the naturalist. And a tiny dark figure perched on a rock in the foreground may be the great John James himself, checking out gulls near his home, which once overlooked the river at what is now West 155th Street and Broadway.
Manhattan still offers its share of bucolic vistas, Central Park being the grandest, and Bryant Park -- its airiness neatly caught in a sweet 1914 painting by Theresa Bernstein -- one of the most exquisite. But a cityscape, to be strictly true to its name, has to be about more than nature doing its thing. It must include man-made structures, and many of these paintings do.
Structure is really the whole story in the jaunty cubistic "Escalator" (1943-44) by Mari-Louise Van Esselstyn. But elsewhere nature and culture balance out, in life and in art, as they do in that arching poem of cable and stone called the Brooklyn Bridge, and in Warren Shepherd's eyewitness painting of the bridge's fireworks-dazzled opening in May 1883.
What Shepherd didn't paint was the disaster that occurred the next day: a dozen people were crushed to death by a stampeding crowd of sightseers when a cry went up that the bridge was collapsing. Other artists, however, have relished their role as street-level reporters, even as they invoked artistic license to embroider the nitty-gritty a bit.
Two Manhattan painters, James Cafferty and Charles G. Rosenberg, for example, captured the drama of the worst financial panic of the 19th century in a work with the you-are-there title "Wall Street, Half Past 2 O'Clock, October 13, 1857." (They even bring Cornelius Vanderbilt, reputedly the richest man in the world at the time, into the fray.)
Closer to our day, Peter Hopkins depicted a violent clash between unemployed workers and city police that took place in Union Square in 1930. The event, which he watched from his studio window above the square, made an unforgettable impression on him. He painted it from memory 17 years later.
Memory of the past is the theme of "Painting the Town." But the show, which can be seen at the gallery, at 1285 Avenue of the Americas (between 51st and 52nd Streets), through June 23, is also about the present. The river and the parks are, after all, still here. So are the fireworks and tensions. So is the art. At the moment there's a big exhibition of dozens of the city's bright young artists at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens. Its title: "Greater New York." And in "Painting the Town" we get to see what was hot and what was at least warm yesterday. It turns out, on the whole, to be a pretty picture after all.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SETTING SAIL -- "View of Hudson River," c. 1840-45, by Victor Gifford Audubon.; UP AND AWAY -- "The Escalator," 1943-44, by Mari-Louise Van Esselstyn.; IN THE CANYON -- "Wall Street, Half Past 2 O'Clock, October 13, 1857," by James Cafferty and Charles G. Rosenberg.; TAKING THEIR EASE -- "Bryant Park," 1914, by Theresa Bernstein. (Paintings From the Collection of the Museum of the City of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ART PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



219 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: STRATEGIES;
Monitoring Trades for the Good of a Fund

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
BIG BROTHER is watching. But don't worry, it's all for the good of your foreign stock fund.
In this case, the person doing the watching is one David Jones, a vice president at the FMR Corporation, parent of Fidelity Investments. His job includes tracking down investors who use a particular day-trading strategy that can damage the returns of funds that invest in foreign markets. 
 He's serious, too. "We will find investors who try this kind of strategy and they will be asked to leave," Mr. Jones said in a telephone interview.
Many investors, no doubt, will be surprised to learn that anyone cares about their mutual fund trades, much less wants to watch them. But most fund companies -- not just Fidelity -- spend a lot to monitor the trading patterns of their investors. And, like Fidelity's Mr. Jones, they'll ask you to take your business elsewhere if they decide you're a day trader taking advantage of their funds.
A day trader can exploit many mutual funds because of how they calculate their net asset values -- the prices at which they can be bought or sold. With just a few exceptions, funds calculate their net asset values once a day, at 4 p.m. Eastern time, based on the closing trades of the securities they own. That method gives day traders a couple of unfair advantages -- and one that pertains particularly to foreign funds.
When foreign stock and bond funds based in the United States price themselves at 4 p.m., they are using prices that are hours out of date. Funds that invest in Japan, for example, are using prices that are fully 14 hours out of date. That's because the Japanese markets close at 2 a.m. Eastern time.
The stale pricing gives shrewd traders a chance at easy profit. All they have to do is find news in the 14-hour window that can be expected to move the Japanese stocks up or down, then buy or sell just before the close of the United States markets.
Imagine, say, that after the close of the Tokyo market on a particular day, OPEC announces that it will increase production sharply; as a result, the price of Dubai crude plunges. The news, of course, is bullish for the Japanese economy, because the nation depends completely on imported oil -- and it's almost a sure bet that the Nikkei 225 index will rise sharply when the next session opens. By buying, say, the Warburg Pincus Japan Growth fund in the United States at the net asset value at 4 p.m., a day trader can, in effect, buy Japanese stocks at the prices that existed before the OPEC announcement.
It is the closest that investors will probably ever come to being able to act on Will Rogers's famous advice: "Buy some good stock and hold it till it goes up. If it don't go up, don't buy it."
Of course, not every event is as sure a bet as an OPEC announcement when it comes to moving the Japanese market. But day traders have discovered that daily fluctuations in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index work almost as well as an indicator. Much of what moves the S. & P. moves Japanese stocks, too. Movement in the S. & P. 500 on one day is often mimicked the next in the Nikkei 225.
Exploiting the correlation is simple. Buy a Japanese stock fund on days when the S. & P. 500 rises, and move to cash on days when the S. & P. drops.
How profitable can the strategy be? Plenty, according to research by two finance professors from the Yale School of Management, William Goetzmann and K. Geert Rouwenhorst, and one of their graduate students, Zoran Ivkovich.
They applied this simple strategy to 17 Japanese stock funds based in the United States from the beginning of 1990 through July 1998. Ignoring the effects of loads, or sales charges, for those funds that charge them, they found that the approach beat a buy-and-hold strategy by an average of nearly 27 percentage points a year, albeit without taking into account taxes or trading costs. Even better, risk was reduced sharply, because the strategy meant being in the market only about half the time.
But Professor Goetzmann and his colleagues didn't confine their research to Japanese funds. They applied the idea to nearly 400 foreign stock funds of various stripes based in the United States. Not surprisingly, the strategy was most profitable for funds whose stocks trade principally in markets, like Japan's, whose market hours don't overlap with those in New York. The strategy was only marginally profitable when applied to Latin America, whose market hours largely coincide with New York's.
The easy day-trading profits aren't free, however. The foreign funds' long-term shareholders pay for them -- to the tune of around $50 million a year, according to Professor Goetzmann's estimate.
The cost would no doubt have been greater, but the strategy has been relatively unknown -- at least until recently. Another mitigating factor has been fund company "security officers" like Fidelity's Mr. Jones.
But there is evidence that more day traders are slipping through the fund companies' defenses. Mr. Jones concedes that Fidelity has "seen an increase in short-term trading of our international funds recently." And the Securities and Exchange Commission reports similar complaints from other fund families.
One way that day traders can escape detection is by investing through a mutual fund marketplace like Charles Schwab's OneSource, which gives them anonymity because Schwab pools all its customers' investments in a particular fund into one account. A bigger potential problem for the funds comes from corporate retirement plans, which not only aggregate all plan members into one account but also provide a tax-free vehicle for the day traders, removing a key drag on the strategy's profitability.
OneSource and other fund marketplaces charge a fee for short-term trading. But Professor Goetzmann has found that such fees do not cut profits enough to dissuade the day traders' moves. He says fees for round-trip transactions, buying and selling a fund, would have to total 30 to 45 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to make the day-trading strategy unprofitable.
But on an investment of $100,000 or so through OneSource, for example, a round-trip transaction can cost as little as 3 basis points.
On March 1, Fidelity announced that in order to curtail short-term trading, it would begin imposing a redemption fee of 100 basis points on investments in its international stock funds that are held for less than 30 days. A number of other fund companies have announced their intentions to levy such fees, which are paid back into the funds themselves, compensating long-term shareholders for the costs of the day trading.
AN alternative solution for funds would be to calculate net asset values differently. Professor Goetzmann and his colleagues propose a complex solution that in effect "freshens" the stale prices of foreign stocks after trading has stopped in their home markets. They say funds already have the authority to use such a system, since the S.E.C. allows funds to use what is known as "fair value pricing," in effect, determining the value of their holdings on a basis other than a stock's closing trades. The funds have used this method, although rarely, to price securities during times of foreign market turmoil.
Until funds adopt a procedure like Professor Goetzmann's, it may make sense for long-term investors to steer clear of any foreign stock fund that doesn't discourage short-term trading. Of course, front- or back-end loads, or sales charges, are one way to discourage such short-term trading, but they constitute another kind of price tag. No-load funds that charge redemption fees on short-term trades are far preferable.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Cartoon (Randy Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (51%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (94%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BONDS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: DAVID JONES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



220 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
For the City, Love Means Nothing At the South St. Seaport Courts

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
The tennis courts near the South Street Seaport are approaching final game, set and match.
During its three-decade run, the private indoor courts on Piers 13 and 14 have witnessed countless matches, featuring novices as well as Wimbledon champions. The courts were also the setting for Woody Allen's fateful encounter with Diane Keaton in the 1977 movie "Annie Hall." 
 But the lease on the city-owned piers expires at the end of May and will not be renewed, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation.
The city is looking to redevelop those piers for other uses, she said.
"This is going to be disastrous," said Samuel P. Sporn, 69, who has played at the courts, which are run by the New York Health & Racquet Club, about three times a week for the last 15 years. "There will be nowhere to play downtown."
The nearest private indoor court, also run by the club, is at University Place and 12th Street, about two and a half miles away. According to the Parks Department, Manhattan has 98 public courts, with only two indoors: one on 60th Street and York Avenue and one on Randalls Island.
"It's a huge loss for kids in Manhattan," said Bill Wiese, executive director of the New York Junior Tennis League, which gives free lessons to inner-city children at the courts near the piers. High schools also use the courts during colder months, said Martha Singer, the athletic director at nearby Stuyvesant High School.
In 1998, the city solicited proposals for that site and two adjacent piers. The ideas range from a floating hotel to an aquarium to a youth hostel. One proposal is for a branch of the Guggenheim Museum, a curvilinear building that would rise as high as 45 stories. It was designed by Frank Gehry, the architect of the acclaimed Guggenheim branch in Bilbao, Spain.
The New York Health and Racquet Club, which took over the two "bubble tents" housing the courts in 1988, also submitted an application.
Ms. Patterson said that the city is still reviewing proposals, but some observers, such as Paul Goldstein, chairman of Community Board 1, say that it will be years before a decision is reached.
George Kondos, a consultant for the health club, said his company had asked the city to keep the courts open until a decision is made. "At this point," Mr. Kondos said, "the city does not want to do anything for us."
Meanwhile, Mr. Sporn has collected about 300 signatures calling on local officials "to do everything in their power to save" the courts.
The petitions were sent out last month, but Mr. Sporn said he has not received any formal responses. "The ball," he said, "is in the city's court." DENNY LEE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In "Annie Hall," the downtown tennis courts were a memorable backdrop for Woody Allen and Diane Keaton. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times; inset, United Artists)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (70%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HEALTH & RACQUET CLUB INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (52%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); PIERS TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (78%); FITNESS CENTERS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CHILDREN (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEE, DENNY WOODY ALLEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



221 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Three Who Thrived on Technology

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
THE spring dive in the Nasdaq composite index left investors in aggressive, technology-oriented mutual funds gasping. Yet when the books on the first quarter closed, it was clear that Internet-related stocks had maintained enough altitude to ensure that virtually all the best-performing funds were filled to the gills with such shares.
Over all, domestic diversified stock funds posted returns of 6.5 percent for the quarter, on average, handily beating the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which returned 2.29 percent. All eyes, though, remain on technology shares and the funds that hold them. After all, technology's outsized gains have supplied much of the high-octane fuel for the bull market. 
 Managers of three top-performing funds -- portfolios generally full of silicon and bandwidth -- talked about what drove their performance and what to make of the market's volatile technology sector for the rest of the year.
 
The Market Came to Them
An 80 percent stake in technology stocks, with a sprinkling of biotechnology issues, pushed the $1.22 billion Kopp Emerging Growth fund into the No. 3 place for the quarter, with a return of 42.3 percent. The fund closed its doors to new investors on Feb. 7, when assets eclipsed $1 billion.
"The market's been going after our space," said the fund's lead manager, Lee Kopp, 65, referring to companies that make the equipment and software for e-commerce.
The fund holds 65 companies, and its turnover is relatively low, averaging 25 to 35 percent a year.
One big winner for the portfolio was Digital Microwave, which is based in San Jose, Calif., and makes and markets microwave radio equipment for fixed and mobile networks. "We're getting more attention devoted to wireless," Mr. Koop said, adding that the company was benefiting from its heavy past spending on research and development.
The stock rose 44.5 percent in the quarter; Wall Street is predicting earnings of 49 cents a share in the fiscal year ending in March 2001, compared with an estimated 15 cents for the fiscal year just completed.
Another favorite is Rational Software of Cupertino, Calif., which makes software used by companies to develop Internet and e-business sites and services. Investors, Mr. Koop said, increasingly came to view its business as a "hot button" play on the Web, as the stock gained 55.7 percent last quarter. Analysts estimate earnings of $1.19 a share in the fiscal year ending in March 2001, compared with an estimated 94 cents for the 2000 year.
The fund also made money in the Zygo Corporation, which is based in Middlefield, Conn., and makes systems to improve the quality and reduce the cost of automated manufacturing processes for high-technology businesses. The stock jumped 139.8 percent in the quarter, as the company reported increased orders. Wall Street sees earnings of $1.17 a share for the year ending in June 2001, up from an estimated 61 cents this year.
Looking ahead, Mr. Koop is cautiously optimistic. He expects market returns of 15 to 20 percent a year, annualized, over the next three to five years. But despite describing the recent sell-off in Nasdaq as "healthy," he warns new clients to avoid the stock market for now if they cannot stomach pullbacks of the kind seen over the past two weeks.
 
A Momentum Speedster
In his Grand Prix fund, which took 12th place for the quarter with a gain of 32.7 percent, Robert Zuccaro, 56, uses a computer model that ranks all 10,000 publicly traded stocks in the United States by earnings and price momentum.
The fund has $692.5 million in assets and is relatively concentrated, holding just 25 companies, with a tilt toward stocks with big market capitalizations. All are technology issues.
One is PMC-Sierra, a British Columbia maker of semiconductors used in high-speed telecommunications lines. The stock jumped 154.1 percent in the quarter. Mr. Zuccaro cited its positive price momentum, as well as the 17 percent margin by which it exceeded consensus earnings estimates for the fourth quarter of 1999. "The market wants these kind of stocks," he said. He expects the company's earnings to grow 31 percent a year, on average, over three years.
Another winner is Applied Micro Circuits of San Diego, another maker of semiconductors used in telecommunications equipment. The stock rose 135.9 percent in the first quarter because of an unexpectedly high 23 percent gain in fourth-quarter 1999 earnings, Mr. Zuccaro said.
He also succeeded with Veritas Software, a Mountain View, Calif., designer and manufacturer of computer networking software. The company exceeded analysts' earnings estimates by 10 percent in the fourth quarter, prompting the stock's 37.3 percent gain in the first quarter this year, he said. He expects earnings to grow 96 percent, annualized, over the next three years.
He is unfazed by the recent sell-off in technology. "Nothing is fundamentally wrong," Mr. Zuccaro said. He expects the S. & P. 500 and Dow industrials to gain 15 percent for the year and the Nasdaq composite to climb 40 to 50 percent. "The U.S. is in a record economic expansion that will help the stock market," he said, "because the two are inextricably interlinked."
 
Beyond the Sell-Off
Jim D. Oelschlager, manager of the $557.7 million Pin Oak Aggressive Stock fund, which ranked No. 1 for the quarter with a gain of 42.5 percent, seemed almost relieved about the recent sell-off. "I don't think anyone should be upset, " he said. "We had to have this correction because of the heavy run-up in the stocks and the disappointment when Microsoft and government couldn't negotiate a settlement."
The fund is concentrated in 28 stocks, with 85 percent of total assets in technology. One of his biggest winners last quarter was Applied Materials, the big maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, which rose 48.8 percent; the fund has owned the stock since 1996. "The chip market has been very strong," Mr. Oelschlager said, adding that he believes chip manufacturing equipment makers have a long way to go before they reach the peak of their highly cyclical business. Earnings for Applied Materials, based in Santa Clara, Calif., should grow 30 percent over the next 12 months, he said.
Another holding, Juniper Networks, a Mountain View, Calif., maker of networking hardware for large corporations, rose 132.6 percent in the quarter. It benefited from "demand for networking products in conjunction with the rapid growth of the Internet, which will likely continue in the foreseeable future," Mr. Oelschlager said. He foresees earnings growth of 50 percent over the next 12 months.
Ciena, a Linthicum, Md., a maker of optical networking systems, rose 119.3 percent in the quarter. "The stock was severely beaten in 1998, came back sharply in 1999 and continued to rally," said Mr. Oelschlager, who bought shares in April 1998. "It was overdone on the downside and the market has been focusing on fiber optics stocks lately."
He foresees earnings growth of 40 to 50 percent a year over the next two years.
As for the future, Mr. Oelschlager warned, fasten your seat belt. "I'm optimistic over the long term, " he said. "but there will be periods when returns might be sharply lower than they have been over the last few quarters."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Kopp near his Naples, Fla., winter office. His emerging-growth fund returned TK percent last quarter. (David Carson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ZIGO (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (60%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3827 OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS & LENSES (60%); SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ZYGO CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANDWIDTH (78%); BONDS (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (68%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (64%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; KOPP, LEE; OELSCHLAGER, JAMES D; ZUCCARO, ROBERT ROBERT ZUCCARO (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



222 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: STATEN ISLAND UP CLOSE;
An Arts Council Fights for Its Place in the Sun

BYLINE: By JIM O'GRADY 

 BODY:
Advocates for the city-designated arts council on Staten Island say that, compared with similar councils in the other boroughs, it is not getting its fair share of city money. So the group is lobbying to increase its cut of the forthcoming city budget, from $22,388 to $125,000.
Vincent Montalbano, a lobbyist for the group, the Coalition on the Arts and Humanities, said it needed more city money to do its job of promoting resident artists. (All the councils seek private donations, too.) 
 "If the city is giving money to arts councils and you've got a vibrant one," he said, "you should get more than $22,000 a year." Among other programs, the group runs a kiosk at Whitehall Terminal in Lower Manhattan where tourists taking the ferry to Staten Island can get information on cultural events.
But how does the group's share compare to that of other councils? It depends on the numbers used.
The $22,388 that the coalition received last year is called base-line financing: the amount of money that is written into the city budget at the beginning of the negotiating process each year. But Susan Rothschild, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Cultural Affairs, said that when extra funds disbursed by the City Council are included the group received $37,388. That comes to 9 cents per Staten Island resident: less than the 14 cents in the Bronx and the 11 cents in Queens but more than the 7 cents per resident in Brooklyn. Manhattan does not have a comparable boroughwide arts council.
But the coalition's executive director, Laura Jean Watters, said that base-line figures were the truest gauge of the support an arts council receives from the city. She said organizations like hers used base-line figures when making long-range plans because those funds were more reliable than extra money from the Council, which can rise or fall from year to year. And using base-line figures, she said, the per-resident financing for her group drops to 5 cents, while that for the other arts councils remains at the figures Ms. Rothschild cited. Tom LaManna, a spokesman for City Councilman Jerome X. O'Donovan of Staten Island agreed with Ms. Watters.
"The Council's ability to enhance an arts council's budget is subject to the economy," he said. "Right now it's good. Next year it might not be."
Nevertheless, Mr. O'Donovan is working with Staten Island's other two Council members to increase the extra financing the coalition will get in the coming budget. Mr. Montalbano said the coalition would then work to get some or all of that money converted to base-line financing in the next budget. JIM O'GRADY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Jean Watters wants more financing for the arts on Staten Island. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COALITION ON THE ARTS AND HUMANITIES CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COALITION ON THE ARTS AND HUMANITIES CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STATEN ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); 

PERSON: O'GRADY, JIM JEROME X O'DONOVAN (59%); LAURA JEAN WATTERS (59%); SUSAN ROTHSCHILD (59%); VINCENT MONTALBANO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



223 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: ELMHURST;
Where Food Shops Are a Declining Species

BYLINE: By JIM O'GRADY 

 BODY:
Lee Epps, 69, said last week that she had changed her supermarket five times in the last eight years as, one by one, the stores have moved out of Elmhurst.
The last store was a Key Food at Broadway and Whitney Avenue. But it closed on March 31, and now Ms. Epps, and her 90,000 Elmhurst neighbors, have no supermarkets left. 
 The company that owns the Key Food building says it has signed another supermarket to move into the space. But in the near term there are none. And while Ms. Epps said she is well enough to push her wheeled shopping cart 10 blocks to the Met Market on 37th Avenue in Jackson Heights, not all of her elderly neighbors can do the same.
"Some of the ladies I know have medical problems that interfere with their walking," Ms. Epps said. "They're in their 70's, they're widowed, and they have no one to help them."
Councilman John D. Sabini, whose district includes Elmhurst, said that he started getting calls from worried residents two weeks ago, when word got out that Key Food was closing. As a temporary measure, he said, he had met with the owners of a supermarket in a nearby Queens neighborhood and urged them to run a shuttle bus from their store to downtown Elmhurst. Although he has high hopes for that arrangement, he said that a long-term solution would mean luring more supermarkets to the area.
"It's hard because it's prosperous there," he said. "Large pieces of property get snapped up."
Richard Grobman, the president of Dan's Supreme, the company that owned the shuttered Key Food store, said he wanted to keep doing business in Elmhurst. "But the landlord was more interested in leasing to someone else," he said.
The supermarket closings touch on tensions connected to the changing population in the neighborhood. As Asian immigrants have moved in, Asian food stores have sprung up. But Ms. Epps and other non-Asian residents say they cannot switch to these stores because they do not sell the foods that they are accustomed to eating.
Ms. Epps recalled that a manager at Key Food recently told her that the closing of the supermarkets meant it was time for her to leave her old neighborhood. "But I can't," she said.
Jim Wang is the president of 82-90 Broadway Realty Corporation, which owns the store that Key Food had been renting. He said, "We have already signed a lease with a new tenant, another supermarket company." He would neither name the company nor say whether it would sell Asian food items only, but he did say he expected the new store to move in next month.
The executive director of the Elmhurst Economic Development Corporation, Steven R. Trimble, said he spoke to Mr. Wang about having Key Food stay in the neighborhood.
"He quoted the Constitution," Mr. Trimble said. "He said, 'I can do whatever I want with my property.' And he's right." JIM O'GRADY 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KEY FOOD SUPERMARKET (NYC) DAN'S SUPREME SUPERMARKETS INC (53%); KEY FOOD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KEY FOOD SUPERMARKET (NYC) KEY FOOD (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ELMHURST (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ASIAN-AMERICANS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: O'GRADY, JIM LEE EPPS (95%); STEVEN R TRIMBLE (58%); JIM WANG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



224 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Getting Reacquainted With Risk

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
NOW that the stock market's death-defying act of last Tuesday is receding into memory, can investors return to their tried-and-true bull market ways? Or was the sickening plunge and remarkable rebound in both the Nasdaq and the Dow industrials a sign that something basic about the stock market had changed?
Those are the questions that many investors are pondering even as Tuesday's tumult looks more and more like a one-day wonder. For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.7 percent, while the Nasdaq composite lost 2.7 percent. The Dow is down 3.35 percent so far this year, well below the Nasdaq's return of 9.27 percent. 
 Though things have quieted down, the wild action early last week was indeed a watershed, according to many market veterans. These people think that the 1,074-point round-trip move in the Nasdaq composite on Tuesday indicates that the markets have entered a new period and that investors who want to prosper in the future must retool their strategies to adapt to it.
"What was readily workable in 1999 and early 2000 is up for review," said James Moltz, vice chairman of International Strategy and Investment, an investment advisory firm in New York. "It seems clear the investor perception that nothing can go wrong in the new economy seems to be meeting with greater suspicion. The element of risk has been introduced into the equation."
Investors' heightened awareness of risk is evident in their flight to the stocks of profitable companies with solid stories. General Electric, Intel and Oracle all rose through last week's turmoil, while Internet indexes crowded with untested, unprofitable e-commerce companies struggled to find a floor.
The resilience of the giants led the recovery of the major stock indexes by week's end. But an astonishingly large number of stocks are in bear-market territory: as of Wednesday's close, 67.8 percent of stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 were down 20 percent or more from their 52-week peaks, according to Salomon Smith Barney, and 84.9 percent of stocks in the Nasdaq composite.
There is clearly stress in the stock market. And nowhere is it more evident than in the maniacal moves besetting prices today.
The greatest gyrations are in the Nasdaq composite. Leuthold Weeden, an investment advisory firm in Minneapolis, says the index has moved 3 percent or more from the previous close on less than one-half of 1 percent of all the trading days in the Nasdaq's 29-year history. This year, there have been such moves on 27 percent of trading days.
Or consider this measure of Nasdaq volatility: In less than four hours on Tuesday, it fell 634.31 points. In all of 1998, the index moved 622.27 points from the beginning of the year to the end. (Of course, that was a bigger move in percentage terms.)
But volatility is not limited to the Nasdaq. Extreme swings are increasingly common in the S.& P., as well. So far this year, Leuthold Weeden said, the S.& P. has moved 1 percent or more from its previous close on 47.6 percent of trading days. To exceed that level of volatility requires a trip back to 1938, a time of global turmoil. Even in the bear market year of 1974, volatility was lower than it is today: 45.1 percent.
Veteran investors say these wild swings in prices are the market's way of signaling that all is not well with the world. Professional traders like volatility, because it gives them opportunities to duck in and out of stocks. But for individuals, it is a sign of a market in transition -- one that poses significant risk.
The free fall on Tuesday "revealed a real fragility in this market," said Steven Leuthold, who calculated the volatility figures. "Investors, whether institutions or individuals, have really overwhelmed the market mechanism."
The mechanism that Mr. Leuthold refers to -- investors' ability to find others willing to trade with them -- has been overwhelmed for some time now. But investors have not recognized it as a problem as stock prices have risen. Buyers overwhelmed sellers, pushing stocks into the stratosphere. Investing was fun.
But an overwhelmed market mechanism can get ugly on the downside. "Market participants never perceive volatility when prices go up substantially," said Henry Kaufman, the Wall Street economist. "They only believe that markets are volatile when prices go down. That is the bias in investor behavior."
Many factors contribute to the surging volatility. Dirt-cheap commissions to trade stocks have lured many new investors into the market. They trade more often, and many move in and out of stocks en masse, reacting to information on the Internet or cable television.
INDEED, trying to profit from these waves of buying and selling has become popular -- not just among day traders, but among part-time investors, too. And individuals and institutions alike have embraced momentum investing, a strategy of buying stocks as they rise because they are rising -- and hence another contributor to market frenzy.
As more and more investors have entered the market, traders whose job it is to help them execute their orders have retreated from the arena.
Profits for market makers in Nasdaq stocks have fallen significantly, a result of regulators' scrutiny. And so the ranks of market makers have dwindled, leaving fewer buyers on hand to provide a floor for stock prices when they start to slide.
"There is very little cushion provided by intermediaries today," Mr. Leuthold said. "There is an illusion of liquidity given with the number of shares trading today. But the true liquidity of the market is revealed in a situation like we saw Tuesday."
Mr. Kaufman identified another important force propelling market volatility: Wall Street's obsession with making tradeable securities out of investments that previously would have sat on investors' or bankers' books until they came due. Home mortgages, for example, are now bought and sold furiously.
"With these new obligations, you can leverage them more, because the market price allows you to borrow against them," Mr. Kaufman said. "This allows a more intensive management of those assets, which also creates a more near-term orientation by portfolio managers. So stocks are bought more for their next price turn than for the likely value of them 10 to 20 years from now."
Some economists and market strategists think Tuesday's turmoil also confirmed what had been a stealthy but important shift in the broad economic picture.
"We had some very definite trends in the economy from late last summer to January or February of this year," said James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "Interest rates were rising consistently around the world, oil prices were going up and technology totally dominated the stock market. Now, all these trends have changed definitively."
Mr. Paulsen says these changes may portend a slowdown in the economy later this year. "The markets have been suggesting that profit momentum and economic momentum are starting to slow," he said. The key factor, he said, is that most corporations' pricing power is weakening even as the economy grows.
The bond market may have sniffed out a coming slowdown; that, Mr. Paulsen said, is why yields have fallen so fast, despite strong economic data. The perception also may explain the bond market's odd behavior, in which long-term yields are lower than short-term ones. An inverted yield curve has historically been a signal of imminent economic slowdown.
What all this means for technology stocks is, naturally, of supreme interest to investors. After all, these are the stocks in which investors have made the most money recently.
Christine A. Callies, chief equity strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, says the love affair is waning. As of Wednesday, she noted, roughly a third of technology shares were down at least 50 percent from highs hit in the first three months of 2000.
"Once traders have lost money faster than they made it, speculative fervor dies quickly," Ms. Callies said. She does not expect technology stocks to recover their market leadership role for several quarters.
NOT everyone agrees. Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist for Lehman Brothers, who has been extremely bullish -- and correct -- on technology in recent years, says Tuesday's plunge and pop in the Nasdaq was the bottom for technology. "Both for the market and for tech, typically when you get that kind of volume, that has almost invariably meant you have a climactic bottom," he said.
He acknowledges that investors must be more selective about technology stocks today. E-tailers look particularly vulnerable, he said, but companies building the Internet's infrastructure should remain leaders.
"Old-economy stocks will participate to a degree," he said. "But at end of day, does Ford Motor Company have the top-line growth of Oracle? No. This will be yet another year when growth outperforms value."
In coming weeks, first-quarter earnings figures will start to seep into the market, and most analysts think they will be impressive. But some economists worry that profits later in the year may disappoint.
"Profit expectations are too high," Mr. Kaufman said. "And the profit expectations that are embedded in prices today are way beyond anything that is achievable in any reasonable period of time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the Nasdaq was making a record-breaking 1,074-point round-trip move on Tuesday, a man in Toronto watched the stunning market figures stream by on a stock ticker. (Associated Press)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs/Charts: "How the World Has Changed"
Analysts say four fundamental changes in markets and the economy were factors in the manic trading last week.
 
UNRELENTING VOLATILITY
Low trading costs, new trading technology and instantly available financial data all are fomenting wide swings in stock prices.
 
DWINDLING LIQUIDITY
Markets have grown so huge that the brokerage industry is less able to put the brakes on fast-moving prices by buying when stocks are falling.
 
TECHNOLOGY DETHRONED
Old-economy stocks have taken technology shares' place as prime movers in the market.
 
FEARS OF A SLOWDOWN
When long-term bond yields fall below shorter-term rates, a decline in economic growth typically follows.
 
(Sources: The Leuthold Group; Securities Industry Association; Birinyi & Associates; Wells Capital Management; Technical Data)(pg. 1)
 
"What Goes Up . . ."
Many of the highest-flying stocks and mutual funds of 1999 have taken a severe clipping in the four weeks since the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index peaked on March 10.
 
TOP MUTUAL FUNDS IN 1999
 
Nicholas-Applegate Global Tech. I
CHANGE IN 1999: +493.7
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -27.6
 
Warburg Pincus Advisor Japan Small Co.
CHANGE IN 1999: +329.7
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -21.2
 
MAS Small Cap Growth Institutional
CHANGE IN 1999: +313.9
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -17.9
 
Van Wagoner Emerging Growth
CHANGE IN 1999: +291.2
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -26.8
 
Nevis Fund
CHANGE IN 1999: +286.5
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -25.7
 
TOP INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS IN 1999
 
Internet Capital Group
CHANGE IN 1999: +2,733.3
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -48.5
 
Commerce One
CHANGE IN 1999: +2,707.1
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -50.0
 
VerticalNet
CHANGE IN 1999: +1,950.0
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -56.3
 
Brocade Communications Systems
CHANGE IN 1999: +1,763.2
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -14.2
 
PurchasePro.com
CHANGE IN 1999: +1,618.8
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -53.4
 
TOP-PERFORMING STOCKS IN 1999+
 
Puma Technology
CHANGE IN 1999: +3307.4
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -2.7
 
Digital Lightwave
CHANGE IN 1999: +2351.3
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -51.8
 
Qualcomm
CHANGE IN 1999: +2234.2
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: +1.1
 
Silicon Storage Technology
CHANGE IN 1999: +1666.3
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -9.5
 
Clarus
CHANGE IN 1999: +1611.7
PERFORMANCE SINCE MARCH 10: -50.0
 
*Through Thursday. +Share price of at least $1 on Dec. 31, 1998.
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; CommScan)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (59%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); INTEL CORP (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (59%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



225 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2616 words

HEADLINE: Organic Farming, Seeking the Mainstream

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: KUTZTOWN, Pa.

 BODY:
THE Rodale Institute's 330-acre research farm here got something it prefers to a bumper crop when a record drought struck eastern Pennsylvania last year.
Rodale plants crops with the goal of harvesting evidence that organic farming should be the wave of the future in agriculture. After the drought last summer, Rodale's parched organic plots yielded 24 to 30 bushels of soybeans an acre, well below the 40-bushel average of previous years for the research site, but Rodale could not have been happier. That was because yields on comparison plots just next to them that had been doused year after year with synthetic fertilizers and conventional farm chemicals had plummeted to 16 bushels. 
 "These are very significant findings for farmers around the world," exulted Jeff Moyer, Rodale's farm manager. "Our trials show that improving the quality of the soil through organic processes can mean the difference between a harvest or hardship in times of drought."
The results last year also reinforced long-term comparisons, begun by Rodale in 1981, that document how organic farming can be more profitable for small farmers -- even if yields are not always as high and, by some calculations, even without the premium prices that organic crops generally receive.
Good research news from bad weather. Sales growing faster than any other segment of the food industry. Consumer fears about biotechnology spurring interest. Low prices for commodity crops encouraging conventional farmers to take the organic plunge. Add it all up and there has never been a more receptive moment for organic farming.
So is the organic movement finally on track to becoming the mainstream enterprise that Rodale and other advocates have long envisioned? Hardly. Organics are starting from such a small base in the United States -- an estimated one-fifth of 1 percent of farmland and 1 percent of retail sales -- that it would take years of mind-boggling growth to gain a truly substantial share of the retail food sector, which the Department of Agriculture put at $756 billion in 1998.
Such growth is almost inconceivable, say agricultural economists and even many people in the organic movement. One reason is the many challenges of farming organically; another is the heavy investment in current farming methods. Perhaps most important, though, is the deep-seated suspicion of many organic farmers and consumers about anything that smacks of big business.
"Getting to 5 percent of food sales in 10 years would be miraculous," said Katherine DiMatteo, director of the Organic Trade Association in Greenfield, Mass. Many farmers, she and others said, will advertise organic practices, like not using pesticides, and siphon off potential organic customers without making the commitment to having their products comply with the certification requirements of monitoring groups.
If the industry is not on track to achieving market power, it is winning respect -- and that alone is something of a revolution in agriculture. From the 1950's to the early 1990's, farming without chemicals was widely derided in the United States as the province of hobbyists, the health-obsessed and misty-eyed urban and suburban refugees pursuing romantic dreams of rural life.
"It's not a niche market anymore in terms of consumer interest," said Harvey Hartman, a market researcher and retail industry consultant in Seattle. Surveys by his company, the Hartman Group, found last fall that 90 percent of American consumers were either buying organic products or considering doing so, up from 60 percent two years earlier.
Interest is stronger still in Europe and Japan, where fears are running high about the use of growth hormones, antibiotics, pesticides and genetic engineering in conventional agriculture. Sweden, one of several European countries that subsidize farmers in switching to organic methods, has set a goal of converting 20 percent of its farm acreage to organic farming by 2005.
In the United States, back-to-the-earth neophytes continue to set up organic farms, making organics the only sector of agriculture that is attracting new blood. But thousands of conventional farmers are also weighing the risks and benefits of heading down the organic path, lured by premium prices that are averaging 20 percent above those for conventional crops and sometimes many times more.
"Farmers have been losing money in conventional agriculture, and organic is looking profitable," said Mark Ritchie, director of the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy in Minneapolis. But the farmers who are making the switch are more of a trickle than a flood.
ONE barrier may be the new national standards that the Agriculture Department is proposing for the industry. The aim is to overcome the consumer confusion caused by having more than 40 different private and state groups, often with conflicting rules, certifying which products are organic. But the proposed national standard is so restrictive -- at the industry's own insistence -- that Ms. DiMatteo and other experts contend that some farmers now selling "organic" products may no longer qualify.
Other hurdles are deeply rooted. "Everything in agriculture has been built around a simplified rotation of one or two crops," said Rich Welsh, an agriculture economist and rural sociologist at the Henry A. Wallace Institute in Beltsville, Md. To grow more crops in rotation -- a requirement for organic certification -- farmers would need to develop an array of new markets and systems for storing and distributing their products.
Labor could also be a barrier to growth, at least in the United States. Rapid expansion could leave the industry short of qualified inspectors to certify organic products. And many organic crops require periodic weeding by hand or other labor-intensive care.
"When we got started, we thought it was a good thing that it needs more people," said Thomas Beddard, of Chambersburg, Pa., who started Lady Moon Farm with his wife 14 years ago. Now, having become the East Coast's biggest organic vegetable grower, with 400 acres split between Florida and Pennsylvania, he frets about the consequences of his success.
"It's clear we are reliant on poor immigrants and that the work is brutal," Mr. Beddard said.
Perhaps the biggest barrier is the difficult transition from conventional to organic production. When they stop using chemicals on their land, farmers initially get sharply reduced yields. Research by Rodale and others shows that it takes three to five years for organic soil to be built up to high fertility levels and perhaps longer for farmers to learn how to deal with the weed, pest and disease problems they have to confront without chemical help. During the first three years, under nearly universal certification rules, the crop cannot be labeled as organic unless it is grown on previously unfarmed land, meaning that the farmer cannot sell it for a premium price. Some farmers also struggle to figure out how to market their crops.
"One of the hardest things about the organic industry is getting the information you need to get into it," said Gary Reding, a fifth-generation Indiana farmer who is converting 250 of his farm's 600 acres to organics.
For all the hurdles, experts say, organics could easily achieve an influential share of 10 percent or more in some parts of the industry. In fact, they already account for nearly one-third of all herb production, according to the Agriculture Department, and high percentages of specialty grains and vegetables.
More important, although once dismissed as clownish, negligent farming, the organic movement is now seen as an innovative standard setter that is pulling all of conventional agriculture toward higher environmental standards and more sustainable practices. This year, for the first time, the Agriculture Department has budgeted $5.5 million specifically for organics research; state universities are scrambling to get their extension agents, who advise farmers, up to speed.
"The trend is to adopt a lot of organic practices in conventional agriculture," said John Diener, who has put 20 percent of his diversified farm in Fresno County, Calif., into Greenway Organic Farms, a 2,000-acre partnership with two neighboring farms. "We've cut the use of commercial phosphate fertilizers on the conventional farm by two-thirds since we started with organic."
And organic farming could be essential to maintaining small farms in the developed world. The premium prices that organic products command can help small farmers earn enough to stay afloat as agriculture in general moves toward the industrial model of ever-larger farms producing food as cheaply as possible, often under contract to a meatpacker or food processor.
FINDING ways to make small organic farmers efficient has been a focus for Rodale and most other organics researchers.
"We're coming from the premise that it's bad for 10 percent of the farmers to produce 80 percent of the food," Mr. Moyer said recently, as Rodale planned to plant this year's crops.
Organic farmers might never have a better chance to gain public support. Their market centers on a growing demographic group -- wealthy baby boomers drawn to what Mr. Hartman calls "healthy lifestyles." These people are willing to pay more for products that they believe are healthier or fresher, better for the environment and more humane for livestock. Many people also see supporting small, local farms as a social good.
Some big companies are also throwing money into raising organics' profile. General Mills acquired Small Planet Foods, the producer of Cascadian Farms and other organic brands, and H. J. Heinz recently bought 19 percent of the Hain Food Group, which makes a variety of organic and "natural" products.
"Visibility with consumers has been a limiting factor," said David Neuman, vice president of sales and marketing for Nature's Path, which distributes organic breakfast cereals and other foods, primarily to natural-food stores. "General Mills put $15 million into marketing Sunrise, their new organic cereal, last year and they did $40 million in sales," Mr. Neuman said -- an amount more than his company brought in for all 30 brands it sells. "They can force-feed the distribution system."
Lately, supermarket chains that once had no interest in stocking organic products have been scrambling to line up reliable suppliers in the highly fragmented industry, especially for the produce aisles. They are competing with upstart retail chains like Whole Foods and Wild Oats Inc., which heavily promote their broad selections of organic goods.
In addition to that generally supportive climate, organic farmers are getting a boost from having what appears to be the perfect public enemy: genetic engineering. Critics of biotechnology, with the support of many organic farmers, have popularized a David-versus-Goliath image of small organic farms threatened with extinction by the products of giant agribusinesses like Monsanto, Novartis and DuPont. Drifting bioengineered pollen will pollute organic crops, they say, and insects will destroy what is left after feeding on transgenic corn and developing resistance to natural pesticides.
The Agriculture Department -- the public-sector face of the agricultural establishment -- helped spotlight the confrontation. Ignoring advice from the organics sector, it issued proposed national organic food standards two years ago that would have allowed ingredients from genetically altered plants and animals. After being inundated with 275,000 negative comments, the agency issued a new proposal this year that would ban transgenic ingredients.
THE controversy lured many biotechnology supporters into denigrating organic farming. They have argued that the public should accept biotechnology because farming without it -- especially organic farming -- is too inefficient to feed the world.
The arguments assume that feeding the world is a priority for everyone in agriculture. That may not be the case for organic farmers. In contrast to the Internet world, where it seems as if every small enterprise would be thrilled to be bought out by a large, wealthy competitor, organic farming circles are engaged in constant, bitter debates over whether big farmers, giant food processors and supermarket chains should be welcomed into the business. Many fear that such a development -- which could accelerate growth rapidly -- will erode the price premiums upon which they rely for survival.
"There's a fundamental conflict because, to a lot of people, this is supposed to be the alternative to the industrial agriculture system," said Charles Benbrook, a consultant in Sand Point, Idaho, who has been a prominent proponent of organic farming. "Is this about getting better food grown in an environmental way to the most people possible, or is it about creating an alternative food system that is small, local and sensitive to issues like social justice?"
If feeding the world organically becomes the main objective, many people in the organic sector say that the blanket opposition to genetic engineering might soften before long. Some organic farmers say genetic engineering has already created some products that they should be allowed to use, like Ecogen Inc.'s pesticides extracted from genetically-altered bacteria grown in fermenters. Such products, the proponents say, are simply more efficiently produced forms of sprays that organic farmers already use.
Others say genetic engineering should be considered where breakthrough gains for sustainable farming might be achieved, such as inventing a perennial form of wheat that could be mowed rather than harvested and replanted each year.
"Among organic farmers the views about transgenics range from 'no, never' to 'not yet,' " said Brian Baker, policy director of the Organic Material Review Institute, a nonprofit group in Eugene, Ore., that rates the acceptability of materials for organic farming.
The partisans of the small and local have the high ground when it comes to poetic thinking; some of them talk, for instance, of developing a society based on "foodsheds," just as the ecology of rivers is based on watersheds -- but the marketplace seems to be moving away from them. Many organic farmers on the East Coast say they are under heavy pressure from larger operations in California and imports from Mexico.
"All the same patterns that affect conventional agriculture are happening in organic," said Jim Crawford, whose New Morning Farm in Hustontown, Pa., is the headquarters for the Tuscarora Organic Growers Cooperative, which represents 20 farms in the area. "We're not even selling that we are organic at this point. We are selling freshness, quality and nearness to our markets."
Mr. Crawford added that sales to restaurants in the mid-Atlantic corridor had jumped from zero to 60 percent of the co-op's total revenue in the last four years.
Even the nation's biggest organic farmers, like the Lundberg family in California's Central Valley, have no intention of betting the entire farm on the organic business.
"About 55 to 60 percent of our sales are organic," said Bryce Lundberg, whose family currently grows organic rice on about 6,000 acres near Richvale, Calif. Although organic sales are way up from the 1970's, their share of the total farm revenue is down from 75 percent because major weed problems forced the Lundbergs to sharply reduce organic production for several years.
"It's a little more profitable, but much higher risk," said Tim O'Donnell, the Lundbergs' vice president of sales and marketing. "There's years when you could lose everything."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers harvesting squash that was grown organically on Lady Moon Farm, in Punta Gorda, Fla. (David Carson for The New York Times)(pg. 10); A human-powered planter is used to seed a spinach plot on the Rodale Institute's organic research farm in Kutztown, Pa. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Charts: "Sales of Organic Foods Are Soaring..."
Chart shows retail sales of organic products.
 
...But Organics Remain A Minor Factor in American Agriculture
 
Organic farming as a percentage of total U.S. acreage for selected crops.
 
Corn, wheat, barley, rice, sunflowers, soybeans, tomatoes, citrus and potatoes: Less than 1%
 
Oats, rye, dry peas, lentils, lettuce, carrots, apples and grapes: 1% - 2%
 
Buckwheat and culinary and medicinal herbs: 30% - 40%
 
(Sources: New Hope Communication; Organic Trade Association; Datamonitor)(pg. 10)
 
"Field Test for Organics"
The Rodale Institute began the longest-running field comparison of organic and conventional grain farming in 1981, on 25 acres in eastern Pennsylvania.
 
Since 1991, the best organic plots have followed a rotation with cover crops like hairy vetch and rye being plowed into the field to fertilize it. Conventional farming uses a two-crop rotation.
 
Chart compares organic farming and conventional farming
 
Looking at a five-year period (1991-1995), researchers highlighted some of the reasons that organic farming needs to command premium prices to be as profitable as conventional farming.
 
Chart shows average costs per acre for conventional and organic farming.
 
The advantage in conventional farming could be overcome by a 12.6 percent price premium.
 
Projected over 750 acres of cropland.
 
Includes cost factor for transition from conventional to organic farming.
 
(Sources: Profs. James C. Hanson and Erik Lichtenberg, University of Maryland; Steven E. Peters, Seeds of Change)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RODALE INSTITUTE RODALE INSTITUTE (94%); RODALE INSTITUTE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RODALE INSTITUTE RODALE INSTITUTE (94%); RODALE INSTITUTE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; ORGANIC FOOD; RESEARCH DROUGHT (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (87%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (86%); FERTILIZERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; MOYER, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



226 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS: Open Windows;
The New Math Of Monopoly

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
THE scorecard in the Microsoft case, according to Attorney General Janet Reno, is simple: Microsoft lost and America's consumers won.
After a federal judge ruled on Monday that Microsoft was a monopolistic predator that had repeatedly violated the nation's antitrust laws, Ms. Reno declared, "Thanks to this ruling, consumers who have been harmed can now look forward to benefits." 
 Next, the Justice Department and 19 states who sued Microsoft will propose to the court what sanctions should be taken against the company. Before that happens, however, consider how consumers and the computing world have fared since 1995, when the government case against Microsoft began.
The average price of a personal computer has dropped sharply, while PC's have grown more powerful and versatile. The industry has generated growth, jobs and wealth -- even created, some say, a New Economy that is the envy of other nations.
So why was this costly and sweeping antitrust suit filed against Microsoft nearly two years ago? The answer, according to the government and many antitrust experts, is twofold: to enforce the law and to support innovation.
That is a new rationale for antitrust action, one adapted to the New Economy. In the Standard Oil era, monopoly-busting was about price-fixing. Now, the government claims, monopolies constrain technological change. So the Microsoft case marks what may be an important step in how government and the courts deal with the Internet economy in the future.
The traditional half of the government case was simply a litany of anti-competitive practices: that Microsoft illegally tied its Internet browser to its industry-standard Windows operating system, and then used exclusionary contracts and threats to force computer makers and Internet service providers to shun the products of rivals like Netscape Communications, the pioneer in Internet browsing software.
It was the economic theory underpinning the government's case that was novel. That theory leaned heavily on new thinking about how modern high-technology markets work. In traditional antitrust cases, high prices typically signal a gouging monopolist. There was, in fact, evidence presented that the price of Windows, which runs the basic operations of nearly 90 percent of PC's, would be lower if the company had competition. And industry analysts estimate that the pretax profit on Microsoft's Windows business is an astronomical 90 percent.
Still, Windows accounts for only about 5 percent of the total price of most PC's sold today. So even if Windows prices are slightly higher than they should be, it is not something that consumers would notice. (Microsoft said it raised prices on Windows because it has added all kinds of features in recent years.)
But price seems a less reliable signal of monopolistic abuse than it would be with, say, an oil producer or steel maker, because the cost of producing copies of a software program is virtually zero. Microsoft merely licenses its computer code to PC makers, who then install it. Whether Microsoft sells 100 million or 200 million copies, its costs are all in developing the code to begin with.
"The ground rules have changed economically in cases like this and we realized that in bringing the Microsoft case," said Daniel Rubinfeld, the chief economist of the Justice Department's antitrust division until the end of 1998. "And innovation, much more than price, is what the Microsoft case is about."
The new economics of software, according to the government, mean a dominant company like Microsoft can shape innovation and curb competition with a new weapon -- its technology standard. Windows is the gateway through which all the hardware and software used in the vast majority of personal computers must pass. Microsoft, the government charged, denied rivals early access to its technology, while rewarding its industry friends with cooperation. That raised the barrier to entry, in cost and difficulty, to challengers.
The Microsoft case, according to Mr. Rubinfeld, now a professor at the University of California at Berkeley, marks the beginning of a growing debate over government policy in markets that rely on innovation, software and the Internet. These markets, he says, tend to naturally evolve toward one or two dominant companies (think Cisco in routers for Internet data or eBay in online auctions). They control the technology standards in their markets. What balance should be struck between protecting their intellectual property and insuring that newcomers get a fair chance to compete?
"The goal of policy," said Robert E. Hall, an economist at Stanford University, "is to make sure you hold the door open to the next Netscape, to new entrants who bring innovation to the market."
After hearing the evidence in the antitrust case, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson found last week that "Microsoft mounted a deliberate assault on entrepreneurial efforts that, left to rise or fall on their own merits, could well have enabled the introduction of competition" to Microsoft's markets.
In his fact-finding document last November, Judge Jackson concluded with an impassioned embrace of the innovation theory of consumer harm. At the end of more than 200 pages examining Microsoft and its conduct, he wrote, "The ultimate result is that some innovations that would truly benefit consumers never occur for the sole reason that they do not coincide with Microsoft's self-interest."
Microsoft plans to appeal Judge Jackson's ruling, and the company's chairman, William H. Gates, bridles at its damning depiction of his company. "This ruling turns on its head the reality that consumers know: that our software has helped make PC's accessible and more affordable to millions of Americans," he said.
Microsoft insists that the very acts the government claimed were anticompetitive, like folding browsing software into Windows, resulted in bringing the Internet to the PC-using masses. That was real innovation, Microsoft believes, which deserves praise, not prosecution.
It is interesting to speculate how things might have turned out had Microsoft not, in Judge Jackson's phrase, placed "its oppressive thumb on the scale of competitive fortune."
The most rapid innovation and most venture-capital investment in recent years, experts note, have been in Internet computing, outside Microsoft's stronghold in the personal computer business. Innovation in Internet software, they note, might have gone even faster had Microsoft's actions not hobbled Netscape.
In the PC industry, they add, the most innovative company recently has been the reinvigorated Apple Computer since its cofounder Steven P. Jobs returned and took over in 1997. Again, Apple is largely outside Microsoft's control because it uses its own Macintosh operating system, instead of Windows.
"It's hypothetical, but the argument is that sure things are great in the high-tech economy, but they might have been even better," observed David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "All these things on the Internet would have happened anyway, but they would have happened faster and the quality would have been better without Microsoft's anti-competitive acts."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Gates launching Windows 95, before his antitrust troubles began. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); A monopoly on parade: many screens, one logo, at a store in London. (Associated Press)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US); ATTORNEYS GENERAL ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); LITIGATION (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LAWYERS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); PRICE FIXING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); CARTELS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EVIDENCE (70%); INTERNET BROWSERS (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



227 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Backtalk;
When E-Mail And Opinions Are Welcome

BYLINE: By Robert Lipsyte

 BODY:
Now that our forum is off and running at the mouth, just a click away on your e-mail dial (TheLipsite@aol.com), your only excuse for not participating is the continuing confusion over college sports: is it professional, semiprofessional, amateur? Are these labels without meaning? Why should we care?
As more colleges go online with their courses, the ultimate Final Four may be played among great cyberuniversities, several of which will probably be spun out of the Microsoft breakup. When a kid from Gates Tech who grew up in a home without a laptop wins most valuable player, we'll know that the old-school values held. 
 Marcia Fogel Yeager, who was one of TheLipsite's first respondents, is definitely old school. By e-mail, she says: "In my dreamworld students would go to college and then try out for the team. Many high school students I know don't even know that Duke or Georgetown are colleges -- they think that's just a team name."
Yeager identifies herself as "an avid sports fan (except when Dick Vitale is broadcasting)," who thinks "greedy players, coaches, TV, sporting goods manufacturers, etc., are dominating the system" and the "N.C.A.A., N.F.L., N.B.A., N.H.L., etc., need to take back the game."
You're right, Ms. Y, but aren't those groups the ones who gave (at least part of) the game away during their greedy snarfle at the trough?
A mailer called Pagresti writes: "All the stories I read over the past four weeks mentioned how good the basketball players were and how exciting the games were, but I never read about how the student-athletes keep up with their studies when they are on the road playing basketball for several weeks at a time. Do they get tutoring? When do they go to school to keep up with the other students? Or do they even go to classes? What do the college presidents say about going to school, or is schooling just another annoyance that the basketball players have to tolerate when they are playing these games?"
This should encourage the Drake Group, that band of tenured desperadoes who met in Des Moines last October in a remarkable conference organized by Prof. Jon Ericson of Drake University. Among the many notable academics in attendance were William C. Dowling, a founder of the Rutgers 1000, which is devoted to de-emphasizing sports at the university; Andrew Zimbalist of Smith College, the noted demystifier of sports economics; and Murray Sperber, Indiana University's antidote to Coach Bob Knight.
In its latest manifesto from the prairie, the Drake Group calls for the end of athletic scholarships and the term "student-athlete" (it's one or the other). The group wants sports controlled by the faculty senate rather than the athletic department. It is demanding full disclosure of all academic aspects -- tutors, course load, choice of major, graduation rates -- of a team and of athletes, except for individual grades.
The importance of the Drakes (they are mostly males, after all) is in their bold challenge to a corrupt system run by their bosses, the college presidents. Coaches may make the headlines and the shoe-contract money, but they are ultimately dependent on the talents of teenagers; meanwhile, the presidents perk on, whether or not the athletes win, whether or not the students learn. The Drakes are also bucking the sad complicity of their colleagues. Too many teachers roll over for coaches. Some are intimidated, others are fans, many just love to rub around in the testosterone pools of the jock culture.
Speaking of testosterone, the social, cultural, political and physical powers of that manly hormone were celebrated in an absorbing article in The New York Times Magazine last Sunday by Andrew Sullivan, who also poses questions for sports. How can women consider competing in most games with men when that most profound distinction, testosterone production, can never be equalized without making women into men? Sullivan adds, "Even more unsettling is the racial gap in testosterone." He cites scientific studies that show black men have 3 to 19 percent more testosterone than white men. He wonders if that could be the reason black men dominate certain sports.
If white men can't jump, they can do androstenedione, a legal supplement that boosts the hormone pumpers. Mark McGwire set the home run record on andro in 1998, although he says he has stopped. Lately, feeling righteous, McGwire criticized Major League Baseball for opening the season in Japan. He said it was a money-grubbing tactic not in the best interests of the pastime.
A reader, Jothar, comments to TheLipsite: "For Mark McGwire to turn down a trip to Japan because it was just about money is absurd. Since its inception, professional baseball was all about money. This Japan trip is merely a new twist in the sport's relentless pursuit of Mammon. Fifty years from now, we'll be waxing nostalgic about the very first advertising patches to be featured on major league uniforms, and it will involve our very own Mets."
What do you think?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark McGwire rejected a trip to Japan, saying Major League Baseball was greedy. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); SPORTS FANS (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); BASEBALL (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: RICHARD 'DICK' VITALE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



228 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Angolan Paradox: Oil Wealth Only Adds to Misery

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN

DATELINE: LUANDA, Angola

 BODY:
Measured by the abundance of its oil and the paucity of its population, this is potentially the richest country in Africa.
Not that Antonio Dodge Domingo would know. 
 On the balcony of his second-floor apartment, human excrement splatters day and night. His neighbors toss it by the bucketful from above.
In Angola's capital, Mr. Domingo, his wife, his seven children and his hundreds of upstairs neighbors fill a 17-story building that has no electricity, no telephones, no elevators, no windows, no garbage pickup and no plumbing. A contractor abandoned the concrete shell 25 years ago, fleeing to Lisbon upon Angola's independence from Portugal.
Mr. Domingo's children often have dysentery, probably from playing on the balcony or from the brown water oozing down walls in the kitchen. They also get malaria, from mosquitoes in a lagoon next to the building. Garbage tossed from the building has carpeted the lagoon. Three neighborhood children have wandered into the garbage in the last two years and drowned.
"I am not happy at all, but there is no way out," said Mr. Domingo, 48, who has a doctorate in political science from the University of Bombay, runs a private English language school and has been living in the building for eight years. "I have to live according to the reality of my country now."
For decades, reality in Angola has been ruled by the paradox of plenty: oil wealth has helped to pay for an endless war between President Eduardo dos Santos, who heads the government, and his bitter foe, Jonas Savimbi, leader of the Unita rebels. That, in turn, has increased poverty and ill health for almost all Angolans. This country has the world's highest rate of citizens maimed by land mines (1 out of every 133). One third of children die before age 5; life expectancy is just 42 years.
If the paradox holds, Angola is ripe for even more misery. Recent offshore discoveries have made it one of the hottest oil-producing countries in the world. Production will probably double in the next five years.
For the United States and other gasoline-hungry Western countries, oil makes Angola more than merely another troubled country in Africa. It already accounts for 7 percent of America's annual petroleum consumption, and probably at least 10 percent by 2005.
Mr. Domingo's stinking apartment tower in downtown Luanda is anything but exceptional. The capital has four million residents but only about 20,000 of them have running water or modern toilets. At low tide along the Marginale, the walkway that curves along Luanda's bay on the Atlantic, the smell of sewage is so overpowering it is hard to walk without becoming nauseated.
Experts say the government could easily afford to build a sewage treatment plant and pipe drinking water into the city. There are two rivers nearby and the war is far from the capital. By default, millions of poor people in Luanda pay up to 10,000 times more for drinking water than the elite, who can turn on the tap.
Every night, the police and soldiers seal off the center of the capital, home to the ruling elite of about 30 families. The government does not want angry people invading the better neighborhoods after dark.
Across this Texas-sized, mineral-rich and immensely fertile country, the government offers its 12 million citizens social inequity and repression. More than two-thirds of Angolan children reach adulthood with four years of schooling or less. Illiteracy rates -- 50 percent for men, 70 percent for women -- are high by African standards and rising. The children of elite families in the government, meanwhile, study abroad on state scholarships, which in recent years have consumed up to 36 percent of all government spending on education.
Last year, according to American government officials, Angola's rulers spent about half of a $900 million windfall in oil earnings on weapons, many of which were purchased purely for kickback potential. These officials say that Angola's leaders apparently stole a substantial part of what they did not spend on weapons. International banking officials say the $900 million was not recorded in the country's published budget.
American oil company executives joke bitterly that they pay for Angola's main community development program: the transfer of money to banks in Zurich and Geneva.
BP Amoco, Chevron, Exxon Mobil and 24 other oil companies are planning to invest about $19 billion here over the next decade in deep-water offshore drilling rigs. There is widespread nervousness among publicly held multinational companies that bad publicity about corruption, social injustice and human rights abuse in Angola could threaten these investments.
Oil executives remember the consumer boycott that stung Shell when it was linked in the early 1990's to the human rights abuses of Nigeria's military rulers and the hanging of a prominent dissident.
"We know we are going to be under huge scrutiny," said David Rice, a senior political adviser in London for BP Amoco, which last year joined three other oil companies in paying a $350 million "signing bonus" for rights to an offshore field. "This is a wonderful cocktail for global public attention: oil, diamonds, civil war and land mines. If we are seen to be part of the problem, we have lost it. We have to be seen as part of the solution."
The State Department and the International Monetary Fund are pushing Angola to carry out reforms that would open up the economy and spend far more oil money on social services.
"There is a decision that they are going to have to make," an administration official said. "If they are serious about wanting to reconstruct their country, they are going to have play by a different set of rules than they have in the past."
For decades, the Angolan government pointed to the civil war as an excuse for all failings. The war with Unita, which began before Angola's independence in 1975, soaked up most of the oil money while ruining the country's infrastructure.
The government, though, finally seems to be winning. Unita has been pushed out of the diamond-rich Cuango River valley. Military analysts say rebels no longer have the diamond revenue necessary to pay for major ground operations.
As oil production ramps up and fighting ramps down, war is no longer an all-purpose excuse for bad government, as President dos Santos himself acknowledged in a recent speech.
The government has announced $250 million in new programs to rebuild infrastructure and grant loans to small businesses. For the first time, it has promised the I.M.F. that it will allow outside auditors to examine the way it spends oil money.
The I.M.F. and the United States government are prepared to accept a deal that would ignore past corruption and insist only on openness in the future.
The United States needs Angola's oil, and American officials concede that this need dampens their willingness to criticize the government or demand too much, too fast. "That is realism," a State Department official said.
In other respects, Angola seems impervious to the greater openness now seen across much of Africa. When a few people assembled in the streets of Luanda in February to protest a government-ordered, 1,600-percent increase in gas prices, the police beat them with clubs. An Angolan journalist and human rights campaigner, Rafael Marques, was sentenced the end of March to six months in jail for writing an article accusing Angola's president of corruption.
The change in oil accounting, if it happens, will reduce corruption, but will not affect arms deals and other business, said Gerald J. Bender, an associate professor of international relations at the University of Southern California and an expert on Angola. "I don't think there is ever going to be transparency in that," he said.
A number of companies, including Chevron, Exxon Mobil and BP Amoco, have built schools, orphanages and health clinics in Angola. But they are scarcely in a position to demand social reforms from the government as a condition for expanding oil production.
In the end, consumers are more interested in gasoline than Angola's social problems, said an American oil executive who has worked in Luanda for years.
"You cannot expect oil to hit our shores at a reasonable cost with conditions placed on what the equity holders must do to extract that oil," he said. "Angola will say 'forget it,' and take their oil elsewhere."
In his high-rise slum in downtown Luanda, Mr. Domingo, too, is reluctant to say anything remotely critical about the government. As a squatter, he could be ordered out of his building at any time. "Now," he said, "is the time to keep quiet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a Luanda slum, a lagoon is covered by trash thrown from a 17-story building that has no plumbing or garbage pickup. In the last two years, three children have wandered into the garbage and drowned. (Joao Silva/Sygma, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Angola shows the location of Luanda: In Luanda, four million people live mostly without modern amenities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: ANGOLA (99%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (77%); 

CITY: LUANDA, ANGOLA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (99%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (77%); LUANDA, ANGOLA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); CHILD SOLDIERS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (75%); MALARIA (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: ANTONIO DODGE DOMINGO (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



229 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Kofi Annan's Millennial Vision

 BODY:
Part of Kofi Annan's job as secretary general of the United Nations is to think big thoughts about the future of the planet. Last week he made the most of that responsibility by outlining an audacious vision for the world organization in the 21st century. It would be easy to dismiss Mr. Annan's comprehensive vision as, in his own words, "absurdly ambitious." But it deserves a wide audience.
In a report setting the agenda for a millennium assembly in New York in September to which all the world's leaders are invited, Mr. Annan reiterated his advocacy of environmental protection, military interventions to stop genocide and mass murder, and curbs on weapons proliferation. But his most intriguing appeals focused on imaginative efforts among states, nongovernmental organizations and the private sector to fight poverty and disease. 
 Mr. Annan is right to suggest that the U.N. take the lead in bringing the Internet and other information technologies to poor nations. Throughout the developing world the Internet can greatly enhance access to markets, government efficiency and education at all levels. He announced plans to create an innovative volunteer corps, the United Nations Information Technology Service, to train groups in developing countries to use the Internet. He proposed an Internet health-care network for 10,000 on-line terminals in hospitals and clinics to provide access to medical information.
Mr. Annan stakes out worthy goals for the next 15 years: to halve the proportion of the world's people -- currently one in five -- whose income is less than a dollar a day, and to halve the proportion of people -- also one in five -- without access to safe drinking water. He endorses a World Bank plan to improve the lives of 100 million slum dwellers by 2020. He proposes that the U.N. work with the pharmaceutical industry and other partners to develop an affordable vaccine against AIDS, and sets a goal of reducing H.I.V. infection rates among young adults by 25 percent in 10 years.
No doubt the world will fall far short of these targets. Only a day after Mr. Annan's report was released, the U.N. Development Program concluded that there has been little progress in combatting poverty in the last five years. The main impediments, it found, were corrupt and authoritarian governments. The Clinton administration should heed Mr. Annan's call to drop trade barriers against exports from the least developed countries, a view the White House now opposes. America and other industrialized countries should also lift the debt of poor nations. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); TELEHEALTH (72%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); HEALTH CARE (70%); VACCINES (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); SLUM DWELLINGS (68%); HOSPITALS (65%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (64%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



230 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Germans Seek Foreign Labor For New Era Of Computers

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 8

 BODY:
Vinod Kymar, the political counselor at the Indian Embassy here, is a puzzled man. Never in his many years in Germany has he read so much about his country in the press, nor found so much of it to be nonsense.
"High technology seems to have suddenly become synonymous with India here," Mr. Kymar said. "But the Germans are waking up about a decade late. The United States has already taken the cream of our talented computer people. All that remains for the Germans are leftovers." 
 India's occupation of center-stage in Germany's political debates began a few weeks ago with an apparently offhand remark at a trade fair from Chancellor Gerhard Schroder. He said his country urgently needed new talent in its high-technology sector and should be prepared to give residency documents, or green cards, to brilliant Indians.
The remark reflected a serious issue: underfunded, state-run German universities have been very slow to adapt their traditional curricula to reflect the explosive growth of Internet-related industries. In all of Germany, there is just one newly created chair in e-commerce, at the Goethe University in Frankfurt.
As a result, in a country with more than four million unemployed, there are an estimated 75,000 to 100,000 jobs vacant in the booming Internet sector, with few Germans apparently qualified to fill them. Hence the Social Democratic chancellor's sudden infatuation with Indian software engineers.
"We urgently need new programmers and developers for our projects, but we generally find the German education with its focus on heavy philosophical concepts does not turn out the people we want," said Amelie Heinrichsdorff of Acotec, a start-up software company based in Berlin. "We think globally and would like to hire talent wherever we can."
The dot-com view of the world is still far from that of Germany's opposition Christian Democratic Party. When the government began drafting a law to allow up to 20,000 foreign computer specialists into Germany with green cards, an outcry erupted.
Jurgen Ruttgers, a leading Christian Democrat, produced a campaign slogan in Germany's largest state, North Rhine-Westphalia, saying, "Children instead of Indians." Chancellor Schroder described the posters as "indecent and economically damaging."
Later, Mr. Ruttgers refined his message slightly, urging, "More education instead of more immigration." He was supported by the substantial wing of his party that remains deeply opposed to the idea of Germany as a "land of immigration," despite the fact that more than seven million foreigners live here.
But the difficulties of the Christian Democrats' anti-foreigner message became evident when Dieter Hundt, the head of the powerful employers' federation, lambasted Mr. Ruttgers' campaign as "poorly thought out and miserably populistic."
The sight of big business and conservative Christian Democracy tearing each other to shreds is novel in Germany. But then this is a time of substantial political and cultural shift, with the Social Democrats adopting many pro-business measures and many Germans developing a sudden infatuation with the Internet. Yet even the government's methods appear marked by bureaucratic hesitations of old.
Walter Riester, the Social Democratic labor minister, has proposed limiting the stays of the new green-card immigrants to an initial period of three and a maximum of five years. He also wants to shape the proposed law so that jobs would be offered to foreigners only after an extensive search has been made for a qualified German.
But Antje Radcke, a leader of the Green Party, which is the junior partner in the coalition government, said such proposals were far too cumbersome. "If we should have learned one thing from the experience of the 'gastarbeiters' who started coming here in the 1960's, it is that attempts to try to limit the stays of people are doomed to failure." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (99%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOREIGN LABOR (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); CURRICULA (72%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (58%); TRADE SHOWS (54%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



231 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Port Aransas Journal;
Residents Reassessing Spring Rite Of Students

BYLINE: By ROSS E. MILLOY

DATELINE: PORT ARANSAS, Tex., April 3

 BODY:
Out on the back porch of Woody's bait stand, in a salt-thick breeze off the Gulf of Mexico, Johnny Mathews, a fishing guide, flicks the foam from a cold beer and weighs in on the topic of students on spring break: "It's not that they're bad people. They just don't know how to act like normal people."
By normal, he means like native Texans. 
 An estimated 300,000 college students or families celebrating spring vacations have come and gone from the sandy Gulf beaches that stretch 100 miles from here to South Padre Island.
And left behind are mounds of trash, some alcohol casualties recovering in emergency rooms, and a debate rekindled every year by residents of the Texas coast: Is the annual raucous, crowded rite of spring really worth the money, and the aggravation?
Because towns like Port Aransas and South Padre thrive primarily on the tourist trade, one would think that any visitor with a credit card would be highly prized.
But with the economy in full blossom and with the residents increasingly restless about rapid growth in their once-small communities, the value of crowds is being debated.
"Cities that once fought over the spring break crowd are now becoming a lot more selective, particularly when it comes to the college kids," said Ann Vaughan, a Chamber of Commerce executive in this weather-beaten fishing village of 2,100 people, which had 100,000 visitors last month.
Problems with traffic, lewdness and general rowdiness, particularly among college students, have prompted Port Aransas to change the focus of its marketing away from students, she said.
"They can come if they want to, but they have to play by our rules," Ms. Vaughan said.
"Give us the families and let the students go to South Padre," says Larry Stimson, captain of a bay fishing vessel called the Island Queen, who has lived in both cities.
"The families will come with a set amount of money and spend every bit on beer, hotels, restaurants, fishing trips, and other tourist stuff," Mr. Stimson said.
"But the students bring their own beer, sleep on the beach, and just might buy a loaf of bread and some bologna. They don't have any money, so you can't get any out of them," he said.
Other cities have come to this conclusion. Fort Lauderdale, Fla., once attracted as many as 350,000 students on spring break. But Nicki Grossman, president of the Convention and Visitor's Bureau, says, "Now, we don't even like to see Fort Lauderdale and the 's' word used in the same sentence."
This year, Fort Lauderdale attracted only 15,000 students out of 550,000 visitors in March, she said. "We got rid of MTV and got rid of the wet T-shirt volleyball games," she added. "When MTV went, the lemmings went with it. We felt that if the kids could graduate, so could we."
Ms. Grossman said open container laws, police visibility, and a half-billion dollars in beach clean-up programs and community investments made it possible to discourage the student crowd and attract the more lucrative family vacation business.
"The college student business was worth about $110 million a year at its peak, but the current family market we cater to brings in between $450 and $500 million," Ms. Grossman said. "If the weather stays good and the kids stay away, everything's fine for us."
South Padre Island has become known as a vacation destination among students, and the resident population of 2,000 swells to nearly 200,000 during spring break, says Jennifer Beck of the Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Dr. Vern Vincent of the University of Texas Pan American at Edinburg says last year's crowd resulted in $700,000 in sales and hotel tax revenues to South Padre.
"Spring break comes during the off-season and it really helps the local businesses," he said.Everyone benefits from having the spring breakers there."
But there are problems.
Charles Morrison of the South Padre Police Department said his office arrested 530 people during this year's spring break, up from the normal 15 to 20 monthly arrests. "Most of those are driving while intoxicated arrests, and virtually all of those are students," he said.
Back on the porch at Woody's, Mr. Mathews, who has lived his entire life in Port Aransas, said that even though he finds the spring visitors' habits peculiar, particularly their driving, the economic benefit of their presence is worth the inconvenience.
And that includes the college students. "You just have to learn to go where they're not," he said.
But for some residents, any visitors are too many. A popular bumper sticker asks: "If it's called tourist season, why can't we just shoot them?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Gulf Coast residents in Texas, spring break memories, like those of the traffic on Padre Island, linger. (David Pellerin/Corpus Christi Caller Times)
 
Map of Texas shows the location of Port Aransas: Gulf coast beaches are crowded with students each spring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BEACHES (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (74%); TOURISM (73%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); RESTAURANTS (61%); 

PERSON: NICKI GROSSMAN (70%); LARRY STIMSON (56%); ANN VAUGHAN (56%); JOHNNY MATHEWS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



232 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Good Times Could Burden An Incumbent In Greek Vote

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

DATELINE: ATHENS, April 8

 BODY:
For Greeks, their economy, their standing in Europe and even their tense relationship with Turkey are better now than at any time since World War II.
And it is this new confidence that could be the biggest liability for Costas Simitis, the Socialist prime minister, in what has shaped up to be an extremely close race for re-election on Sunday against his challenger, Costas Karamanlis, leader of the center-right New Democracy Party. 
 While Greek voters may be more or less satisfied with Mr. Simitis and his party, Pasok, those who are weary of the Socialists' long lock on power and secure enough now to look for change, may be tempted to take a risk and select a fresh, if untested, face, analysts say.
"Voters are making up their minds on something that is not discussed in public and cannot actually be done at the polls," said Thanos Veremis, a political analyst who heads a foreign policy research group in Athens. "How to change the government without getting rid of Simitis? Greeks are happy with him, but they are tired of the Pasok party's rule and the corruption that comes with longevity."
The choice is made more tempting still by the closeness of the candidates economic and foreign policy platforms. Both espouse the same fundamental choices for Greece -- cooperation with the United States and other NATO allies, and cautious rapprochement with Turkey and fiscal restraint to meet prerequisites for membership in the European Union's joint currency, the euro.
The campaign itself has focused on unemployment, health care, schools and the feverishly volatile Greek stock market, which boomed last year but has since plummeted, enraging small-time investors.
Pasok has held power since 1981, interrupted only between 1990 and 1993. Elected in 1996, Mr. Simitis, 64, quickly shed the welfare state policies and passionately anti-American rhetoric of his flamboyant predecessor, Andreas Papandreou.
Like Prime Minister Tony Blair in Britain, he moved his party toward the center. Two years ago, the Greek economy fell embarrassingly short of the minimum standards for the euro. Greece has since caught up, cutting inflation, public debt and interest rates and stabilizing the drachma, and it is almost certain to be included to use the euro next January.
That success could work against Mr. Simitis, since he called early elections on the grounds that Greece needed a stable, experienced government to lead it to the euro. Greeks already believe that has been done.
Mr. Karamanlis, 43, a lawyer who studied foreign policy in the United States and is fluent in English, does not suggest he would do differently, just better. "We are the authentic expression of a European orientation," he said at a campaign rally at the Olympic Stadium in Athens on Thursday.
He complained when Greece supported Turkey's effort to be considered for membership in the European Union, saying the government had failed to wring enough concessions from Turkey. But those nationalist sentiments seem mainly aimed at garnering votes. He assured American academics at a private lunch last year at his alma mater, the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy in Boston, that Turkey belonged in Europe, using the same pragmatic language as the Greek foreign minister, George Papandreou.
During the NATO bombing campaign in Kosovo, which was fiercely opposed by almost all Greeks, New Democracy again sought to tap into popular sentiment by fiercely denouncing the United States and its allies, at times echoing the rhetoric of Greece's small, hard-line Communist Party. But few in Greece believe that if Mr. Karamanlis were elected, he would reverse the current government's foreign policy.
Mr. Karamanlis, who has spent his career in New Democracy Party politics, is mostly counting on voters' thirst for change. But his chief credential is his lineage as the nephew and namesake of Konstantinos Karamanlis, the founder of New Democracy and a legendary former president and prime minister who coaxed the European Union to accept Greek membership in 1981, six years ahead of Spain or Portugal.
The absence of polarizing policy disputes has forced a curious reversal of roles -- Mr. Simitis campaigned as a capitalist while Mr. Karamanlis moved left, portraying himself as the champion of labor unions, farmers and other constituencies usually claimed by Socialist parties. But his chances mainly rest on whether voters will trust him to competently execute policies Mr. Simitis pushed through.
Many have not yet made up their minds. "I will decide at the last minute," Maria Christodulakou, 36, a schoolteacher in Sparta, said today. "They do not really differ," she explained. "I don't think there is a big risk if either man is elected." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KOSTAS KARAMANLIS (77%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



233 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Teen Startup: 18 and Wired For Business

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE executives of the company running the school district's computer system don't need to be told a thing about the network or fiber-optic cables or even which teacher is all thumbs on a mouse. All they need is a call every morning about 8 from the district secretary, Pat Raynor, to make sure they're awake.
That's what the district gets for hiring a couple of teenagers. 
 Kris Sims and Sean Myrden, both 18 and 1999 Riverhead High School graduates, are president and treasurer of Eastern Digital Intranet Services. Last week the school board accepted their $73,940 proposal to oversee the Long Island district's 600-computer network for a year. And why not?
They helped build the system as 16-year-old interns and maintained it as technicians after graduating. When the school board terminated the contract of its technology director earlier this year, they bid against five companies, some boasting long experience and millions in annual sales.
But it's hard to bid lower than two guys living with their parents.
"I don't know if either of them has a mortgage," said Bryon Duffy, the adult president of Tech2Logic, which bid $170,000. "They don't need the big bucks other people need."
Need is not in Kris and Sean's vocabulary. Boys in the wonderland of technology, they followed a youthful fascination to big prizes. They've forgone college and other trappings of an old economy that, for them, might as well be an exhibit at the Museum of Natural History.
"I would like the college experience," said Kris, who tried a few months at Suffolk County Community College. "But at 18, I feel like I'm beyond that. Maybe I'll go to college when I'm 30, when I'm retired."
They met in high school, both drawn to rock 'n' roll and computers. Sean, whose father is a computer consultant, helped wire computers as a child. Kris fell hard for them at 14. In their working-class town, they were always scouting odd jobs. After pestering school officials, they were hired as interns between their sophomore and junior years and helped install hundreds of computers. They became indispensable. Between classes they were pulled away to solve computer problems. After graduating, they became $50-an-hour technicians. Now, Kris said, "we're situated."
Young and wired, the teenagers' world view is all giddy exuberance and serious money.
They considered Silicon Valley after hearing of a school employee's relative whose salary and stock options there made him rich on paper. "Thirteen million or $1.3 million," Kris said. "Some big number."
When Kris mentioned a building they saw as a possible headquarters one day, Sean interjected, "Someone bought that."
"Really?" Kris said, briefly disappointed. "Oh well, everything's always for sale."
Kris, the exuberant partner, said: "I would be personally happy if I made $100,000. Well, probably $80,000 I'd be happy with." This year.
BRASH, perhaps, but in six months last year they made about $80,000. Their contract allows for extra pay for additional school projects. Opportunities elsewhere seem plentiful. Their competitors for the contract hardly wrote them off. Some offered them jobs.
Robert J. Holmes, the Riverhead Central School District superintendent, is thrilled that local boys made good, but said they pose a challenge to educators: "How do we accommodate the kids who are very bright but say, 'Sorry, I don't have time for the traditional stuff.' "
The boys are not fretting. Kris has a Corvette. Sean has a Lexus. They're in a rock 'n' roll band. They're the hottest startup in Riverhead. "I wear khakis every day and eat at McDonalds," Kris said. "It's a field like no other. It's run by young people. It's not an institution yet. It's not run by suits."
Sean's father, John, said he told his son: "Remember these events. Remember these times. They don't happen that often."
Sean, working at his computer, "looked at me like I was crazy," Mr. Myrden said. "I could see the 18-year-old in him saying: 'This is going to happen all the time. We're going to make this happen.' " 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FIBER OPTICS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); INTRANETS (55%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



234 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: On an Upstate Road Trip, Mrs. Clinton Says She Has Found Evidence of Crossover Support

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

DATELINE: OWEGO, N.Y., April 8

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton, apparently bolstered by an uptick in support from upstate voters, said today at two small-town campaign stops that she saw evidence that many Republicans would cross party lines to back her Senate bid.
"I've had more and more Republicans coming up to me," Mrs. Clinton told 50 Democrats who had gathered for a brief stopover at an Italian restaurant in this Tioga County village. "They came, both men and women, and said they would support my campaign both because they really want to continue the policies of the president, and because they want somebody in the Senate who will work with everyone in New York." 
 Earlier in the day, Mrs. Clinton made almost identical remarks at the annual Broome County Democratic Party Breakfast in Endwell, a suburb of Binghamton. Responding to reporters here, she said her evidence of growing Republican support was "just anecdotal." She said supporters she had met on this two-day road trip from Rochester to the Binghamton area "identified themselves as Republicans, and that is gratifying to me."
Mrs. Clinton also focused briefly on the upstate Republican vote in her final campaign appearance today in Corning, where she addressed 500 people at a meeting of the New York State Democratic Rural Caucus. She attended the event with H. Carl McCall, the Democratic State Comptroller, who is widely expected to run for governer in 2002.
Repeating an earlier pledge to campaign in all of the state's 62 counties before the November election, and saying she had already visited 51, Mrs. Clinton told the Corning group, "I want to convert a lot of those rural Republicans."
In other remarks, Mrs. Clinton sought to ally herself with moderates and fiscal conservatives within her own party. At one point in her Binghamton speech, in which she pointed to the success of the White House in reducing the federal deficit and invoked Franklin D. Roosevelt's phrase "rendezvous with destiny," saying she advocated a "rendezvous with responsibility" in fiscal policy.
Mrs. Clinton also took several occasions during her campaign stops today and on Friday to portray herself as someone with long experience in upstate New York. In describing her advocacy of more stringent gun control, she said she had spent "every summer" of her youth at a cottage on a lake near Scranton, Pa., and had frequently visited Binghamton. "I was taught how to shoot, not well I admit," she said, adding that she had "nothing against gun ownership, and nothing against hunting or sport shooting." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC RURAL CAUCUS (73%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC RURAL CAUCUS (73%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); FIREARMS (64%); GUN CONTROL (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



235 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Cloud on Fujimori's Future Shadows Voting in Peru

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 8

 BODY:
For a decade, President Alberto K. Fujimori has been Latin America's master of crisis management, defeating terrorist insurrections, hyperinflation and drug traffickers, as well as settling a 150-year border dispute with neighboring Ecuador.
But as 14 million voters decide on Sunday whether these successes should translate into five more years in office, Mr. Fujimori faces his most serious political crisis since he shut down the Congress and Supreme Court at the height of the guerrilla war in 1992. 
 Even if he ekes out a first-round election victory, diplomats and experts say, the campaign has been so marred by dirty tricks and legal irregularities that Mr. Fujimori will emerge a weakened leader. Several leading pollsters say a first-round win is unlikely unless the president resorts to fraud, and election observers have already received reports of preparations to steal the vote.
"The accumulation of irregularities has meant that even if the vote goes without fraud, President Fujimori's third term will be seen as illegitimate here and abroad," said Eduardo Stein, a former Guatemalan foreign minister, who is leading an 80-member Organization of American States observation team.
"This was not a fair competition," he added, "and if the landscape of campaign irregularities is replicated on the day of the vote, it will be a disaster."
The outcome is important not only to Peru, where the little real debate and independent media coverage the campaign has generated has been infused by discussion of the legitimacy of the electoral process itself.
It is also likely to reverberate throughout a region where many countries are still struggling to define the quality of their democracies. This is particularly so in Venezuela, where another elected strongman who has bent his country's democratic rules, President Hugo Chavez, is facing a growing challenge in an election set for May.
A stolen victory would also place the United States in the awkward position of having to decide whether to censure an important ally in the effort to wipe out the drug trafficking and insurgency that threaten the government in nearby Colombia.
The challenge to Mr. Fujimori is being led by Alejandro Toledo, a 54-year-old business school professor whose rise from humble roots has helped spur his popularity. He has also capitalized on the growing concerns about the campaign as well as grumbling over three years of particularly bad economic hardship.
Press and television smear campaigns believed to be directed by Mr. Fujimori's intelligence service destroyed the candidacies of two leading opponents.
The campaign has been dominated over the last three months by a scandal over the forgery of a million signatures to put Mr. Fujimori on the ballot, egg-throwing mobs at opposition rallies and microphones that went dead in the middle of opponents' speeches. There have also been persistent reports from around the country that recipients of government milk and cereal handouts have been threatened with a cutoff if they do not vote for the president.
As Mr. Fujimori tried feverishly to stop Mr. Toledo, television networks owned by allies of the president began broadcasting a comedian impersonating the challenger sitting next to a whiskey bottle. Nude dancers appeared at a Toledo campaign rally this week with television cameras in tow for live broadcasts, inspiring speculation by many Peruvians and senior foreign election observers that the dancers were planted by the Fujimori campaign.
At the same time, an active duty army officer was assigned to fetch a young girl from the provinces said to be the illegitimate daughter of Mr. Toledo for a television talk show. And the government began an investigation into the residency visa of Mr. Toledo's wife, Eliane Karp, a Belgian-born American citizen.
Mr. Toledo has denied the charges leveled against him, and pollsters say he has surged in recent days in Lima, a Fujimori stronghold with more than a third of the nation's votes. Mr. Toledo has vowed that he will cry fraud should he lose.
The campaign irregularities have been severely criticized by the Clinton administration, the Organization of American States and several public interest groups like the Atlanta-based Carter Center.
Senior diplomats here are already discussing calls for a new election and for withdrawing recognition of the government by the Organization of American States. Peru's mounting political problems will confront the organization with one of its biggest tests in years, its officials said privately. They said they expected Canada and the United States to try to mediate any conflict.
"It's a moment of great crisis for the regime," said Enrique Zileri, editor of Caretas, Peru's leading political magazine. "If Fujimori wins in the first round, a government that is totally isolated and lacking legitimacy would result."
Questions about the election process began emerging in May 1997, when Congress dismissed three members of the Constitutional Tribunal who had ruled that the law forbade Mr. Fujimori from running for a third term. The opposition assembled enough signatures to force a referendum on a third term in 1998, when Congress, tightly controlled by Mr. Fujimori, ruled that two-thirds of the legislators would also have to approve of a referendum, sinking the vote.
By the time Mr. Fujimori announced his candidacy last December, the opposition had no way of challenging the legality of his campaign. There has been sporadic violence over the issue, , but no leader has emerged to channel the discontent.
Now Mr. Toledo, who has said the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. is his hero, says he is ready to lead a vast civil disobedience movement to protest the results should he lose.
He has made a special plea to the army and police to guard the elections. And to make his candidacy more attractive to them, he has promised to raise police salaries and allow military personnel to vote in the future. His pleas have been backed by senior retired military officers who oppose Mr. Fujimori, and there are reports of discontent about the electoral process among middle-rank army officers.
International observers have already expressed fears of an organized effort by Mr. Fujimori's allies to steal the election.
The Organization of American States observer team has received numerous reports indicating that backers of Mr. Fujimori are training hand-picked poll watchers in how to mangle vote tally sheets that have large Toledo vote counts so that they will be disqualified. In 1995, 8 percent of tally sheets were disqualified in the presidential vote and 40 percent in the vote for Congress, enough to guarantee Mr. Fujimori's control, according to election observers.
Other international observers have received reports that voters dependent on government food and social programs have been given ballots already marked for Mr. Fujimori and his congressional slate. The voters -- observers say they are not sure how many may be involved -- have been instructed to return the blank ballots they receive at the voting places for payments ranging from about $1.50 to $3.
Observers say that fewer than half of the 88,000 voting tables will be monitored by independent election inspectors. They also note that, after being counted, ballots are immediately destroyed on election day, depriving observers crucial evidence of potential fraud. Tally sheets, however, will be preserved.
In an effort to detect fraud, a local group, Transparencia, financed by the Clinton administration and several other foreign governments, will announce its own estimate of the vote count Sunday night from thousands of sample voting tables.
"They have problems," Carlos Tapia, formerly a lecturer at the Army Superior Intelligence School, said of the Fujimori campaign. "They can fudge 4 or 5 percent of the vote, but no more."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Several leading pollsters say a first-round victory for President Alberto K. Fujimori in today's election is unlikely unless he resorts to fraud. Mr. Fujimori, who seeks a third term, campaigned in Ayacucho last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); SCANDALS (75%); ELECTION MONITORING (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



236 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Pressure Is Raised on Cuban Boy's Kin

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
The Clinton administration is inexorably increasing the pressure on the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez to reunite him with his father -- and hoping it happens without resistance.
President Clinton, who has reason to be chary of the lingering cold war passions that divide the United States and Cuba, has tried to moderate the tensions set off by the case of the Cuban boy. But the Justice Department, with the White House's concurrence, has nonetheless made ever more clear that the government's patience is nearing its end. 
 The major question facing administration officials at this point is whether persuasion alone will bring about a peaceful transfer of the boy next week, or whether it will take the force of law to overcome defiance among the Miami relatives and their crowds of supporters.
A White House official said today that a number of plans had been prepared for the handover of Elian to his father, including his removal from the home of Miami relatives by armed federal marshals. The official added that it was the hope of everyone in the government that the return of Elian to his father's custody would be accomplished voluntarily and peacefully.
The official said: "Are we capable of enforcing this action by force? Yes. Does anybody want to see that happen? No."
The Justice Department said today that the father would meet on Sunday with three three psychiatric experts who are to visit with the Miami relatives the next day, all part of the preparations to transfer custody of Elian.
For Mr. Clinton, the Cuban issue has been a problem for two decades. Mr. Clinton links his 1980 re-election defeat as governor of Arkansas in part to rioting among 20,000 Cuban refugees temporarily resettled at Fort Chaffee, Ark., by the Carter administration.
As president, Mr. Clinton has walked a careful line on relations with Cuba, at once offering modest steps to increase cooperation and travel between the two countries while maintaining the strict 38-year-old economic embargo on the island.
Acting on cue from the president, officials from the White House, State Department and Justice Department all expressed hope in public and private this week that the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who arrived here on Thursday from Cuba, could work out an amicable custody deal with his Miami relatives, who have kept Elian since he was rescued at sea last Thanksgiving.
Elian's mother, Elizabet Brotons, died when their boat sank as they fled Cuba.
The administration does not relish the idea of Cuban-American Miami rebelling over the repatriation of Elian. But neither does it want to jeopardize a slow and delicate diplomatic opening to Havana begun last year.
Even as other agencies are handling the emotional issue of the shipwrecked boy, the State Department is trying to manage an incremental opening to Havana. Last year, the administration announced that it would permit additional charter flights to Cuba from the United States and would approve significantly more visas for researchers, athletes, journalists, artists and students to travel to Cuba.
The Baltimore Orioles played an exhibition game against the Cuban national team last spring and other sports events are planned.
The United States is also quietly seeking broader cooperation with Cuba on immigration, drug smuggling, the environment and human rights matters.
Mr. Clinton has repeatedly said that the case will be handled under existing immigration law, most likely resulting in Elian's return to Cuba with his father and his stepmother, Nercy Carmenate Castillo.
A senior White House official said that administration officials were of one mind on the matter -- with the exception of Vice President Al Gore, who last week broke with the president and announced that he wanted the case moved into Florida family court, where Elian's relatives in Miami might have a better chance of winning permanent custody.
"There's no split in the administration over what we hope happens," the official said. "There is great concern if the family in Miami seeks a confrontation, there's no telling what direction this could go in."
Robert Pastor, who handled Latin American policy at the National Security Council under President Jimmy Carter, said that Mr. Clinton should harbor little hope of separating the Gonzalez case from 40 years of pained history between the United States and Cuba.
Mr. Pastor also noted that Cuban-American tensions always seemed to rise in election years and that this case offered no exception.
"There is no U.S.-Cuban issue that is not politicized," said Mr. Pastor, now a professor of political science at Emory University in Atlanta. "The United States and Cuba have been contesting a divorce for 41 years, so it's not surprising that this would be the mother of all custody fights."
Mr. Pastor said the riots at Fort Chaffee in June 1980, which left more than 40 Cubans and Arkansas law-enforcement officers injured, had caused a strain in relations between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Carter that took years to heal.
Mr. Clinton blamed Mr. Carter for sending thousands of Cubans to Arkansas without adequate provision for their security.
Mr. Clinton's defeat in 1980 remains to this day his biggest electoral disappointment.
A diplomat monitoring the case at the State Department said that officials there were "happily out of the picture." He expressed hope that Justice Department and immigration officers could persuade the families to agree to a peaceful transfer of Elian to his father's care.
Justice Department officials have said that while they believe the department has authority to order the boy's immediate handover to his father, officials were trying to handle the case in a "sensitive" manner and would be willing to accept a few days' delay to accommodate the wishes of Miami family members.
But they have now set a schedule for meetings on Monday to discuss the methods of the handover, with the boy's return to his father coming shortly after that.
"The administration has to handle this very delicately because of the intensity of feelings, and it's not going to be easy," Mr. Pastor said. "It's not going to be easy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicki Martin of Madison, Wis., which has a sister city relationship with Camaguey, Cuba, visited yesterday with Juan Miguel Gonzalez, right, in Bethesda, Md. He is staying there at the home of a Cuban diplomat. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); REFUGEES (77%); MARSHALS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (63%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



237 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Dim View Of U.S. Is Evolving Into Frank Hostility

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY

DATELINE: PARIS, April 8

 BODY:
Just read the title of his new book and you'll get an idea of Noel Mamere's perspective: "No Thanks, Uncle Sam."
Mr. Mamere, an outspoken though hardly extreme member of the French Parliament, has devoted an entire book to his argument that America is a worrisome society these days. It has a record number of armed citizens. It embraces the death penalty, turns the poor away when they need medical care, and its legislators have failed to approve a nuclear test ban. Yet, argues Mr. Mamere, the United States throws its weight around and would have the entire world follow in its steps. 
 At this moment, he says in his closing chapter, "it is appropriate to be downright anti-American."
In France, indeed in Europe, Mr. Mamere is by no means alone in his criticism of the United States. Wander a French bookstore these days and you will find any number of catchy titles ("The World Is Not Merchandise," "Who Is Killing France? The American Strategy," "American Totalitarianism" to name a few) deploring the American way -- from its creation of a society ruled by profit to depictions of the United States as an unchecked force on its way to ruling the world. The books are only one sign of what experts say is a growing backlash of anti-Americanism. More and more often, Europeans talk about America as a menacing, even dangerous force intent on remaking the world in its image. And, like Mr. Mamere, many members of Europe's political, cultural and intellectual elite are using a kind of moral calculator to deplore the American model as severely wanting.
Poking fun at America has always been a European pastime, particularly among the French. In the past, Americans have been ridiculed as Bermuda-shorts-wearing louts who call strangers by their first names and know nothing about the good life. But today's criticism is far from being an amusing rejection of food rituals. Experts say that it has a virulence and an element of fear never seen before.
"With the fall of the Berlin Wall, America was left as the only superpower," said Stephane Rozes, the director general of CSA Opinion, which conducts many surveys for news organizations. "And there is a great deal of fear out there that the strength of America's economy will impose not only economic changes but social changes as well. What they see is an America that has the ability to impose its values and they are not values that the Europeans believe in."
The Europeans read menace in a wide range of recent events. Far from seeing America's involvement in Kosovo as a hand of support from across the Atlantic, for instance, many Europeans saw it as an American manipulation of NATO. And the humiliating fact that the intervention would not have been possible without American air power only rammed home the perception of America's military superiority, and of European deficiency.
But suspicion runs high in other areas as well. The Clinton administration's cheerleading -- for instance, its repeated description of the United States as being the "indispensable" nation -- strikes a threatening chord here. And recent disputes such as America's decision last year to impose an import tax on goods like Roquefort cheese and foie gras because the Europeans would not accept hormone-enhanced beef from the United States only fuels the European sense that the United States is a bully.
In Europe, these days, the World Trade Organization -- which sanctioned the American action -- is routinely dismissed as a tool of American interests.
The idea that the United States is already using its vast satellite and spy networks for industrial espionage is readily accepted here, as recent debate in the European Union on the Echelon electronic surveillance system showed. The United States denied the charges, but the European bloc is still mulling an investigation. Again, the size and scope of the surveillance system make Europe feel dwarfed.
Even the recent debacle over picking a managing director for the International Monetary Fund fueled the sense among some Europeans that the United States can do whatever it wants. In Washington, government officials let it be known that they were opposing the first German candidate because, they said, no one in Europe wanted to do the dirty work of pointing out his inadequacies. That version of events did not get much press here. In Germany, the American veto power provoked snide remarks.
"We have discovered that the superpower sees its global role not only in the military area but also in setting the rules of globalization through the I.M.F," pronounced Michael Steiner, chief diplomatic adviser to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, in the middle of the controversy.
To be sure, the average European is embracing much that comes from the United States. Its films, its music, its fashion and, even if no-one in France particularly cares to admit it, its fast food. The weekly best-seller list shows more than half the top selling novels in France are translations of American books. There are frequent complaints of a brain drain as young people flock to Silicon Valley and elsewhere in America to get their start in life.
But at the same time the view of a belligerent United States is growing too. Polls conducted by CSA in the last few years suggest that Europeans have some extremely negative views of the United States. In April last year, 68 percent of the French said they were worried about America's status as a superpower. Only 30 percent said there was anything to admire across the Atlantic. Sixty-three percent said they did not feel close to the American people.
Another CSA poll in September 1998, which compared the attitudes of the Germans, Spanish, French, Italian and British toward the United States, found they had deep reservations too. The Italians seemed to appreciate America the most. But they still showed profound concern about the American model. Between 57 and 60 percent said America's democracy and economy were worth admiring. But 56 to 62 percent said Italians should not look to America for inspiration on their way of life or their culture.
"We have the impression that America has no more enemy," says Michel Winock, a professor at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris who often writes on the subject of anti-Americanism. "It does what it likes now when it wants. Through NATO it directs European affairs. Before we could say we were on America's side. Not now. There is no counterbalance."
On some social issues, the United States and Europe do seem to be going in opposite directions. One that gets a lot of attention is the death penalty, which has either been abolished or suspended by all members of the European Union but is now legal in 38 states. Coming executions are often carefully followed here as examples of barbarism, and American diplomats say they are bombarded with questions about them. The fact that many recent executions have taken place in Texas also colors -- negatively -- European commentators' views of Gov. George W. Bush.
But other aspects of America are deplored too. Essayists have a field day with descriptions of the homeless on the streets, women in jail forced to give birth in handcuffs, drugs, police violence, racism, and what they see as a puritanism that invades people's private lives, the prime example being the Monica Lewinsky affair.
"Never has America been so loved and so hated," says the novelist Pascal Bruckner, who has also written on anti-Americanism. "But in some ways America should be glad. We are not condemning the Russians for a lack of morality. We don't care. They don't count."
Felix Rohatyn says he has felt the change of attitude take place since 1997, when he arrived in Paris as the American ambassador.
"The anti-Americanism today encompasses not a specific policy like Iranian sanctions but a feeling that globalization has an American face on it and is a danger to the European and French view of society," Mr. Rohatyn said in an interview. "There is the sense that America is such an extraordinary power that it can crush everything in its way. It is more frustration and anxiety now than plain anti-Americanism."
Mr. Rohatyn, like many others, says it is hard to measure the consequences of this attitude, though there are no doubt many. "It impacts most things," he said. "Not that it makes transactions impossible, but it certainly puts a different slant on them. It totally negates the notion that our interest is also in their interest. It creates the totally opposite point of view -- that only the weakening of America can be good for them."
Such an attitude, for instance, fed a recent frenzy of concern in France that American pension fund investments in French companies might be promoting layoffs of French workers to benefit American retirees.
"Well, that's just not the case," Mr. Rohatyn said. "That is not the way things work, but it is a perfect example of that anti-American view at work."
Some Americans believe that part of the problem is that globalization has meant an increase in Americans doing business abroad with methods that do not sit well with Europeans. These Americans say they tend to try to cut short discussion and value quick decisions. Europeans tend to take longer and look for consensus.
But the French, and other Europeans, often mention Americans' lack of knowledge about anything European and their unwillingness to learn as a major aggravating factor.
Mr. Bruckner described how when he was living in San Diego his landlady asked him how was his queen, when France has not had one since the 19th century. Mr. Mamere begins his book with a story about how Steve Forbes, at a recent Davos meeting, invoked the image of a Charlemagne who unified Europe two centuries ago. Charlemagne died more than 1,000 years ago and is usually billed as a conqueror, not a unifier.
"Omnipotence and ignorance," Mr. Mamere concludes about America in his first chapter. "It is a questionable cocktail."
Mr. Mamere's book, written with Olivier Warin, has not been published in America, nor does he expect it to be. "It would be great if they read some of what we write, but they do not," he said. "It would be great if they saw what they looked like from over here. But they are not interested. The Americans are so sure of themselves. They think they are the best in the world, that they are way ahead of everyone and everyone needs to learn from them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Riot policemen confronted protesters in Athens demonstrating against President Clinton's visit in November. There is talk in Europe these days of America as a menacing force intent on remaking the world in its image. (Associated Press); Protesters in Paris declared the death penalty a "state crime." (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (94%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (94%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BOOKSTORES (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



238 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Resists Bid To End Tariffs For 3rd World

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
The Clinton administration is opposing a World Bank proposal that would increase exports from the world's poorest and most indebted nations for fear that it would inflame sentiments in Congress against President Clinton's efforts to win passage of an African trade bill and give China permanent normal trading status.
The proposal, pressed by the leaders of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in preparation for their meetings here next week, would allow some of the poorest nations of Africa, Latin America and Asia to sell goods to the United States and other Western nations without facing any tariffs or import quotas. That could provide a huge economic advantage for those developing countries, going significantly beyond the administration's efforts to get Congress to forgive their debts as they undergo economic reforms. 
 The administration's opposition to the proposal comes at an awkward moment, as demonstrators critical of the international lending institutions assemble for a week of protests during their meetings. Many of the protesters believe that the financial groups do too little on behalf of the poorest nations. Page 6.
But as the trade proposal was argued out behind the closed doors of the World Bank and the I.M.F., the administration worked behind the scenes to scuttle it, said World Bank officials involved in the negotiations. Those officials said they believed that the White House feared that if they made such a commitment, it would undercut the delicate support for the Africa trade bill, which has been stuck in Congress, and that any promise of further opening America's markets could undermine the huge effort to persuade Congress to normalize trade with China.
"We are really caught in the middle here," one senior administration official said on Friday, explaining why the White House had refused to endorse a plan that would aid some of the most struggling nations, including Senegal, Nicaragua, Congo, Kenya, Honduras and Nigeria, which pose little competitive threat to American firms.
"The best way to lift nations out of poverty is through trade," the administration official said. "But doing the right thing here is not easy. We can't even get far more modest measures through the Hill."
Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, said she had been unaware of the efforts to water down the World Bank effort. But she said that "the United States has a long record of support for and delivery of preferential trade privileges for least-developed countries."
She said that the United States, working with Europe, Japan and Canada, has proposed an initiative within the World Trade Organization that would take much the same approach as the principles set out by the World Bank.
Such a program, however, would likely be narrower in scope and be enacted only after Congress votes on the Africa and China issues.
The administration's quandary underscores the enormous economic tensions that will be on display in Washington in coming days. Poor nations will argue, as they did in the Seattle meetings three months ago, that the United States and other rich nations are using their prosperity and technology to grow rapidly at the expense of countries being left far behind by economic globalization.
That view is essentially endorsed in several reports prepared for the spring meetings of the World Bank, which fights poverty, and the I.M.F., which intercedes in economic crises.
During his radio address today, President Clinton briefly mentioned his hope that Congress would agree to gradually wipe away the debt of the poorest nations.
But in Congress, where labor unions and others have argued against further opening of American markets at a time of record trade deficits, there is huge resistance to removing tariffs or quotas that protect American industries from low-cost manufacturing abroad.
For example, the Africa trade bill, which passed the Senate last November but never passed the House, now includes requirements that African nations hoping to export more clothing to the United States duty free buy American fabrics. Few could afford to do so, making the opening relatively worthless to African weavers or small manufacturers. (Africa's trade with the United States is comparatively small. The entire continent, excluding South Africa, exports about $13 billion in goods to the United States each year, slightly more than Japan exports here in a month.)
But without such trade restrictions, members of Congress from textile-producing states say they would have to vote against the Africa bill. And the World Bank and I.M.F. proposals would have essentially undercut the bill's protections for American companies, committing the United States, Europe and Japan to unrestricted import of clothing, footwear or other goods from the most indebted nations.
Administration officials said that any such end run would inflame many members of Congress, especially Democrats and threaten the passage of the Africa bill and China's entry into the World Trade Organization, two elements of Mr. Clinton's agenda for his last year in office.
Documents being prepared for discussion at next week's Washington meetings are implicitly critical of how little the world's wealthy nations have done to keep the divide between rich and poor from increasing.
A draft of one such paper, provided to The New York Times by the World Bank, notes that during the Seattle meetings, the head of the bank, James D. Wolfensohn, and the recently retired head of the I.M.F., Michel Camdessus, called on major nations to spur imports from the poorest nations. The paper describes the strategy as a way to reverse the declining trend in foreign aid flows to these countries.
The paper refers to the critical importance of matching debt relief with efforts to encourage exports that earn hard currency.
But diplomats involved in the drafting of the reports say that the wording was toned down at the insistence of the United States and, to a lesser degree, France and Japan. All have a huge sensitivity to opening their markets, particularly for agricultural goods, and particularly in election years, one senior World Bank official said. Instead of strongly recommending market openings, the report simply notes that ministers may wish to comment on the subject. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (76%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (76%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



239 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Protesters Are Back, With a New Target

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
For Beka Economopoulos, a 25-year-old environmental campaigner with a premature streak of gray in her long black hair, the drive to shut down the world's financial institutions began in Seattle's King County Jail.
She and about 250 other women spent five days there shortly after Thanksgiving last year, most of them arrested for refusing to disperse when the Seattle police told them to move on. Inside the cells, they planned an encore. 
 "For five days they only thing we talked about was how to take this to the next level," said Ms. Economopoulos, a Washington native who now spends full time on this mix of environmental and economic causes. "You go through that, you know, and you're hooked."
Many of the people who disrupted the Seattle meeting of the World Trade Organization are reassembling in Washington this week, where they have identified as their targets two older, richer and savvier agents of the global economy: the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Students, church groups, environmentalists and labor unions, a few of them planning to scale buildings and block traffic to make their point, say they want to disrupt the spring meetings of both groups.
The protesters contend that the institutions have destroyed rain forests, left poor countries in debt, and protected Nike, Disney and Monsanto instead of workers in the third world. They estimate that between 10,000 and 30,000 people will join the weeklong demonstrations beginning on Sunday.
That would add a street dimension to a growing political and academic fracas over how to change the two financial institutions and, more broadly, whether globalization is hurting more people than it helps.
In recent months the bank and the fund, which lend tens of billions of dollars each year to poor and middle-income nations, have come under strong pressure to slim down, pay more attention to the side effects of their policies and open up to public scrutiny.
Though the Clinton administration has not reacted officially to the protests, the United States, the largest donor to both agencies, has a great deal at stake. At a time when America is relying increasingly on the bank and the fund to manage the world economy and spread American influence abroad, both agencies have come under attack.
"The U.S. government has long done whatever it wants with these institutions without anybody saying anything," says Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economist who has become a leading critic of the sister institutions. "The tradition that allows the U.S. to create any mission it wants for these institutions is being challenged -- and it should be."
Officials of the World Bank and I.M.F. say that most protesters and many political and academic critics have scant knowledge of what these institutions do, and that the relative health of the global economy these days proves that the institutions are effective. But the attacks have left the bank, the fund and the Clinton administration on the defensive.
"It's clear that globalization has cut into a nerve -- many people want more say and they should get it," said James D. Wolfensohn, the World Bank president. But he adds that protesters tend to extrapolate from a few past mistakes to condemn the whole enterprise.
"On some of the issues they raise, there will just have to be differences of opinion," said Mr. Wolfensohn, a former investment banker who in recent years has championed poverty relief projects. "But people should also know that the bank is a very different place than it was five years ago."
The Washington protests may not mirror the unrest in Seattle, where a rare alchemy of violence and vandalism by a small group of anarchists botched crowd control and disunity among world trade ministers gave opposition groups a notable victory.
But they do seem likely to show the ability of diverse nongovernment organizations to mount a coordinated campaign against a common enemy: globalization as envisioned by traditional, free-market-oriented government economists. Communicating via the Internet, about 450 groups are sponsoring the Washington demonstrations.
At a planning session this week organized by the Mobilization for Global Justice, veterans of Vietnam-era protests mingled with college students. A guitarist sang, "First we take Seattle, then we take D.C."
The meeting had little of the visceral anger and fear of Vietnam War protests or the passion of anti-apartheid demonstrations in the 1980's. Although one goal of the movement against globalization is to turn the focus away from corporations to the poor nations of the world, there were only a handful of people from what the participants call the global South, or developing nations.
One was Njoki Njoroge Njehu, a Kenyan who serves as one of the movement's key "facilitators." (Participants say there are no generals, only lieutenants and ground troops.) She said the coalition has managed to bridge different purposes because it operates strictly by consensus. The process is mapped on a flow chart on the wall.
"We are emulating the kind of world we are seeking, with total transparency and without hierarchy," she said.
The Washington protests will begin with a march for debt relief organized by Jubilee 2000 Sunday and culminating in rally-cum-civil-disobedience events on April 16 and 17, when the I.M.F. and World Bank are scheduled to hold their spring meetings and world finance ministers are to descend on the city.
The police, wary of violence orchestrated by some 200 anarchists in Seattle, have prepared for months to ensure that the meetings are not disrupted. The main protest groups have pledged to demonstrate peacefully.
Many of the protesters view the World Bank and the I.M.F. as global loan sharks, hooking lower-income nations on cheap debt and then insisting that they adopt free markets, unlimited investment, privatization and restrained government spending, or risk a cutoff in new aid.
They are armed with research that they say shows some of the poorest countries that get World Bank and I.M.F. assistance, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, have become dependent on loans. They cite statistics that they say show that some African client countries have experienced declining per capita income over the last two decades, while other nations that shunned official aid performed better.
Even when the policies work, they often come at the expense of the environment, others argue. The bank and the fund sometimes require aid recipients to curtail fiscal spending and increase exports to earn hard currency. To meet those targets, governments often slash environmental protection budgets, they contend.
"You cannot conceive of policies more diametrically opposed to sound management of resources" than those preached by the bank and the fund, said Brent Blackwelder, president of Friends of the Earth.
Some protesters have treated Mr. Sachs and Joseph E. Stiglitz, the recently departed chief economist of the World Bank, as intellectual leaders. Mr. Stiglitz's scathing insider critiques have contributed to a raging debate in universities and in Congress about the effectiveness of the agencies.
Indeed, the protesters have implicit allies on the right. A commission appointed by the Republican-controlled Congress to recommend changes at the fund and bank last month called for an end to long-term loans of the type criticized by environmentalists. The commission also said the bank should act less like a bank and make more grants, rather than loans.
"Underneath it all is a feeling that globalization has not brought the benefits to the poor as promised," Mr. Stiglitz said. "The architecture of the world financial system is decided by finance ministers behind closed doors, but farmers and small businessmen are the ones who get hurt." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (96%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



240 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-14
 
C.I.A. Fires Officer In China Embassy Bombing
The Central Intelligence Agency dismissed an officer whose targeting error was blamed for the American bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade last year, according to an agency official. 1 

U.S. Resists Tariff Cuts
The Clinton Administration is opposing a World Bank proposal that would boost exports from the world's poorest nations, for fear that it would inflame sentiment in Congress against President Clinton's efforts to win passage of trade bills. 1
 
Many of those who disrupted the Seattle meeting of the World Trade Organization are reassembling in Washington to protest meetings of international economic organizations. 6
 
Presidential Election in Peru
President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru faces his most serious political crisis since he shut down the Congress and Supreme Court in 1992. 8
 
A Venezuelan Challenger
A former military officer has emerged as a strong challenger before May elections to President Hugo Chavez, just 14 months in office. 8
 
Tight Race in Greece
Costas Simitis, the Socialist prime minister of Greece, is in a close race for re-election today against his challenger, the leader of the center-right New Democracy Party. 9
 
Bosnians Go to the Polls
Bosnia held local elections, choosing officials for all but one of the nation's 146 municipalities. The outcome may determine whether the United States and the Europeans continue efforts to rebuild the nation. (AP)
 
NATIONAL 16-32
 
Rampage Killers Seethe, Then Unhinge
The 102 killers in 100 rampage attacks in the United States had many traits in common. Most were white, many had college degrees, but were unemployed. They seethed in anger and spoke of their plans. Perhaps most important, at least half showed signs of serious mental illness. 1
 
Republicans Change Plans
Congressional Republicans who once flocked to endorse Gov. George W. Bush of Texas now say he is a weaker candidate than they had hoped for. So their campaigns are setting off on their own. 26
 
Preparations for the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles appear to be back on track after months of trouble with fund-raising, unions and internal bickering. 24
 
School Policies Criticized
The Civil Rights Commission plans to issue a harsh critique of policies in Florida, Texas and California that have replaced affirmative action with guaranteed college admission for top high school graduates. 16
 
Seeking a Peaceful Reunion
The Clinton administration is increasing the pressure on the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez to reunite him with his father -- and hoping it happens without resistance. 18
 
Janitors Protest
Janitors on strike in Los Angeles have taken to the streets in protest, seeking a wage increase. 20
 
A Move to Protect Trees
Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman has recommended that 355,000 acres of national forest be given monument status to safeguard groves of giant sequoias. 20
 
NEW YORK/REGION 33-38
 
30 Years Later, Vivid Memories Of Battle to Legalize Abortion
Thirty years ago this week, New York State legalized abortion, adopting what was the most liberal law in the country, three years before the Supreme Court made abortion legal nationwide. For one side, it was an epochal breakthrough for women's rights. For the other, it felt like the end of civilization. 1
 
Bidding Buffalo Goodbye
Buffalo is a city that people say they love to live in and yet are leaving in droves. Once a bustling home to 1.1 million people, Erie County, which includes Buffalo and its suburbs, is now 926,000 and shrinking fast. Last year alone, more than 10,000 people moved away. The departees are young and middle-aged people seeking better jobs -- or any job at all. 33
 
A Lending Gap in the City
A new study of nearly 240,000 home loan applications in New York City concludes that conventional banks have largely ignored black neighborhoods, even those with above-average incomes, creating a vacuum that has been filled by high-cost and often abusive lenders. 35
 
OBITUARIES 39-40
 
Terence McKenna
A playful and persistent advocate of psychedelic drugs who gained fame by delivering his pitch to a new generation in the 1990's, he was 53. 40
 
Enrique Espinoza
An artist who created elaborate Christmas trees displayed each year at the White House, he was 87. 40
 
Chess 39
 
Weather 41
 
Cong.Vote 37 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (72%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); FUNDRAISING (69%); STRIKES (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (63%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



241 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 2014 words

HEADLINE: A Fine Place to Live, and Leave;
A Shrinking Population Shapes Buffalo's Psyche

SERIES: THE OTHER ECONOMY: Playing Catchup in Buffalo

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

DATELINE: BUFFALO

 BODY:
If this city wanted a ruefully honest bumper sticker, it would read, "Buffalo: Love It and Leave It."
The slogan sums up the conundrum that is Buffalo, a city that people say they love to live in and yet are leaving in droves. 
 Once a bustling home to 1.1 million people, Erie County, which includes Buffalo and its suburbs, now has 926,000 and is shrinking fast. Last year alone, more than 10,000 people moved away, leading to one of the steepest population drops of any county in the nation, according to new federal census estimates.
The departees are not retirees seeking the sun. They are young and middle-age people seeking better jobs -- or any job at all. And despite a burst of better economic news in Buffalo, the exodus continues.
"People have been leaving for 10, 20, 30 years," said Anthony M. Masiello, the city's mayor. "We're not going to see a significant reversal of that for some time."
Though it now has fewer residents than Staten Island, Buffalo remains New York's second largest city, which helps explain why the presidential candidates have been much in evidence. So have Hillary Rodham Clinton and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the contenders for the Senate. Reigniting the economy is the biggest campaign issue upstate.
But while politicians offer programs and policies, the reality of Buffalo is not simply economic. It is historic, geographic, demographic and psychological.
Far more than in other parts of upstate New York that have also lost residents, the shrinking of Buffalo seems to have seeped into the city's soul and become part of its identity, as much as eating spicy chicken wings and rooting for the Bills.
You can see it in politics: the new county executive won an upset victory with the campaign slogan "Keep Our Kids." You see it in home prices, which have scarcely budged in a decade. You see it on the streets, built for heavier traffic (one of the joys of Buffalo is being able to drive just about anywhere, including to the airport, in less than 20 minutes). You see it in the local sense of humor. One way to tell that you're from Buffalo, the joke goes, is that half of your friends moved to Charlotte, N.C., and the other half went to Raleigh.
And you can see it at Erie Community College's Williamsville campus northeast of Buffalo. There, for years, a criminal justice program has trained officers for local police departments and the New York State Police. Now, it sends graduates to Virginia, Georgia and Florida.
"To us, it's good and it's sad," said Timothy J. Dwan, a local judge who teaches at Erie. "Our kids are getting darn good jobs, but it's sad the South is plucking all the talent from the Northeast."
The Pied Piper of Erie County may well be Rick Veit, the employment manager for the government of Gwinnett County, Ga., just north of Atlanta. Gwinnett is one of the fastest-growing counties in the nation. This year, Mr. Veit needs to hire 30 to 50 police officers, no easy task when unemployment is 2.7 percent.
But Mr. Veit grew up in Erie County, and a couple of years ago, he got the bright idea of going home to recruit. He has hired 41 officers from western New York, 11 from Erie Community College alone, and visited the college again last month to screen more than 200 potential recruits.
Among them was Edward Smith, 29, who qualifies as a walking piece of Buffalo history: he works at a grain elevator, as his father and grandfather did. But the elevators, which were invented in Buffalo in the 1840's, are now mostly abandoned, and there is little to do at the few that remain. "We drink a lot of coffee," Mr. Smith said.
His friend Jeff DeLair personifies a current trend in Buffalo -- underemployment, in which people take jobs for which they are overqualified. Almost 127,000 workers in Buffalo have jobs but want better ones, according to a recent study. The jobless rate in Erie County is 6 percent, the highest of any major metropolitan area in the United States (the national average is 4.4 percent).
"It seems tough to get a job up here," said Mr. DeLair, 25, who has a bachelor's degree in criminal justice but works for a soda distributor. "The economy and the population; everybody's moving south."
People have been leaving New York City, too, but immigrants from overseas have more than made up for the loss. Buffalo once was a city of immigrants -- from Italy, Germany, Ireland, Poland -- but no more.
That means fewer workers. So despite today's relatively high unemployment rate, companies have to worry about finding enough workers in the future. "The shrinkage in the labor force can create further pressures in terms of labor shortages," said Richard Deitz, an economist for the Federal Reserve Bank in Buffalo.
That is definitely on the mind of Kevin J. Clarke, vice president and general manager of Quebecor Printing Buffalo, which embodies both the hope and the risk in Erie County today. Hope, because business is booming at the printing plant, which is so big that managers get around on bicycles. Presses the size of small buildings run day and night, churning out paperback best sellers, travel guides, even the drugstore coupon books that tumble out of newspapers.
Quebecor is one of several large manufacturers around Buffalo with expansion plans, which for Mr. Clarke means hiring at least 300 people in the next two or three years. That is where the risk comes in.
Where is he going to find them? "That is a significant concern, to be honest with you," Mr. Clarke said.
And it's not just the new workers, he added. "We've looked at our work force, who they are, how old they are, how many will leave and retire, and how to replace them. In eight years, there's a very, very frightening amount of skilled workers we're going to lose."
As he talked about his recruiting plans, Mr. Clarke raved about the pleasures of living in Buffalo: good schools, affordable housing, short drives to and from work. He can say these things, he explained, because he is from Long Island. "People who are local, all they see is what it used to be."
It used to be really something. At the turn of the 19th century, Buffalo was the site of the Pan-American Exposition (where President William McKinley was assassinated). Its steel mills once lined Lake Erie. Grain elevators clustered along the Buffalo River.
Frank Lloyd Wright designed the first air-conditioned office building here, as well as several homes; Louis Sullivan built an early skyscraper; and McKim, Mead & White contributed mansions along Delaware Avenue. City Hall is an Art Deco extravaganza.
Most of the beautiful buildings are still there, but the prosperity that paid for them is gone. Development of the St. Lawrence Seaway in the 1950's ended Buffalo's reign as a transportation hub. In the 1970's, the steel mills began to close. Today, much of the glorious waterfront is contaminated brownfield.
Buffalo still makes auto parts -- but more than its economy makes the city part of the Rust Belt. Geographically closer to Cleveland than to Queens, Buffalo looks like the Midwest, from the huge bowl of sky over the flat country to the gravy that comes on a lunchtime turkey sandwich.
And then there is the niceness. To a degree few downstaters understand, people really like living in Buffalo, which they say has the advantages of a big city but feels like a small town. Though parts of Erie County resemble Westchester, "you don't have to be a big shot to have a house like the Clintons'," said Daniel J. Ryan, director of career planning for the University of Buffalo. "And you know about the six degrees of separation? In Buffalo, it's two degrees."
Some people believe the population problem will solve itself. "Sure as day follows night, if jobs grow, the population will grow," said Stephen Kagann, the chief economist to Gov. George E. Pataki. Last year, private-sector jobs in Buffalo increased by 1.8 percent, he noted, less than the national average, but more than in the previous three years put together.
But Buffalo has clearly been slower than some of its Midwestern counterparts to cope with the decline of its basic industries and population.
The area's advantages -- including that huge pool of underemployed people -- "have never been marketed to the outside world," said Dennis J. Donovan of the Wadley-Donovan Group, which advises companies on where to expand.
Government is commonly seen as a culprit. Infighting among local politicians is legendary; Joel A. Giambra, a Republican who is the new county executive, has made waves simply because he is on speaking terms with Mr. Masiello, the mayor, who is a Democrat.
Mr. Giambra insists that the area's reputation as a snow magnet is not the source of its population problem. He blames high taxes. So do upstate residents in a new survey done by Harris Interactive for M & T Bank, based in Buffalo. The survey found that 20 percent of upstate residents planned to leave in the next five years, about twice the average for other regions. Escaping high taxes was cited even more often than the desire for better jobs elsewhere.
In 1998, Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine found that Buffalo residents were the most highly taxed of any citizens in the nation. New York's combined state and local tax burden is the second highest in the country, after Hawaii's. High taxes also contribute to the region's high electricity prices.
But taxes are not the whole story, said George Palumbo, a professor of economics at Canisius College in Buffalo. After all, he said, New York City and its thriving suburbs have high taxes, too.
Another serious problem, in his view, is that the area's jobs pay very low wages compared with similar jobs elsewhere. For example, workers in finance-related jobs in Buffalo make 35 percent less than the national average, Professor Palumbo said; those in New York City, of course, make far more. One possible explanation, he said, is that "a lot of back-office jobs have moved to western New York that don't pay a lot of money."
But some jobs in Buffalo pay at least $50,000 a year -- and at least 225 are vacant. They are listed on an Internet site -- buffaloworks.net.
The site, which has led to a couple of job placements since it was set up in January, is sponsored by the New Millennium Group, a volunteer organization that seems devoted to making Buffalo residents buck up.
"What is it with the psychic malaise?" asked Douglas W. Dimitroff, a lawyer who is one of the group's founders. Mr. Dimitroff, who worked in New York City before his first child was born, said that maybe it took leaving the city to appreciate it. "Folks who think the grass is greener somewhere else probably should go there," he said.
Thomas A. Kucharski did -- and ended up in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley, the steel-making region that once seemed as downhearted as Buffalo does today. As president of the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation, Mr. Kucharski was involved in the area's successful efforts to lure businesses from other areas.
Now he hopes to work the same magic in his hometown. Mr. Kucharski was recently named president of the Buffalo Niagara Enterprise, which has a multimillion-dollar budget contributed by local governments and businesses. He has moved in "a couple of blocks from Mom," he said (and worries about gaining weight from eating her home-cooked dinners).
Despite the obvious challenges of selling Buffalo to people who have seen it only snowed under on the TV news, Mr. Kucharski says he is optimistic. As a local saying goes, he said: "The second hardest thing is to move to Buffalo. The first hardest thing is to leave."
 
The Other Economy
 
Upstate New York, a vast, diverse landscape of old cities, small towns, farms and forests stretching from Buffalo to Albany and north to the Canadian border, was once one of the most populous and prosperous regions of the country. But the national economic boom that swept into New York City and its suburbs passed it by. This is the first of several articles on the region's quest for prosperity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Buffalo, where an empty storefront window, right, reflected uncrowded streets last week (Trevor Kapralos for The New York Times), the joke is that half your friends have moved to Charlotte, N.C., and the other half have gone to Raleigh. (Trevor Kapralos for The New York Times); On the waterfront, glory has largely given way to contamination and idleness. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart/Map: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Leaving in Droves"
Chart shows populations of Buffalo and Erie County
 
Graph shows data through 1998.(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (97%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (97%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POPULATION DECLINE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); POLITICS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COUNTIES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); CENSUS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MAYORS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); HOME PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



242 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 26; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 3717 words

HEADLINE: The Liberating Arts

BYLINE: By Roger Cohen; Roger Cohen, the Berlin bureau chief for The Times, has been a Paris correspondent and covered the Balkans.

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia

 BODY:
Yuri Solonin, the dean of the philosophy department at St. Petersburg State University, is a man of apparent self-assurance. He is tall, trenchant, tough-minded. But his wife is worried about him. Of late, he has appeared agitated. "She realizes I am not quite normal at the moment," Mr. Solonin said. "And she wonders if I should not drop this project that is making me so nervous."
The project in question is Smolny College, the first institution to offer an American liberal arts degree program in Russia. Jointly run by Bard College and St. Petersburg University, Smolny opened to a first batch of students last September. Among those invited to teach was Mr. Solonin, who found himself torn between old anti-American prejudices and an awareness that no ivory tower, even that of the philosopher, could remain impervious to the end of the Soviet Union and the arrival of capitalism la Russe. 
 "It is very difficult for me to teach at Smolny," he explained, running long fingers through an artfully trimmed beard. "You see, the Russian style of teaching is the monologue. I know I have to fight against this style, because the liberal arts approach involves students being very active. So I must provoke student participation. But it is hard for me to maintain my self-control, and I worry I will bend students to my authority."
The existential crisis of Mr. Solonin, a man tugged between disciplinarian instincts and democratic curiosity, is one measure of the enormity of the Smolny experiment. With Russian society in flux, the army at war in Chechnya and higher education in a state of some dilapidation, the new college represents a bold gamble that American educational values of openness and creative exchange can take root in a country still vulnerable to an authoritarian backlash.
In the liberal arts system, students pursue a wide course of study -- from history to politics to architecture. Breadth and depth are equally prized. Nothing could be more different from the Russian tradition of intense specialization in a single subject, learning-by-rote and oral examinations.
But the conviction at Bard College is that liberal arts became popular in the United States because the country was building a democracy; accordingly, it may now serve the same purpose in Russia by opening young people's minds to critical debate and the habits of participation.
That may sound like an entirely laudable and uncontroversial objective in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., where Bard is home to 1,200 undergraduates. But in St. Petersburg, history is no quietly flowing Yankee river; it is a succession of plots and counterplots. The very name of the city has changed several times as it adapted to different political realities. So Nikolai Koposov, the dean of Smolny College, has not had an easy time. Indeed, repeated attacks on the new institution have forced him to use all his diplomatic skills.
Among the sinister roles imputed to Smolny in public discussions at St. Petersburg University over the last several months have been those of a vehicle for a "Jewish conspiracy," facade for the Central Intelligence Agency and saboteur of the sons of Russia fighting the Chechens. Mr. Koposov has been obliged to explain to some of his colleagues why Smolny teaches dance when Russia needs bullets.
"To the charges, I replied that conspiracy theories have not proved very efficient in history," Mr. Koposov said. A historian who chose to specialize in 17th-century France to avoid subjection to paeans of Marxism-Leninism, he is a man who understands Russia's mixture of subtlety and brutality. His nuanced mind -- and sense of humor -- will clearly be helpful in nurturing the compromises that alone will sustain this delicate Russian-American hybrid.
"It is natural," Mr. Koposov continued, "that after the decades of Soviet propaganda, there are people who want to destroy Smolny and, if they don't succeed, they want at least to be paid. You see, defiant Russian nationalism may merely be a way of negotiating the price of compromise. American culture is relatively little known in Russia, but American money is rather familiar."
It is not only in Russia, of course, that the United States has had to confront an image problem as two conflicting trends in education confront each other. The first is a push by American colleges to establish campuses overseas as the global economy reinforces the perception that students require international experience. The number of American students studying abroad in 1997-98, the last year for which statistics are available, increased almost 15 percent from the previous year.
"We have a responsibility to produce global citizens," said Dr. J. Michael Adams, the president of Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey, which opened a campus in Tel Aviv in 1996. "We see ourselves preparing citizens of the world."
From Athens to Panama, American universities have been setting up branches overseas, supported by the strong dollar and economy. Rice University, for one, is helping establish a university to open in 2001 in the north German port town of Bremen. Courses will be taught in English and credits and degrees will follow American standards.
The second trend, however, is the emergence of a view that all this talk in the United States of "global citizens" disguises the true motive. Behind it, the theory goes, lurks a naked American ambition: to shape the young minds of the world and so extend the overwhelming cultural pre-eminence of the United States. It is not surprising -- given the extent of America's economic, military, political and cultural domination since the end of the cold war -- that a reaction against what the French call the hegemony of the United States has begun. Education, quite naturally, has not been spared in this backlash.
"Uniform education will lead to a uniform world -- one teaching, one thinking," Claude Allegre, the former French education minister, complained recently in Le Monde. "That our students go and study in the United States and Britain is entirely desirable, but that the Americans install their universities throughout the world, all on the same model and with the same courses, is a catastrophe. We are preparing a counterattack, including distance-education programs across national borders."
Any French or European counterattack, however, will confront the hold on the world's imagination of American ideas and the English language. (American college fees are rather less inspiring.) Even Mr. Allegre went on to say that the change needed in French education was from a model of the omniscient teacher instructing passive students to one of "interaction" -- precisely the method embodied in the liberal arts tradition. Little doubt exists that ventures like Smolny elicit strong demand partly because they are seen as passports to the Internet-driven culture of the new economy.
An enrollment of 300 students at Smolny -- four times the current figure of 78 -- is expected by 2003.
But can these American institutions manage the difficult balancing act involved in introducing new ideas into sometimes stultifying foreign educational environments and do so without betraying an arrogance that provokes nationalist reactions? Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College, is convinced that the key to success lies in the adaptation of an American model rather than its imposition.
"We are not interested in putting Bard College in Russia," he said. "What does interest us is a critical exchange of ideas, with real respect for dissent, and the notion that the liberal arts model has some international validity adapted to each cultural context. Of course, there is skepticism in Russia about our rhetorical pieties. But I firmly believe that a liberal arts education, civil society and participatory democracy are linked."
Certainly, St. Petersburg, with its Italianate palaces of warm ocher colors set down at the cold northwestern edge of Russia, tells a story of the fertile, if not always tranquil, mingling of cultures. The city itself was created as one fantastic exercise in westernizing Russia. It was dreamed up by Peter the Great, who also founded the university in 1724. In so doing, he sought to introduce German educational ideas to a Russian setting, an illustration that the marriage of national and foreign instruction is nothing new.
The original Smolny College, set on a broad bend in the Neva River, was itself a Russian-Italian project, designed as a convent for the Empress Elizabeth, a daughter of Peter the Great, by Bartolomeo Rastrelli, the Italian architect of the Hermitage. The long delays in its construction are evident in the mingling of Rococo and neo-Classical styles, but the result is felicitous enough.
Next door stands the Smolny Institute, notorious because the Military Revolutionary Committee of the Bolsheviks established its base for the October 1917 coup here. Today a statue of Lenin, newspaper in back pocket, clutching his cap, pointing the way forward to a glorious proletarian future, stands before the building. His back is turned to the Czarist Romanov emblem, a double-headed eagle, that has been restored to the facade.
Russian history -- tugged between East and West, tradition and revolution, repression and reform -- is writ large in St. Petersburg, an invitation to any student to reflect on the variegated culture of what remains a Euro-Asian empire.
The latest incarnation of Smolny, whose classes take place principally at St. Petersburg University, a few miles from the original blue-and-white convent building, amounts to a call to the new Russia to opt for the liberal culture of the West rather than lurch into some new authoritarian foray.
"Smolny should be a reminder of what the liberal arts are about," said Susan Gillespie, the director of Bard's Institute for International Liberal Education. "The capacity to be intellectually courageous, creative and challenging in a nonhierarchical classroom that prepares you for an open society."
Sounds good. But of course Smolny is very much a work in progress. Wires hang ominously from walls, computers are conspicuous by their absence, and the penchant of Russian teachers for the "monologue" dies hard in classrooms even if they have been coached in the ways of the liberal arts. New courses in everything from literary criticism to American studies demand an agility for which the Soviet Union was no preparation.
"To convince a medievalist that he or she should have some ideas about the French Revolution was impossible in the old system," Mr. Koposov, the dean, said. His wife, Dina, also a historian, added, "There were two schools of philosophy in the Soviet system: the official Marxist one and the unofficial one in the Gulag."
Still, great strides have been made. Much positive sentiment about Smolny exists within St. Petersburg University alongside the misgivings and opposition. Smolny has been accepted as an integral part of the university, one of the two or three most prestigious centers of higher learning in Russia. The faculty is made up largely of Russian teachers giving courses almost exclusively in Russian (as is required by law). The college offers graduates B.A. degrees from Bard as well as degrees from Smolny. In addition, Smolny is lobbying hard at the Russian Ministry of Education, and within the university, to gain approval to give out St. Petersburg State University B.A. degrees in the liberal arts and sciences. This would broaden its attraction to Russian students.
"I don't see any reason why this approval should not come," said Yuri Fedotov, the university's vice rector for international affairs. "The wider your range of activities, the more sustainable you are in a market economy. Since Communism fell, we have more freedom and less money from the government, so we have to experiment."
Among the experiments at St. Petersburg University have been the introduction of four-year bachelor's degrees alongside the old five-year specialist degrees; the foundation of a School of Management; the offering of university places to so-called commercial students, who are obliged to pay fees at a university where all education has been free; and, most conspicuously, Smolny itself, where students pay $2,000 a year. This fee is too high for most Russians, but Mr. Koposov said that about 80 percent of the students received scholarships covering all or part of the expense.
Supported by the philanthropist George Soros's Open Society Institute in Budapest, by a $300,000 grant from the United States Information Agency and by private donors, the college offers an interesting fund-raising model in cash-short Russia; it also makes professors more marketable by forcing them to adapt.
Erin Weeks-Earp, the one Bard student in the first group attending Smolny, has had to adapt a great deal herself since arriving from the United States last year. She is in the vanguard of what Smolny hopes will eventually be a large number of students from American and European colleges. Age 20, she considers herself a patient and tolerant person. But her patience and tolerance have been stretched.
"There's a completely different attitude to everything you do -- life, work, study," she said. "Last semester, I tried to write a paper. I went to the library to sign up. I needed a passport, two photos, and then I had to fill out a questionnaire on what I wanted to research. Finally, I received a library card. But nothing is computerized. All you have are card-index catalogs in boxes where everything seems mixed up. In the end I found the reference for the book I wanted and handed in a slip with its name. I was told to come back the following Tuesday. And when I got the book, I could not take it home."
Ms. Weeks-Earp, who came to Smolny to perfect her Russian, has thought a lot about what distinguishes the American liberal arts approach. "The aspect that students here have difficulty putting their finger on is creativity," she said. "At Bard, it is not a transfer of information that takes place in class, but shar- ing, and you may well find a student ripping apart a professor's ideas. That is not an easy concept to grasp for Russian students."
But they are trying. In one classroom, a group of young Russians is gathered for an anthropology course, "Gender as a Concept and a Field of Study." According to a prospectus prepared by the professor, the class is devoted to an examination of "gendered human differences from prehistory to the present" and "cross-cultural examples of gender in the division of labor, access to productive and reproductive resources, and the exercise of political power."
The students seem motivated, drawn to the novelty of this experiment. "In the old way," said Nikolai Nikifarov, a student, "you learn to lose your time listening to things that sound very lofty, but don't mean anything. You listen but don't understand. But in the liberal arts, you learn because you feel you need it, not because somebody else thinks you need it. This dynamic feeling gets you turned on."
Anastassia Zoueva, another student, said she had learned at Smolny that "you work better without pressure." In the regular courses at the state university, she said, pressure was constant, the lists of reading endless and the fear of offending a professor great.
But Smolny also presents some problems. Several students acknowledged that their parents had difficulty understanding courses that did not lead to a specific career; concern clearly exists that jobs will prove scarce for graduates. This fear is reflected in the fact that men have tended to shun Smolny -- about 80 percent of the first students are women -- partly because they are not yet convinced that it can open the way to a good career. "For government agencies and state businesses, the old five-year specialist degree is still favored," Mr. Fedotov said.
But the system that produced these specialists is clearly cracking. In its way, it was an extraordinary achievement; the Soviet Union focused enormous resources on education, and standards were extremely high. This fact holds out the possibility of a true marriage of the old and the new. Unlike in Latin America, where the elites are sometimes known as the "Miami boys" because they go to the United States to be educated, Russia may prove able to provide its own elite education.
But it will have to adapt fast. Konstantin Barsht is a typical professor, teaching literature at another St. Petersburg university, the State Pedagogical University. He earns $65 a month.
"Nobody pays taxes so the government does not have enough to pay teachers," he said simply, adding with a smile: "But Russians are very strange, many still want to work for ideas rather than salaries. It is the main difference between Russia and the United States."
Mr. Barsht has had to take a second job teaching English privately, and he recognizes that he is in what he calls "survival mode." Many of his fellow teachers have gone abroad or moved into private industry. At the same time, these Russian industries are becoming more demanding, and they all want three things: a higher education, knowledge of computers and good command of English.
Enter Smolny College, offering English, access to foreign capital and a real marriage of Western and Russian ideas. It is clearly a model with potential. But the last decade has been crushing in many ways, full of disillusionment and difficulties. As Mr. Barsht observed: "The pressure of poverty creates a moral state where optimism disappears. And somebody doing something new must be a little optimistic."
Mr. Solonin, the philosophy dean, is one of the many Russians left with deep doubts about change by his country's painful transformation. "We have to reconsider the relationship of freedom and creativity," he said. "We thought that creativity was a function of freedom. But in the time of the Gulag, people were totally unfree, and they created great works of science, of literature, of thought. In the Soviet Union, it was impossible to talk, but we had something to talk about. Now you can say whatever you like, but people have nothing to say."
These words are shocking to Western ears, and they express all this professor's skepticism about Smolny and the liberal arts. To his mind, the American approach removes what he calls "the tension and discipline necessary for ideas." He suggested that the C.I.A. had yet to prove that it was not behind Smolny. And yet, he is ready to try to understand, even to adapt.
In such painful adaptations, in such intellectual struggles, Smolny may find its way. "Smolny College is still wavering," Ms. Weeks-Earp said. "But it will find its own middle ground because people are motivated. Not the American liberal education. Not classical St. Petersburg. Something else."
 
The Global Leap
Many American colleges and universities have set up branches throughout the world, citing an expanding global economy with America at the center and the popularity of English as the language of business. Foreign students are attracted to the prestige of an American degree, and Americans are lured by the international experience.
CHAMPLAIN COLLEGE (Burlington, Vt.): "In the early 90's we decided to focus on international," said David Huwiler, vice president for academic affairs at Champlain. "For years we told our students that the world was moving toward a global economy and we decided we should back that up." Champlain offers undergraduate degrees in business and technology on campuses in the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia and has plans for ones in India, Singapore and Hong Kong. Champlain's Tel Aviv campus has 2,500 students, more than in Burlington. (www.champlain.edu)
FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (Teaneck and Madison, N.J.): About 250 students from Israel, Russia, Ukraine and Iraq are enrolled in its Tel Aviv campus, which opened in 1996. The four-year program offers a liberal arts education with degrees in psychology, communications, business management and restaurant and hotel management. (www.fdu.edu)
RICE UNIVERSITY (Houston): Rice is lending administrators and other help to the International University Bremen in Bremen, Germany, scheduled to open in 2001. I.U.B., a private research university, is to be modeled after Rice, with a residential college system and small student-faculty ratio. (www.iu-bremen.de/)
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY (St. Louis): A campus in Madrid was founded in 1968 by this Jesuit university. More than 600 students are enrolled at the campus, which has 80 courses of study. (www.slu.edu. and http://spain.slu.edu)
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (Philadelphia): The university's Tokyo campus calls itself the oldest and largest American university in Japan, offering eight undergraduate majors. Adelaide Ferguson, assistant vice president for international studies at Temple, says the program offers an American-style education stressing critical thinking and creativity. Temple also has campuses in Rome and London. (www.temple.edu)
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (College Park): Its campus in Schw<diamond=bisch Gmnd, Germany, with students from 48 countries, offers bachelor's degrees in 12 subjects, from business to psychology. (www.umuc.edu)
WEBSTER UNIVERSITY (St. Louis): Webster's Geneva campus, which was established in 1968, now has more than 500 students from 104 countries. Webster also has campuses in Britain, the Netherlands, Austria, China, Thailand and Bermuda. It says it is the first American university to get approval in China to issue a master's of business administration. (www.webster.edu)
THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES: They share a name and mission but are separate entities. The American universities of Paris and of Rome were founded in the 1960's and grant liberal arts degrees. The American University of Beirut was founded in 1862 as Syrian Protestant College by American missionaries. Today, it is a secular university that includes a medical school and has awarded more than 60,000 degrees. The American University of Cairo, which offers liberal arts degrees, was founded in 1919 and is now planning a new campus south of Cairo. (Paris: www.aup.edu; Rome: www.aur.edu; Beirut: www.aub.edu; Cairo: www.aucegypt.edu)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Page 26 of Education Life today about an innovative college in St. Petersburg, Russia, includes an outdated reference to Claude Allegre of France, who derided "uniform education." After the section had gone to press, he was removed as education minister in a cabinet reshuffle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students outside the convent that was the original site of Smolny College. Smolny, now run by Bard College and St. Petersburg University, is offering Russia's first American liberal arts program.' (James Hill for The New York Times); Smolny students take classes mainly on the St. Petersburg University campus, where positive sentiment exists alongside the misgivings and opposition.; Yuri Solonin, a philosophy professor, says he is torn between Russia's authoritative classroom style and Western openness.; "This dynamic feeling gets you turned on," said one Smolny student about new concepts like class participation. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: BARD COLLEGE; ST PETERSBURG STATE UNIVERSITY (RUSSIA); SMOLNY COLLEGE (RUSSIA) BARD COLLEGE (59%); SMOLNY COLLEGE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARD COLLEGE; ST PETERSBURG STATE UNIVERSITY (RUSSIA); SMOLNY COLLEGE (RUSSIA) SMOLNY COLLEGE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; SOLONIN, YURI YURI SOLONIN (70%); NIKOLAI KOPOSOV (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



243 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 15; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE PREP;
The Big Choose

BYLINE: By Glenn C. Altschuler; Glenn C. Altschuler is both the dean of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions and the Thomas and Dorothy Litwin Professor of American Studies at Cornell University.

 BODY:
When Sasha Kramer from Sherburne, N.Y., visited Reed College in Portland, Ore., her favorite flowers -- forget-me-nots -- were blooming everywhere, small classes were meeting on the lawn and a fountain filled with fresh water for dogs marked a place where her "best friend" would feel welcome. The juxtaposition of a full library on Friday night and a sizable number of students with purple hair made Reed feel right. She chose it over Brown, which her parents had recommended for its excellent curriculum in the sciences and outstanding record for sending undergraduates on for Ph.D's.
As they decide on the colleges and universities to which they have been accepted, many high school seniors like Sasha let their gut reaction cast the final ballot. Do undergraduates talk more about designer clothing or digital music? Are interracial couples visible? Do students eat in pajamas? Wear religious symbols? 
 In higher education as in real estate, one factor, sometimes significant and sometimes silly, invariably acts as the decider, even with applicants who pore over guides and Web pages and develop a weighted system for teacher-student ratios, departmental rankings and average class size. No one is more aware of the critical importance of the perception of personal fit than college and university administrators. That's why "hosting weekends" that resemble Neapolitan street festivals, with prospective students visiting classes, listening to choir rehearsals, talking to lacrosse coaches, slamming doors and kicking tires, have become rites of spring on every campus.
After a post-acceptance trip to the University of Richmond on a humid day, Dominick Pangallo of Marblehead, Mass., realized he was not a warm-weather person. He made his final choice of Bates College in Lewiston, Me., after a luncheon with 50 other prospective freshmen and the president of Bates. "It made Bates much more human to be able to say I met the president," said Dominick, who also liked the theater program and the prospect of living closer to home.
That students follow feelings in choosing a college is not surprising. After all, don't adults often have two reasons for doing things, a good (that is, logical) reason and the real reason? Prospective freshmen, however, have a rare opportunity: to discover something about themselves by understanding their feelings. Those who plunge in and step back, who are conscious of what is influencing them, will be less likely to find out in their junior year that they were following current fashion, foolish passion or someone else's agenda when they chose the institution.
 
Dos and Don'ts
The process begins with becoming aware of the power of peers in college selection. Did you approve when Brandon Walsh and Andrea Zuckerman on "Beverly Hills 90210" turned down offers of admission to prestigious institutions in the East to matriculate with their friends at the local university? Is Brown cool, Duke hot and Cornell hard because everyone says they are? Peer influence cannot be eliminated but it can be reduced. Do not visit a campus with a friend, and make a decision before friends make theirs.
Listen to parents but do not allow them, as advisers, advocates or adversaries, to be the prism for your perceptions. Another television teenager, Meadow Soprano, was lucky: her dad dropped her off at Bates, Bowdoin and Colby because he had to track down and murder a stool pigeon. If your parents are not similarly occupied, separate during campus visits and compare notes. Be honest about what you are looking for, what you think you found and invite your parents to challenge assumptions. A college should not be chosen to placate or punish them.
Financial considerations are important, of course, but do not sell yourself to the highest bidder. Do not conclude without asking that parents will not, cannot or should not spend more on your first choice. Above all, weigh large loans and sticker shock against the dividends of learning with first-rate faculty and socializing with smart, stimulating students who become spouses, friends and, along with alumni, a professional network.
A study last year by Caroline M. Hoxby, an economist at Harvard, ranked colleges by selectivity -- 1 being the most selective, 8 the least. Ms. Hoxby found that, given identical aptitudes, a male student who entered a rank 1 private college in 1982 could expect to earn $1.15 million more over his career (in 1997 dollars) than one at a rank 8. A rank 1 graduate would earn $400,000 more than a rank 3 graduate.
 
Beyond the Numbers
In comparing academic characteristics, average class size is not a meaningful statistic, because large numbers of tiny graduate and senior seminars keep the average down. An institution with an average class size of 12 can still pack hundreds of students into introductory classes. Freshmen are traditionally taught in such large lecture courses, an efficient way to impart information.
More telling is the size and range of classes for sophomores and juniors, and the ratio of professors (rather than teaching staff, which includes instructors, lecturers and adjuncts) to undergraduates. Moreover, a high percentage of graduate students to undergraduates -- say, anything more than 1 to 4 -- might indicate that faculty attention and resources are diverted to masters and doctoral students. Also compare the number of teaching assistants leading discussion sections.
Overall, however, the best evidence of academic excellence is the number of undergraduates from the top 10 percent of their high school classes, a statistic known to admissions offices.
 
Who Are You? Find Out
Trust no one over 30, because the information is likely to be stale. Instead, ask as many undergraduates as can be collared about the accessibility of faculty; the opportunities to do independent research, design a major and write an honors thesis; quality of the library and laboratories, and availability of internships.
Then explore motivations. It's almost always better to act on aspiration rather than from anxiety, and being explicit about fears is valuable for, and beyond, the choice of a college. Do you want anonymity or personal attention, a homogeneous or diverse student body? Why? Are you choosing a small college or a large university out of a fear of the unknown, a desire for a different experience, a craving for the comfortable?
"Size of campus is peripheral," said Marybeth Kravets, a college consultant at Deerfield High School in suburban Chicago and president-elect of the National Association for College Admission Counseling. "One of the things I always ask kids is how many really good friends they have in school. They come up with 10 to 15. The same thing goes on on a campus. They can find a comfort level. Then kids will say to me, 'I need to be in a city' and I ask, 'How many times have you been into the city,' and they'll say two to three times a year.' For many, they've probably never been alone in a New York City, Chicago or L.A. But even if in Amish country, there are going to be plenty of ways to get involved."
In fact, the differences one hears about or observes in social life can be insignificant. Virtually all campuses schedule movies, concerts, athletic events and celebrity lectures; activities fees allow most undergraduates to form ski clubs or hold Renaissance fairs, dances and juggling marathons. For some students, proximity to Brazilian fusion music at 3 a.m., Wrigley Field or gorgeous gorges is essential. But for most, even when some activities are not available, "enough is as good as a feast," as Emerson said, as long as there are a lot of other young people around.
With college selection, as with all courtships, there is more than one Mr. Right. But once students tap their feelings, weigh the options and listen to advisers, they can make a decision and not look back. The honeymoon may last at least four years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Page 15 of Education Life today, with an article about choosing a college, reverses the identities of Kelly and Brenda of "Beverly Hills 90210." Kelly is No. 3 in the photograph, Brenda No. 5.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Meadow Soprano and her father visited schools together, but he was a bit distracted. (Anthony Neste/HBO); (Fox Broadcasting)
 
Chart: "Beverly Hills 90210": Where They Went and Why
 
1. Andrea: Chose local university, C.U., to be with friends (and grandma was ill).
2. Brandon: Also chose C.U. to be with friends. Rejected Rhodes Scholarship.
3. Brenda: Went out of state because Dylan was dating her best friend.
4. Dylan: C.U. dropout (drug and drinking problem).
5. Kelly: Dating Dylan, stayed home and went to C.U.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (50%); BATES COLLEGE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: BATES COLLEGE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); OREGON, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (76%); MUSIC (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); RELIGION (53%); LACROSSE (50%); 

PERSON: ALTSCHULER, GLENN C (PROF) SASHA KRAMER (58%); CAROLINE M HOXBY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



244 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 1;Column 2;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: '70 Abortion Law: New York Said Yes, Stunning the Nation

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 8

 BODY:
To one side, it was an epochal breakthrough for women's rights. To the other, it felt like the end of civilization. A defining political and cultural event, it stunned nearly everyone, and its tiniest details remain etched in the players' memories.
Thirty years ago this week, New York State legalized abortion, adopting the country's most liberal law, three years before the Supreme Court legalized abortion nationwide. 
 The state's decision turned on hard-to-predict legislative votes and tactical errors by abortion opponents. The drama, which several participants recalled in interviews this week, was decided by the last-minute change of a single vote.
New York had a Republican governor then, Nelson A. Rockefeller, and Republicans controlled both houses of the Legislature. Of the 207 legislators, just 4 were women.
Surviving supporters of that 1970 bill will celebrate the anniversary on Tuesday at the Yale Club in Manhattan, at a reception sponsored by the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, known as Naral. Their adversaries plan no gathering, but are acutely aware of the date.
By 1970, a few states had carved limited exceptions out of what was essentially a nationwide ban on abortion. Hawaii had approved the nation's first broad legalization, but it applied only to Hawaii residents. New York was second, its law went further, and it had no residency requirement. In the first two years, 60 percent of women having abortions in New York were from out of state.
In the early 1960's, Assemblyman Percy E. Sutton of Manhattan introduced New York's first bill to loosen the prohibition. In 1967, 1968 and 1969, the Assembly defeated bills to permit abortion under very limited circumstances. But before 1970, the Senate majority leader, Earl W. Brydges of Niagara Falls, a staunch abortion opponent, would not allow a vote in his house.
In separate interviews, some of the surviving participants shared their memories of the legalization debate:
 
John J. Marchi
Republican senator from Staten Island
"Abortion had barely entered into the public dialogue. I remember attending the New York State Constitutional Convention of 1967, and there wasn't a single bill on the subject, nor was there any advocacy."
 
Manfred Ohrenstein
Former Democratic senator from Manhattan
"We were living in a time of enormous change. There was the war. There was the women's movement, which was really bringing the abortion issue to a crescendo. It was the end of the civil rights era, and we viewed this as a civil right. In '65, we had repealed the death penalty, which people thought was impossible. There was a sense that extraordinary things were possible."
 
Lawrence Lader
Then chairman of what was called the National Association for Repeal of Abortion Laws
"We had just formed Naral, in February 1969 at a meeting in Chicago. We decided at that first meeting to concentrate on New York State as our breakthrough state. We felt that New York represented our best opportunity, and we knew that other states often looked to New York as setting an example. So we set up tables and gathered petitions in key districts in New York."
 
Barbara Shack
Then an organizer with the New York Civil Liberties Union, now president of the board of Naral
"The campaign to change the law was largely run by men, which really tells you about that time. And people forget that back then, a big part of the argument was about economics. Women with money could get abortions. They could pay doctors to do them, or they could go to Puerto Rico or to another country. Poor women, on the other hand, were dying in droves from unsafe abortions."
 
Michael R. Long
Chairman of the New York State Conservative Party
"Abortion was a nonissue up until then. The party wasn't even united on it then, because nobody had given it much thought. We first put a pro-life plank in the party platform in 1968, and we had a big internal fight about it. Nobody -- and I mean nobody -- expected this to become a reality."
 
Constance Cook
Former Republican assemblywoman from Ithaca
"I followed Al Blumenthal's bills with great interest, but a Democrat really couldn't get a bill passed in those days, with the Republicans in control. So in '69, Franz Leichter and I sponsored a bill for a full-fledged repeal, and we did it again in 1970."
 
D. Clinton Dominick III
Former Republican senator from Newburgh
"Al Blumenthal and Fred Ohrenstein came up with the strategy of doing it first in the Senate. The Senate was perceived to be the more conservative house, and they thought if the Senate passed it, that would improve the chances in the Assembly. So Fred Ohrenstein came to me and said, 'Would you be a sponsor?' I told Fred, 'Only if you get a bunch of other Republicans to be co-sponsors.' A couple of days later, he came back to me and said the only other Republican who would be a sponsor was Roy Goodman. But I said O.K., anyway. And then Fred said they decided that it would be best to have a Republican as the prime sponsor. So without my doing much of anything, I became the prime sponsor."
 
Warren M. Anderson
Former Republican senator from Binghamton, later the majority leader
"There wasn't all that much lobbying on it, and especially not against it. The big groups that have formed around this issue over the last 30 years barely even existed then."
 
LONG
 "We didn't really gear up over it because we didn't think it would pass. It came rather fast, and it even took the church by surprise, because their main concern was the aid for schools. I remember a lot of us being kind of angry at the Cardinal Terence Cooke and the bishops for not doing more, that if they had all gone to Albany, it would have changed the outcome."
 
LADER
 "The Catholic Church was caught off guard. They didn't think we had a chance, so they were really not that loud on the subject until the end. The church was really focused on a bill for state aid to parochial schools. The other strategic error was by Earl Brydges, in letting it come to a vote. There were bills to create limited allowances for abortion, but Brydges made sure that what came to a vote was a bill for out-and-out pure repeal, full legalization, no restrictions. A lot of his colleagues said it was a ploy on his part, because he thought the more liberal the bill, the more likely it would be defeated, and that would put an end to it. He just miscalculated."
 
ANDERSON
 "To this day, I don't know why Earl allowed a vote. Generally, he was pretty forthright about what he was up to, but this was one he kept to himself. I was as close to him as anyone in the Legislature, and I don't know what he was thinking."
 
Roy M. Goodman
Republican senator from Manhattan
"It was the most fascinating debate we've ever had in the Senate, because the outcome was really unclear, and furthermore it struck me as likely that some minds might change. It was a very tense thing. I remember I studied for literally days, looking into the embryology of the fetus, preparing for the debate. I was looking at diagrams and books on biology and anatomy."
 
MARCHI
 "It was a cliffhanger, and a number of people unexpectedly voted in favor of it. I wasn't persuaded that we had lost until we had the roll-call vote. I was in disbelief."
On March 18, 1970, the Senate was packed. The debate took more than five hours.
"From those of us opposing this bill I hear a buoyancy and a luminous debate," Mr. Marchi said in the floor debate. "But from those on the other side I hear plaintiveness and anguish. And it must be this way, for we are for life and they are against it."
Mr. Goodman said: "The present abortion law encourages butchery. We torture the fetus and we allow them to be born in stunted and twisted form. This law presses down unmercifully on the poor. Is this equality under God?"
Several senators had refused to say in advance how they would vote, and even as the roll call began, the result was unclear. Mr. Brydges spoke last, his voice gravelly and slow. "I have a deep, real, abiding conviction that this is the wrong way for the state to go," he said, "because we are a bellwether state, and many other states will follow our lead."
The tally was 31 for, 26 against. Thirteen Republicans and 18 Democrats voted for the bill; 20 Republicans and 6 Democrats voted against.
 
OHRENSTEIN
 "Here was the majority leader of the Senate, a very powerful man, a respected man, Earl Brydges, a very orthodox Catholic, and he got up and made a speech, practically in tears, and he was heartsick. He could have stopped it, but he said that he wasn't going to stand in the way of the majority."
 
GOODMAN
 "It hurt him tremendously that the vote worked out the way it did. When it was over he slumped into his chair and just dissolved in tears."
 
LADER
 "The Senate vote set the Catholic Church off, and then they really started to put pressure on the Assembly members. They had children at parochial schools write letters to Assembly members. Cardinal Cooke had a pastoral letter read in every church. When it came to a vote, there were nuns and priests walking the floor of the Assembly."
 
COOK
 "After the Senate vote, we amended the bill in the Assembly because it had no restrictions at all, and we didn't think that had a very good chance of passing. So we made it unrestricted abortion up to 24 weeks, and after that only for the life of the mother."
 
Franz S. Leichter
Former senator who was then a Democratic Assemblyman from Manhattan
"We had the first vote on March 30 and it was 73 for to 70 against. But we needed 76 votes, an absolute majority of the house, for it to pass. That certainly cast a pall and made us very apprehensive, but we agreed to table it and try to bring it up a second time on April 9 . . . . People were really torn, as a matter of conscience and as a matter of politics. People who had voted yes the first time voted no, and people who had voted no the first time voted yes. I spent 30 years in the Legislature, and it was one of maybe 20 times that I saw a bill come to floor where you really just didn't know what was going to happen."
Midway through an agonizing roll call, Assemblyman George M. Michaels, a Democrat from a heavily Catholic, central New York district, quietly voted no.
The count ended at 74 to 74. One Assembly member was absent. Speaker Perry B. Duryea Jr., a Montauk Republican, did not vote, in keeping with the tradition that the speaker votes only if it affects the outcome.
Before the clerk could bring the vote to a close, Mr. Michaels stood and asked to be recognized. At first he rambled, his voice thick and trembling, and it was unclear where he was headed. But heads turned when he said his constituents would "condemn me for what I am about to do."
"One of my sons just called me a whore for the vote I cast against this," Mr. Michaels said. Another son had told him, "Dad, for God's sake, don't let your vote be the vote that defeats this bill."
"I fully appreciate that this is the termination of my political career," he said. "But Mr. Speaker, I must have some peace in my family. And I therefore request you, Mr. Speaker, to change my negative vote to an affirmative vote."
He crumpled into his seat and buried his face in his hands as bedlam swallowed the chamber. Someone screamed epithets at him. Mr. Blumenthal kissed his forehead.
Mr. Duryea cast the final "aye" vote, making it 76 to 73. Voting yes were 46 Democrats and 30 Republicans. Voting no were 24 Democrats and 49 Republicans.
The next day, the Senate passed the Assembly version of the bill. The day after that, April 11, Mr. Rockefeller signed it into law. "The wives of the Senate and the Assembly put this bill through," he said.
In that year's elections, Assemblyman Michaels, Senator Dominick and a handful of others who supported the bill lost to anti-abortion challengers. Mr. Brydges, who retired in 1972, died in 1975. Mr. Michaels died in 1992 at age 80.
In 1972, the Legislature voted to repeal the 1970 law, but Mr. Rockefeller vetoed it. In January 1973, the Supreme Court made its landmark ruling in Roe v. Wade, patterned in part on the New York law.
 
COOK
 "I didn't really have a sense at that time that we had done something momentous, though it was long overdue. Looking back now, it seems like a bigger deal."
 
LONG
 "It's interesting to look back and see how the New York Republicans have tended to remain a moderate party, while the national Republicans have moved to the right on abortion and other issues. Look at George Pataki and Rudy Giuliani, who are both on the opposite side from us on this issue. The Republicans in New York actually have a pro-choice plank in their platform."
 
MARCHI
 "Abortion has become fairly automatic. It's a tragedy. I don't think you're going to have total elimination of it, but I think you will see a gradual evolution of measures against it. I would say this and capital punishment are the worst things the Legislature has done in my time here."
 
SHACK
 "This was absolutely the most important thing I ever did. We knew that nothing would ever be the same again. We knew that we were changing the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday about the passage in 1970 of New York State's law permitting abortion misstated the role of State Senator Roy M. Goodman. He spoke in favor of the law, not against it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CONSTANCE COOK -- The assemblywoman from Ithaca, a co-sponsor of the abortion bill, spoke for its adoption in March 1970. "I didn't really have a sense at that time that we had done something momentous, though it was long overdue," she said. (Roy Inman for The New York Times); ROY M. GOODMAN -- Denouncing the "butchery" that women endured (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times), the state senator from Manhattan spoke for the bill in the packed Senate chamber as Senator Ralph Marino listened. Later, he called it "the most fascinating debate we've ever had in the Senate." (Provided by State Senator Roy M. Goodman); JOHN J. MARCHI -- The state senator from Staten Island (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) spoke against the abortion measure as Senator D. Clinton Dominick III, one of the bill's sponsors, listened. (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. ABORTION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WOMEN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



245 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 32; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 4047 words

HEADLINE: A Test Is Born

BYLINE: By Jim Yardley; Jim Yardley is a correspondent for The Times based in Houston.

 BODY:
"Okaaay,"
Beverly Nedrow begins gingerly, holding up three pieces of paper. "Everybody has read this breathtaking piece. I don't think it's one of our stellar pieces, but I think it will do." 
 Shannon Henry-Robinson and Charles Fuhrken smile faintly, withholding judgment on a story titled "Water Hole Rescue." They are sitting inside a conference room stuffed with textbooks, three-ring binders and other classroom materials, though they work for a multimillion-dollar corporation, not a school.
Outside, a chain-link fence surrounds the building. Visitors pass by a guardhouse and register with a security officer in the reception area. The company's name, the Psychological Corporation, lends a touch of mystery to the work carried out behind the building's dark reflective glass facade.
What does go on here?
The Psychological Corporation of San Antonio makes the standardized tests that evoke fear and dread in millions of students across the country, the same tests that can determine whether students graduate from high school or win placement in advanced classes or simply get to the next grade.
So sitting around a conference table, Ms. Nedrow, the leader of the company's reading and language arts group, is debating with two members of her staff about whether "Water Hole Rescue" can be included in one of those tests. The story, submitted by a freelance writer in rural Texas, tells how an elderly farmer and his two sons, Emilio and Carlos, rescue a cow stuck in a water hole. The plot, designed for eighth graders, is fairly simple: the family uses a block-and-tackle device to pull the cow out and save its life.
Ms. Henry-Robinson, a teacher until six months ago, is skeptical. She questions whether teenagers can identify with such a tale. "I still want to know," she exclaims, "will these eighth graders be interested?" Will they be able, she asks, to identify a block-and-tackle? Will urban and suburban children get it?
What about the title? Mr. Fuhrken asks. Will it confuse students? The characters are obviously Hispanic. Is this inclusive or is it prejudicial? And does the story provide enough grist for a reading section? One of the key words is "laborious." Students will be tested on its meaning within the story. But everyone agrees that the writer's use of the word is awkward. The story will need to be rewritten.
As it turns out, the story is rejected, and not because of the concerns stated around the table. Stories, after all, are frequently edited and rewritten. Instead, the problem is that a reporter has listened to the conversation.
So "Water Hole Rescue" cannot be saved, which is fine. There are hundreds of other stories to choose from, thousands more questions to write.
How is a standardized test made? In a politically charged environment in which several tests have been challenged in court, the quick answer is: Very carefully. And, it must be added, with much secrecy -- not only to prevent questions from reaching students before test time, but because the companies that dominate the testing market are intensely leery of surrendering any competitive advantage, real or perceived.
Among the biggest testing players are three of the major textbook publishers. CTB/McGraw-Hill publishes the TerraNova, which in modified form is used to help determine grade promotion in New York City. Riverside Publishing, owned by Houghton Mifflin, makes the popular Iowa Test of Basic Skills. And Harcourt Brace, the parent company of the Psychological Corporation, makes the Stanford Achievement Test, which has existed in different forms for nearly 80 years and is widely used throughout the country, including, in an augmented version, as California's state test.
None of these privately held companies will divulge the size of the testing market or what share they control. Without question, testing has become an enormous business, and a very profitable one. Harcourt's 2000 catalog is nearly an inch thick. In addition to the Stanford, Harcourt creates, publishes or administers customized tests for about two dozen states, including Texas, Florida and Connecticut.
For two days in late February, Harcourt officials allowed a reporter to visit the San Antonio offices of the Psychological Corporation to learn how a test like the Stanford is made. Because the company regards this as a secure test, access was limited; secrecy is considered so important that a photographer was not allowed to shoot even the cover of one test book. And some employees seemed a bit nervous talking with a reporter.
Eugene T. Paslov, the president of the Psychological Corporation, acknowledges that the timing was delicate. Harcourt's credibility suffered last summer after it erroneously reported that English as a Second Language students in California had fared better than they actually did. The mistake angered education officials in California. The error came as a rival company, CTB/MacGraw-Hill, made scoring errors that caused almost 9,000 New York City students to be unnecessarily ordered to mandatory summer school.
Together, the foul-ups underscore the consequences of testing in an era in which a failing score can prevent a student from graduating.
"We've been beaten up pretty soundly," says Mr. Paslov, who became president after a shakeup precipitated by the scoring mistake. "Once you get into high-stakes scoring, even minor mistakes can really blow up. So people are gun-shy."
Mr. Paslov, an affable former state schools superintendent in Nevada and Michigan, attributes the California mix-up to a communications breakdown between the company and the state, and notes that it has been corrected. He believes that tests, and how they are made, are widely misunderstood by parents, teachers and students, especially with their increasing use by the standards movement as a way to create accountability. Mr. Paslov sees tests not as the enemy but as part of a larger effort to improve education.
"We believe we hold a critical position in that reform movement," he says.
Undoubtedly, this is the era of the standardized test.
Once, generic tests like the Stanford or Iowa Test of Basic Skills were the industry's stock in trade. These tests are available by catalog and remain popular with cities, schools districts and even individual schools.
But accountability is a hot educational and political buzzword. Politicians like Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, have made testing students a priority. As politics has changed, so has the testing business. Mr. Paslov estimates that 70 percent of his company's testing business comes from creating custom tests for states. States want to control the test and what it covers, rather than order one from a catalog.
By the year 2003, according to the United States Department of Education, 26 states will require that students pass a test to graduate from high school; currently, 18 states require such a test.
This shift to high-stakes testing has not happened without controversy. Critics complain that a single test should not determine graduation, particularly since they believe the tests are unfair to minorities and low-income students. Dr. Monte Neal, executive director of Fairtest, a testing reform advocacy organization in Cambridge, Mass., argues that standardized tests are an inexact tool to measure what a student knows, especially since most questions are multiple choice. They might, he contends, test whether a student knows the name of a certain concept but not whether that student can actually use that concept. "The test may not tap into thinking skills," he says.
In the testing world, there are no such things as questions. Instead, there are "items." And every month, thousands of items pour into the Psychological Corporation from freelance writers, teachers, military retirees and others who are paid every time an item, or question, is accepted. "Water Hole Rescue" is one example.
The process of creating a test actually begins long before the writing and editing of items. In the case of the Stanford, company officials say three to five years are needed to make a new edition. (Stanford 9 is in current use; 10 is in preparation.) By contrast, a customized state test requires 18 months to three years, partly because state officials, not the testing company, usually determine the curriculum and standards.
"When we sit down and we say, 'Let's put out a new edition of Stanford,' we literally say, 'O.K., we need to start at ground zero,' "says Patricia Pederson, 46, who has worked for the Psychological Corporation for just under two years. Ms. Pederson, a former teacher who has a doctorate in curriculum and instruction, oversees the social science items.
In the case of the Stanford, she spends 18 months reviewing professional journals, textbooks, national and state standards, curriculum guides and other publications. This review allows her to develop a "blueprint" detailing when a student -- say, in the third grade as opposed to the fourth, or vice versa -- can be tested on a certain concept.
The blueprint itself is scrutinized by outside experts -- men and women of all races, many of them education professors from different regions of the country. "We'll send them out some questions they should address, and then we say, 'Rip this apart!' "Ms. Pederson says. It will serve as the framework on which the test is built.
It is at this point that items are written and edited. With companies like Harcourt developing dozens of tests every year (the Stanford series alone has a different test for grades 2 through 11), the demand is huge. Last September, the company received 12,000 questions from freelance item writers.
Marilyn Rindfuss, a public school teacher for 25 years before she joined the Psychological Corporation 11 years ago, is the company's national mathematics consultant, in charge of developing math questions. She recalls how, as a teacher, she often grimaced on test days because of frustration that the tests seemed so disconnected and irrelevant to what she did in the classroom. Then she joined the enemy.
"It's like being a politician who complains about the government, and all of a sudden you're speaker of the House," Ms. Rindfuss says.
Now, she proselytizes about testing with a missionary's zeal. Once, while driving in Mississippi after a snowstorm, she jumped out of her car to measure a circular bale of hay to create a test question.
She knows that teachers still complain about how test questions are written. (Because the term "multiple choice" evokes negative images in the minds of many teachers and students, the company prefers the euphemism "selected response.")
She says she strives to make the questions not only precise but also interesting and written to provoke higher cognitive skills. As an example, she offers a sheet of paper showing an "old-style" multiple-choice question: it includes a picture of a rectangle that is 6 inches tall and 8 inches wide. The question asks, "What is the perimeter of the rectangle shown below?" The answers are (a) 48 inches, (b) 28 inches, (c) 24 inches, (d) 14 inches.
The answer is "b." But, as Ms. Rindfuss notes, the simplistic architecture of the question fails to test a full range of cognitive skills.
She pulls out another sheet of paper with a similar question asked differently. First, there is no picture of a rectangle. Second, there are no answers to choose from. Instead, there is only this:
"A rectangular piece of cardboard is 8 inches long and 6 inches wide. As the first step in making a paper box, Lisa cut a one-inch square from each corner of the cardboard and threw the squares away. What was the perimeter of the polygon that remained? Show or explain how you got your answer?"
The answer remains 28 inches. But Ms. Rindfuss says that this format offers a window into how a student thinks. Increasingly, standardized tests include more of these open-response questions.
Writing questions is one thing. Choosing which ones are included on the test is another. It is a complicated process freighted with potential controversy, particularly in reading and social studies, where interpretation can be wide ranging.
"This is our dilemma," says Ms. Nedrow, the reading supervisor. "We want things that students are going to be interested in reading. But we want to be certain we don't offend people."
For example, Ms. Nedrow discourages stories about grandparents dying. What if a student taking a test had just lost a grandparent? It could hamper the student's performance. Will rural or suburban students understand a question about landlords and tenants? Can test makers include words like "got" or "like" without infuriating teachers? (No.)
Ultimately, national tests must have a universality that finds common ground among students with different backgrounds. And this is often one of the biggest complaints: that shelf, or catalog, tests are too generic. The Education Trust, a national nonprofit group concerned with achievement levels of low-income students, recently published a report calling for more rigorous tests that measure students against established state standards.
Amy Wilkins, a principal partner at Education Trust, complains that tests like the Stanford are norm-referenced -- designed to rank students against a national norm and fit them into a bell curve. These tests were intended to help teachers place students in appropriate academic settings like gifted or remedial classes. But many school districts and some states use them for high-stakes purposes. Miss Wilkins argues that this defeats the purpose of the standards movement: tests graded on a curve, even if customized, measure how students compare against one another, not whether they have mastered the standards.
The rigor of customized tests also varies. The Education Trust report, for example, commends the New York State Regents exams, which are created without the help of a testing company, as a true measure of the state's standards. Test-making companies say they must cater to each state's requirements in levels of difficulty, as well as any distinctive culture and mores. Ms. Rindfuss recalls how one state rejected a math question involving an AIDS quilt, while another state was "thrilled" to use the question.
Perhaps no question looms as heavily over any test as whether or not it is fair to minority students. Earlier this year, a Federal judge in San Antonio upheld the constitutionality of the Texas Assessment of Academic Skills, which is made by the Psychological Corporation. The Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund had asserted that the TAAS discriminated against minorities; in particular, that the test itself is biased, and that low-income students suffer because their schools often do not cover all the curriculum included in the test. The judge agreed that many poor, minority students suffered from attending inadequate schools. But, noting rising minority scores and that students could take the test seven times, the judge upheld the state's right to administer the test and establish standards.
For test-making companies, the issue of bias resonates throughout the process. Test writers now consult baby-naming books for a variety of ethnic names. An in-house committee reviews questions for discrimination or insensitivity, then ships the questions to a bias review committee of consultants for assessment.
Yet tricky situations are common: in one state test, the reading cluster included a story about a Latino youth struggling with the computer. Another Latino youth tutored him and, ultimately, the original boy mastered the computer. Ms. Nedrow and the rest of the reading staff approved the story. But state officials vetoed the story because it initially depicted the Latino youth in a negative light.
"It was painful for us when we put in all that effort and then we see it go," Ms. Nedrow says. "With all the lawsuits that are out there, they'd rather be safe than sorry."
One of the most critical stages of the testing process comes when the test itself is tested. Inside the Psychological Corporation, this is known as the tryout. A few thousand students across the country take the test, providing the raw materials for a statistical analysis conducted by people like Ed Slawski, who is known as a psychometrician. He crunches the results of the tryout and evaluates every question. This information is boiled down to hard numbers for internal analysis.
Sitting in an upstairs conference room, Ms. Pederson, the social science leader, holds out a spreadsheet taken from Mr. Slawski's numbers: each of the 28 social studies questions on a first-grade test is assessed. First, Ms. Pederson notes, every question is assigned a P value, which roughly represents the percentage of students who got it right. If, for example, Question 5 has a P value of .62, Ms. Pederson is happy.
She wants questions to fall between .52 and .79, a middle range that suggests the questions are hard but not too hard. (A .24, on the other hand, indicates that most students are missing the question.)
Of course, the P value cannot truly determine whether a question is hard.
Ms. Pederson notes that students will struggle with a question that is poorly written or ambiguous. So she may tinker to make it more precise. She also ensures that patterns do not emerge; for example, that every third question has answer "b."
In choosing her questions, Ms. Pederson is essentially choosing ingredients for a soup. Her goal is to create a test with a range of difficulty and subjects.
Each question is then analyzed for discrimination. Minority students who took the tryout will be lumped together by achievement. If high-achieving minority students did poorly on Question Five, even though high-achieving white students did well on that question, Ms. Pederson must decide whether to keep the question. In some cases, she will throw it out, in others she will not.
Critics are particularly concerned about this part of the process, which is known as banding. While Dr. Neal credits testing companies for improving the fairness of tests, a change he says has coincided with rising minority scores, the method of including or excluding questions is inexact, he asserts. How many questions, for example, are thrown out? Harcourt does not say. Others, like Al Kaufman, a lawyer who represented the Mexican American education fund, says that companies would never include a question that minorities got right and whites overwhelmingly got wrong.
he scoring season beGins in March and continues into the summer, when more than seven million tests pour into a drab yellow building on a commercial strip in San Antonio. There is no sign in front of the building. Trucks arrive night and day, delivering thousands of brown boxes filled with completed tests.
Walking through the 200,000-square-foot building, Mr. Paslov and Clark Miller, who runs the scoring operation, describe the scope of the task: tests are placed on blue library carts, then cut along the binder by machines and scanned into a computer. The computer automatically grades the multiple-choice questions and electronically feeds the open-response questions to rows of computers in large grading rooms.
Grading these questions is more subjective, and states often dictate how the company should do it. Often, a monitor conducts daily reviews to ensure grading is being done fairly and accurately.
From beginning to end, the process of grading a batch of tests is completed within 28 days. During the high season, as many as 1,000 full-time and part-time employees handle the huge crush, everyone packed into a building about as charming as a textile mill.
"It's not really glamorous, is it?" says Mr. Miller.
No, glamorous would be incorrect.
Competitive. Secretive. Disciplined. Evolving. Controversial. Educational. Any of those answers would be correct on a multiple-choice test.
Outside the scoring center, the temperatures are unusually mild as Mr. Paslov climbs into his car to return to the main office. The next week he will fly to California for a conference, and on to other states to talk tests. He is well aware of the criticisms of the tests made by his and other companies. Like others on his staff, he takes it seriously but tries to keep a sense of humor. Employees joke that it is not safe to disclose their professions at cocktail parties. But they can also sound evangelical -- some describe test days as "days of celebration" for the students.
Try telling that to a classroom of 11th graders.
 
Standards: A Primer
THE MOVEMENT: Today's clamor for measurable performance standards started with "A Nation at Risk," the 1983 federal report that questioned students' ability to compete in a global economy. By the 90's, with business leaders complaining that high-school graduates lacked basic math and reading skills, many politicians answered with a single mantra: standards.
STANDARDS: Professional associations representing various fields of study responded by establishing voluntary national standards. Today, every state but Iowa has written its own standards, describing what children should be able to do at given grade levels. Some standards are vague. Delaware kindergarteners through third graders "will use calendars, clocks, schedules and written records to record or locate events in time." Others, like New York State's, are more specific. The state publishes learning standards in seven fields, defining reasoning skills (say, applying mathematical and scientific analysis to problem solving) and presenting specific benchmarks (say, recognizing the order of whole numbers and commonly used fractions in the first and second grade).
HIGH STAKES: A critical component of the movement is assessing student progress. Increasingly, rewards and penalties directed at schools, administrators and children are tied wholly or in part to test scores. In 18 states, high- school students must pass tests to graduate, and many school districts base grade-level promo- tions on test scores. New York City students take a citywide test at third, fifth, sixth and seventh grade. The scores help officials determine whether to promote the students, said Bill Weichun, director of assessment for the Board of Education. Scores on state fourth- and eighth-grade tests are also used in promotion decisions.
OFF-THE-SHELF TESTS: National tests, like the Iowa Test of Basic Skills, Stanford Achievement Test and TerraNova, base questions on the national standards, regional curriculums and testing research. States, districts or schools purchase these to give outright or they are augmented with additional questions.
NORM-REFERENCED TESTING: Most national tests are scored by comparing student results to a national norm; results are expressed as a percentile. To determine norms, which are typically configured every seven years, test makers give exams to a representative sampling of students. Progress toward standards cannot be assessed with norm-referenced exams because they test how students compare with others, not how much of them they know. New York City uses a modified TerraNova, a norm-referenced test published by CTB/McGraw-Hill, and is working to match its questions to state standards to create a criterion-based exam.
CRITERION-BASED TESTING: This system measures student performance based on standards. Scores are reported as levels -- not proficient, basic, proficient, advanced. Without a curve, everyone theoretically can be proficient. More and more states, including Kentucky, Maryland, Texas, Michigan and Ohio, are creating exams based on standards.
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT: Educators are moving away from multiple-choice questions toward open-ended questions requiring longer answers. In math, for instance, students must show how they got their answers. New York City is developing a test that will combine the multiple-choice TerraNova with its PAM and PAL tests (performance assessment in math and in language arts). This year, sixth graders take the combined test in language arts and fifth and seventh graders take it in mathematics. PAULA L. PARK
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Education Life section last Sunday about problems with high-stakes testing referred incorrectly to a test used by the Philadelphia school district. It is a customized Stanford Achievement Test, not an unmodified Iowa Test of Basic Skills.
A picture caption with an article about learning disabilities misstated the status of Ashley C. Rondini at Landmark College. She is a faculty member, not a student.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tests hot off the press at the Psychological Corporation in San Antonio. Opposite page, top, third graders at the Hutchinson School in Pelham, N.Y., take a state reading test / though this one's just for practice. Bottom, the secrets of test making are taught.; Piling up the tests in a warehouse for shipment to anxious children throughout the nation. And back they come to San Antonio for scoring on computers, left. Confidentiality at a test-making company is considered paramount. Opposite page, employees confer in a secure area. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "TEST MAKING: Questionable Questions"
Test companies strive to avoid vague or misleading questions. Here are some questions used for training at the Psychological Corporation, which makes the Stanford Achievement Test.
1. Knowing all the different kinds of land forms is important to the study of geography, and there are many kinds, including islands and peninsulas. This land form is best described as:
A. Land surrounded by water
on three sides.
B. A narrow neck of land connecting
two larger land masses.
C. Land surrounded on all
sides by water.
D. A beach surrounded by cliffs on three sides.
Critique: The item is not clear, as two land forms are mentioned. The antecedent for "this land form" is ambiguous. The item is also not concise, since the question could simply be, "What is a peninsula?"
2. According to the graph, what percent of the city's residents use the public library regularly?
A. Less than 20 percent
B. Less than 30 percent
C. Less than 50 percent
D. Less than 75 percent
Critique: Option A is subsumed by Option B; thus, if A is correct, so is B. Option C is subsumed by Option D; thus, if C is correct, so is D.
3. Who was the author of "Hamlet"?
A. William Howard Taft
B. William Wordsworth
C. William Shakespeare
D. William Jennings Bryan
Critique: For the options to be viable, all should be authors. The two politicians would be viewed as throwaway options.
4. In the story, Melissa decided to go to college after all because . . .
A. She didn't know what else to do.
B. Marco talked her into it.
C. She was afraid she would lose RJ.
D. Her uncle offered to pay her
tuition and give her a monthly allowance for four years.
Critique: The fourth item stands out, so students might select or avoid it strictly on the basis of its length.
5. Which of these has the largest diameter?
A. A baseball
B. A jai alai ball
C. A tennis ball
D. A golf ball
Critique: Unless students have had experience with all of these balls, the question is unfair. The jai alai ball clearly represents bias, as relatively few students would know anything about its size.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HBJ (NYSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PSYCHOLOGICAL CORP PSYCHOLOGICAL CORP (91%); STANFORD ACHIEVEMENT TEST (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PSYCHOLOGICAL CORP STANFORD ACHIEVEMENT TEST (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); WRITERS (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); BASEBALL (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



246 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3520 words

HEADLINE: They Threaten, Seethe and Unhinge, Then Kill in Quantity

SERIES: RAMPAGE KILLERS -- First of four articles: A Statistical Portrait

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN; Reporting for this series was by Fox Butterfield, Ford Fessenden, William Glaberson and Laurie Goodstein, with research assistance from Anthony Zirilli and other members of the news research staff of The New York Times.

 BODY:
They are not drunk or high on drugs. They are not racists or Satanists, or addicted to violent video games, movies or music.
Most are white men, but a surprising number are women, Asians and blacks. Many have college degrees, but most are unemployed. Many are military veterans. 
 They give lots of warning and even tell people explicitly what they plan to do. They carry semiautomatic weapons they have obtained easily and, in most cases, legally.
They do not try to get away. In the end, half turn their guns on themselves or are shot dead by others. They not only want to kill, they also want to die.
That is the profile of the 102 killers in 100 rampage attacks examined by The New York Times in a computer-assisted study looking back more than 50 years and including the shootings in 1999 at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., and one by a World War II veteran on a residential street in Camden, N.J., in 1949. Four hundred twenty-five people were killed and 510 people were injured in the attacks. The database, which primarily focused on cases in the last decade, is believed to be the largest ever compiled on this phenomenon in the United States.
Though the attacks are rare when compared with other American murders, they have provoked an intense national discussion about crime, education and American culture. The Times found, however, that the debate may have largely overlooked a critical issue: At least half of the killers showed signs of serious mental health problems.
The debate was most intense last year, which began with echoes of gunfire in a Salt Lake City television station in January and ended with seven Honolulu office workers dead in November. In between there was a berserk rampage by an Atlanta day trader that left 12 dead and 13 injured. A self-styled fascist attacked a Los Angeles day care center. Seven people died as a hymn ended in a Fort Worth church.
Probably the most shocking were the shootings by two students at Columbine High School who burst into suburban classrooms and killed 13 and wounded 23. The teenage killers were much like the adults The Times studied, but with important distinctions that may bring a better understanding to the problem. Page 29. As the anniversary of that crime, April 20, approaches, the questions about crime and culture will inevitably reverberate again.
The Times set out to examine as many of these killings as possible in an effort to learn what factors they and the people who carried them out shared. For while many possible causes have been cited, including violent video games, a decline in moral values and the easy availability of guns, there has been little serious study of this explosive violence.
The Times included only rampage homicides -- multiple-victim killings that were not primarily domestic or connected to a robbery or gang. Serial killers were not included, nor were those whose primary motives were political.
These are among the findings:
*While the killings have caused many people to point to the violent aspects of the culture, a closer look shows little evidence that video games, movies or television encouraged many of the attacks. In only 6 of the 100 cases did the killers have a known interest in violent video games. Seven other killers showed an interest in violent movies.
*In a decade that had a sharp decrease in almost all kinds of homicides, the incidence of these rampage killings appears to have increased, according to a separate computer analysis by The Times of nearly 25 years of homicide data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Still, these killings remain extremely rare, much less than 1 percent of all homicides.
*Society has turned to law enforcement to resolve the rampage killings that have become almost a staple of the nightly news. There has been an increasing call for greater security in schools and in the workplace. But a closer look shows that these cases may have more to do with society's lack of knowledge of mental health issues, rather than a lack of security. In case after case, family members, teachers and mental health professionals missed or dismissed signs of deterioration.
Whether they happen in a school, in a mall, in a crowded train or in a workplace, these crimes have been characterized in a language of incomprehension -- "senseless," "random," "sudden," "crazy."
By contrast, murder in the heat of domestic passion or a tavern argument, in the desperation of armed robbery or in the cold calculation of gang competition, seems to make "sense."
But in reviewing court records and interviewing the police, victims and sometimes the killers themselves, The Times found that these killings, too, have their own logic, and are anything but random or sudden.
The rage that boiled over into homicide was clearly building in many. Of the 100 cases reviewed by The Times, 63 involved people who made threats of violence before the event, including 54 who threatened specific violence to specific people.
Richard Farley, for example, who was fired in 1987 for harassing a female co-worker, told acquaintances he was going to kill the people who had come between him and her before storming into his former workplace, killing seven. James Calvin Brady told psychiatrists he wanted to kill people, just days before he went on a rampage in an Atlanta shopping mall in 1990.
"These are not impulsive acts," said J. Reid Meloy, a forensic psychologist at the University of California at San Diego. "They are not acts of affective violence, where they drink a lot and go kill someone. There's a planning and purpose, and an emotional detachment that's very long-term."
Yet there was often a precipitating event in addition to histories of failure and mental illness -- a spark that set off the tinder, and gave the crime the appearance of being at the same time deliberate and impulsive.
"You can see someone who is morbidly depressed for a long time, and they have a suicide plan in place, but the timing is determined by impulse," said Kay Redfield Jamison, a professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and author of "Night Falls Fast: Understanding Suicide" (Knopf, 1999).
By far the most common precipitator was the loss of a job, which was mentioned as a potential precipitator in 47 cases. A romantic issue -- a divorce or breakup -- was present in 22 cases.
"Some men see the loss of a job, or the loss of a mate, as irrevocable and catastrophic, something they can't get back or attain again," said David Buss, author of "The Dangerous Passion: Why Jealousy Is as Necessary as Love and Sex" (Free Press, 2000) and a professor of psychology at the University of Texas at Austin. "They set out on a course to inflict the maximum cost on their rivals, even sometimes killing the woman."
An analysis of the database found several recurring elements in rampage killings, including some that surprised the experts.
Perhaps the aspect that most set these crimes apart, aside from their spectacular nature, was this: Regular criminals try to get away with their crimes. More than a third of regular homicides went unsolved in 1997. But among the 102 killers in the Times database, not one got away. Eighty-nine never even left the scene of the crime.
In 1995, for example, after he killed three people at the Ohio trucking company where he had worked, Gerald Lee Clemons walked to the parking lot and leaned against his car calmly until the police arrived.
In 1997, Michael Carneal, a 14-year-old, killed three and wounded five at a school in Louisville, Ky. Then he laid down his gun and said, "I'm sorry."
More tellingly, 33 of the offenders killed themselves after their crimes. Nine tried or wanted to commit suicide, and four killed themselves later. Nine were killed by the police or others, perhaps committing what some refer to as "suicide by cop."
"The number of people knowingly getting killed is striking," Prof. Alfred Blumstein of the Heinz School of Public Policy and Management at Carnegie Mellon University said after examining the review. Professor Blumstein is the director of the National Consortium on Violence Research.
Dr. Jamison said: "The link between suicide and homicide is a very real one, and it hasn't been studied nearly enough. It has always struck me about Columbine, people forget they committed suicide. And that's understandable -- it was the least important thing from the public point of view."
Anthony Barbaro, a 17-year-old Regents scholar in upstate Olean, N.Y., offered a glimpse into this suicidal impulse in the note he left before he hanged himself with a knotted bedsheet in the county jail. He was awaiting trial after firing random shots out the window from the third floor of his high school, killing two passers-by and a school custodian, and wounding nine others.
"I guess I just wanted to kill the person I hate most -- myself," he wrote. "I just didn't have the courage. I wanted to die, but I couldn't do it, so I had to get someone to do it for me. It didn't work out."
One of the most remarkable insights to emerge from the survey is how much these killers differ from the typical American murderer.
Half of all murderers in this country are black. Eighty percent went to high school, and no further. Most of them killed someone they knew, or while committing another crime, like a robbery.
The rampage killers, on the other hand, were white, by far, though 18 of the 102 were black, and 7 Asian. The racial profile of the rampage killers is close to that of the entire population.
The rampage killers were overwhelmingly male -- but not entirely. Six were female, and they exhibited many of the same disturbed, aggressive characteristics of the males. Here again, however, was a distinction from regular murderers, who are about twice as likely as rampage killers to be women.
The rampage killers were far more likely to have a military background, and to kill strangers. There are intriguing age differences as well. The rampage killers were older than regular murderers, with more in their 40's and 50's and fewer in their 20's, compared with the typical killer.
Of the rampage killers who were over 25, a third had college degrees. Another third had some college education. Only nine had less than a high school diploma.
And there seemed to be no urban bias for these crimes, as there is for other violent crimes; 31 were in suburban areas, 25 were in small towns or rural areas. Forty two of those surveyed committed their crimes in urban areas.
That profile -- a group that is largely suicidal, and shows few of the demographic patterns of poverty and race associated with regular crime -- suggests that mental illness plays a huge role, psychiatrists say.
"Mental illness does not vary in different races, but socioeconomics do," said Dr. Lothar Adler, director of a psychiatric hospital in Muhlhausen, Germany, and author of "Amok," a book on multiple murder.
The Times found much evidence of mental illness in its subjects. More than half had histories of serious mental health problems -- either a hospitalization, a prescription for psychiatric drugs, a suicide attempt or evidence of psychosis.
Of the 24 who had been prescribed psychiatric drugs, 14 had stopped taking them when they committed their crimes. Mr. Clemons, for instance, ran out of drugs a week before his crime, according to relatives.
Recent studies have shown that the mentally ill are no more violent than other people, except when they are off their medications, or have been abusing drugs or alcohol.
Indications of mental illness were far more common among the 100 cases than was evidence supporting popular explanations that emerged in the days after some of these spectacular events. Violent video games or television were mentioned in only a handful of cases. Three killers showed an interest in the occult. Racist ideas were apparent in the backgrounds of 16.
But 48 killers had some kind of formal diagnosis, often schizophrenia. Some of the diagnoses came after examinations by psychiatrists in trial preparations -- which did not usually help in their defense, as only eight avoided conviction on grounds of insanity. Twenty-five killers received diagnoses before their crimes, which illustrates another recurring issue: They do not just suddenly snap. Many have long histories not only of mental illness but of failure and dislocation.
In spite of their education levels, for instance, a striking number -- more than half -- were unemployed.
"The high education level is one thing I hadn't anticipated, and the link to unemployment is another thing I didn't realize," Professor Blumstein said. "One of the things that education does is raise expectations, and raised ones are more readily frustrated."
For people without the emotional resources to accommodate it, frustration "can lead to rage, can lead to suicide," Professor Blumstein said.
These crimes are not new. Public rampage killings first entered the national consciousness with Charles Whitman, who stood on the University of Texas's tower in 1966, firing his rifle at students, killing 14 people.
Nor are they peculiarly American. The best scientific thinking, in a field that is admittedly understudied, now holds that multiple, public murder occurs at a fairly constant level across time and cultures. What some people call "running amok," a term first used in Malaysia to describe frenzied, indiscriminate killing, has been observed in many cultures, with weapons as varied as grenades and tanks in addition to high-powered handguns.
"Even though homicide rates and suicide rates are very different from country to country," said Peter M. Marzuk, a professor in the department of psychiatry at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University, "the rates of murder-suicide are really the same throughout the world."
Yet there is a strong impression that they have become more common. In an effort to confirm the trend, The Times analyzed F.B.I. reports of all homicides since 1976. Each year there were 15,000 to 22,000 homicides, but very few involved three or more victims.
That universe shrank even more, to just a few dozen, when The Times weeded out those involving robbery or gang violence, and those in which the primary victim was a family member.
What is left is the closest thing there is to a census of rampage killings -- about one-tenth of one percent of all killings.
And it shows that in the 1990's, they increased.
Their number remained fairly consistent from 1976 to 1989, averaging about 23 a year, only once going above 30. But between 1990 and 1997, the last year for which data was available, the number averaged over 34, dipping below 30 only once, in 1994.
"In the early 90's, for some reason, it increased, and seems to have a different level since," said Steven Messner, a criminologist at the State University of New York at Albany, who reviewed the numbers at the request of The Times.
There are many possible explanations. But the shift coincides, roughly at least, with a trend of increasing availability of more lethal weapons. In the late 1980's, the production of semiautomatic pistols in the United States overtook the production of revolvers, and with their larger ammunition magazines and faster reloading, semiautomatics have added to the potential for mayhem.
The effect may be apparent in the number of deaths per murderous incident, which suddenly increased in 1993 and has remained high since, according to the analysis of F.B.I. data by The Times.
"You have drastically increased the ability to inflict death and injury," said Tom Diaz, author of "Making a Killing: The Business of Guns in America" (New Press, 1999) and a senior policy analyst at the Violence Policy Center. "That means you can shoot more rounds faster and easier, what they call spray and pray."
In the Times study, wielders of semiautomatics inflicted more injuries. The ratio of maimed to killed victims was 50 percent higher than for those who used other weapons. Yet, the increased availability of high-powered weapons may not explain everything. Some kinds of multiple murder have declined or remained static. Killings of three or more people to cover up another felony, like robbery, have not increased, for example. Neither have multiple killings of relatives. The number of incidents in which three or more died and the principal victim was a family member has remained fairly steady, around 30 cases a year.
"It used to be the most common type of this violence was in the family," said James Alan Fox, author of "Overkill: Mass Murder and Serial Killing Exposed" (Dell, 1996) and one of the nation's foremost experts on mass murder. "Now it's no longer true. It's in the workplace and in the schools."
Experts believe the crimes may be feeding on each other, particularly in an era of saturation coverage by cable television. Fourteen of the killers expressed knowledge about their predecessors.
For example, Ladislav Antalik, a Czech immigrant who killed two former co-workers and then himself after being fired from his job in Research Triangle Park, N.C., in 1994, had a newspaper article in his car describing a previous massacre.
The Columbine killers talked of doing it bigger and better than it had been done before. William Kreutzer, known as Crazy Kreutzer, as he set out to mow down a company of soldiers at Fort Bragg with an assault rifle and a semiautomatic pistol, told a friend he knew what the record number of multiple killings was.
But beyond the question of whether one event triggered the next, experts say the recent increases in these crimes strongly suggest a social contagion.
"Why do you get a lot of people doing the same thing?" said Joseph Westermeyer, a psychiatrist at the University of Minnesota who has studied epidemics of explosive murder in other cultures. "I think there is this copycat element."
Dr. Adler, in his book, documented two cases of soldiers running amok with a tank in Germany in the 1980's after a widely publicized tank attack there. Army security was increased, and "tank amok never happened in Germany again," Dr. Adler said.
An angry, depressed, unstable, perhaps mentally ill person picks up a gun because it has become a known alternative. "Something that was inconceivable to many people suddenly becomes conceivable," Dr. Messner said.
"The transmission mechanism seems to be nothing more or less than that it's an idea that's in the air," said Philip Cook, a professor of public policy at Duke University, who has studied social contagions. "So you have these kind of catastrophic consequences from what seems a minor change in the environment."
 
How the Study Was Conducted
The New York Times set out to study rampage killings by assembling a detailed database of as many such crimes as could be discovered by searching news clippings in all 50 states, scientific papers and other sources.
Times researchers and reporters found 100 cases that met strictly defined criteria aimed at encompassing the kind of crimes that seem to have become more common recently. The crimes had to have had multiple victims, at least one of whom died, and to have occurred substantially at one time and in a place where people gather -- a workplace, a school, a mall, a restaurant, a train. Multiple killings that were a result of domestic strife, robbery or political terrorism were excluded, as were serial killings.
Reporters and researchers reviewed newspaper articles and court transcripts, and interviewed prosecutors, victims, families and, when possible, the killers. Reporters recorded into a database more than 90 separate pieces of information on each crime, including age, mental health histories, victim relationships, weapons used, warning signs, location, time of day and criminal records.
Ford Fessenden, a database reporter at The Times, coordinated the research.
The 100 cases include 20 shootings at schools, 11 at restaurants or shopping malls and 32 at the killer's workplace. There were 102 killers. Four hundred twenty five people were killed and 510 injured.
In some cases, it was difficult to get precise information, as news accounts and even police reports varied. And while extensive efforts were made to be as complete as possible, there is no central list of multiple murders, and the database does not include every attack of this type over the last 50 years.
Still, the experts acknowledged it to be the largest and most detailed database devoted exclusively to such murders in the United States, and suggested it should be considered an initial step in a systematic study of a largely unexamined field.
"This should be seen as a way of starting the conversation and getting good social science going," said Franklin Zimring, director of the Earl Warren Legal Institute at the University of California at Berkeley.
"It's not science and shouldn't be addressed as science," said Alfred Blumstein, director of the National Consortium on Violence Research, who was shown The Times's findings. "But I think it's aggressive and careful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2000

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about rampage killings in the United States misidentified the Kentucky city where Michael Carneal killed three people at a school in 1997. It was West Paducah, not Louisville. A map with the article misplaced the symbol for the outbreak in which Sylvia Seegrist killed three people in 1985. It occurred in Pennsylvania, not Illinois.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW JERSEY, 1949 -- Howard B. Unruh in custody after fatally shooting 13 people in 12 minutes on a residential street in Camden. He was 28 and a veteran of World War II. (Associated Press); OREGON, 1998 -- Kipland P. Kinkel killed his parents and shot 24 people in his school cafeteria, killing two students. He was 15 and said he heard voices in his head. (Reuters)
 
Chart: "How Rampage Killers Differ From Typical Murderers"
 
They are older...
RAMPAGE KILLERS
Under 30 years old: 43%
30 to 50: 46
Over 50: 11
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS:
Under 30 years old: 60%
30 to 50: 32
Over 50: 7
 
...and better educated...
RAMPAGE KILLERS
No high school: 8%
High school: 33
Some college: 24
Degree: 35
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
No high school: 57%
High school: 26
Some college: 13
Degree: 1
 
...have been in the military...
RAMPAGE KILLERS
Military background: 52%
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
Military Background: 30%
 
...more likely to be white...
RAMPAGE KILLERS
White: 71%
Black: 19
Hispanic: 2
Other: 8
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
White: 36%
Black: 50
Hispanic: 11
Other: 2
 
...and out of work...
RAMPAGE KILLERS
Unemployed: 57%
Working: 43
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
Unemployed: 26%
Working: 74
 
...and kill during the day.
RAMPAGE KILLERS
Incident occurs before 6 p.m.: 81%
After 6 p.m.: 19
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
Incident occurs before 6 p.m.: 43%
After 6 p.m.: 57
 
They don't get away...
RAMPAGE KILLERS
Apprehended by police: 100%
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
Apprehended by police: 76
 
...and many kill themselves.
RAMPAGE KILLERS
Committed suicide: 33%
 
TYPICAL MURDERERS
Committed suicide: 3
 
Chart lists the killer's name, age, how many people killed/injured and the year and location in which this happened.
 
(Sources: For rampage killers: The New York Times Database. For others: (Age, Race, Apprehension Status) FBI Supplemental Homicide Reports, 1996; (Education, employment, military background) Survey of Inmates of State Correctional Facilities, 1991; (Time of Day) Criminal Victimization in the United States, 1992, Bureau of Justice Statistics (for aggrivated assault crimes); (Suicide) Estimates based on Marzuk, PM et al, "The epidemiology of murder-suicide, JAMA 6/1/92," and 1997 murder rates)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (52%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); FIREARMS (89%); MURDER (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); MUSIC (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); VETERANS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



247 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 98; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: Hanging On In The Burbs;
Too Rich For Their Blood

BYLINE: By James Kaplan; James Kaplan is the author of "The Airport" and "Two Guys From Verona: A Novel of Suburbia," which he is currently adapting for the screen.

 BODY:
Pete Cross bought the big white house on Ridgewood Terrace in Maplewood, N.J., in 1972. It was a good time. He had just made the jump from teaching phys ed at Maplewood's Columbia High School to being a guidance counselor, his lifelong dream. He and his wife, Jeanmarie, his high school sweetheart (they both graduated from Columbia High in 1954) had four healthy children, three boys and a girl, ages 5 to 12. They'd been bursting the seams of their old house, a small three-bedroom near the high school. So, in the midst of a brewing energy crisis and a down housing market, they pulled off a bit of real estate prestidigitation, selling the old place for $35,500 and buying the white 1910 Colonial with two-story pillars on the front porch, a stained-glass window on the stair landing and a big backyard, in an equally good neighborhood, for $33,000. Taxes were $4,000 a year -- a stretch, but Pete and Jean figured they could just make it.
Twenty-eight years later, Pete and Jean Cross still live in the big white house. "We were lucky," Jean Cross says. "We raised a family." These days, though, taxes are $9,000 per annum -- a bigger stretch than ever, now that Pete is retired. Three of their children have moved away -- Peter Jr. is a postal clerk in Florida, Cathy is a stay-at-home mom near Boston and Andrew, who lives in Cedar Knolls, N.J., works for Johnson & Johnson. Only the youngest, David, 34, still lives in Maplewood. He's the town's K-9 police officer. He still lives in his old bedroom upstairs, just across the hall from a room occupied by Maplewood's police dog, a 110-pound German shepherd named Britz. 
 Ridgewood Terrace is a long, wide street gently ascending the low crest known somewhat grandiosely as the first of the Orange Mountains, and flanked by wide lawns and big, solid houses of the same vintage as the Crosses': Victorians and Queen Annes and Dutch Colonials. It is a beautiful street in a picture-perfect suburb, and the houses are the kind that every upwardly mobile young couple moving out from Brooklyn Heights or Hoboken desperately wants to own. People stick handwritten notes in the Crosses' storm door, offering them cash for their place. Lots of cash -- a similar house around the corner just sold for $610,000. And Pete Cross is puzzled and amused by his situation: he can no longer afford not to move from this house. "I'd like to give it to David, but I can't," he says. "And even if I could, he couldn't afford the taxes."
On the surface, Maplewood, population 21,000, looks much as it did 30 years ago, when Pete Cross was my gym teacher at Columbia High, and a pot-loving classmate of mine referred to the town with affectionate scorn as "Mapleville." Neighboring South Orange, where I grew up (the two communities shared a school system), was the first stop for Jewish Americans migrating west from Newark -- there was plenty of new money, and even a fancy neighborhood for it (piquantly named Newstead) at the top of the hill. Maplewood had no such enclaves. The town center, with its crooked streets and mock-Tudor overhangs, has always had a stage-set quality, and the visual message it conveys is Cozy American Suburb. Nothing moving too fast. Self-contained and self-possessed.
But there is a certain amount of artful illusion to this impression. Maplewood is bordered on three sides by Newark, Irvington and Union, which are heavily black and largely poor. And those borders are becoming ever more porous. "Maplewood is an example of the pastoral and mountainous in charming combination, having just enough of the urban character to enhance creature comforts and social attractiveness," reads a booklet issued by the Maplewood Improvement Association in 1902. "It is the children of the village who complete the picture. Their shining faces are the best index of the homes to which they belong and the wholesomeness of their surroundings, moral and material."
Maplewood may look much the same today, but these days, when school lets out, many of those shining faces are faces of color. Columbia High's most famous recent alumna is the hip-hop genius Lauryn Hill, and the school is more than 50 percent black. Most of this shift happened over the last decade, as upward-aspiring African-Americans from Newark, Irvington, East Orange and Orange moved in, drawn by the beautiful houses but even more by the community's renowned school system. Maplewood's black population, less than 5 percent in the 1970 census, had grown to 13 percent by 1990. (The higher proportion of minorities in the schools stems from the replacement of white empty nesters by blacks with school-age children.)
Initially, the influx of students transferring from poorer schools sent test scores into a downward spike, and the influx of minority families triggered a certain degree of real estate panic. Blacks and whites alike charged real estate agents with racial steering, and white flight rather than natural turnover has contributed to much of the mutation in the community's ethnic makeup.
Columbia High is trying hard to regroup, and there has been some success. A diversity coordinator was hired (though she has since left and hasn't been replaced); test scores are creeping up. The school is peaceful and clean, and while a security guard is stationed in the lobby, anyone looking for gangs, graffiti or metal detectors will have to look elsewhere.
A complex equilibrium reigns. The real estate market is booming, largely thanks to Midtown Direct, a revamping of New Jersey Transit train lines that eliminated the antiquated train-to-Hudson-tubes transfer at Hoboken and shaved the commute from Maplewood to Penn Station, some 20 miles, to just over 30 minutes. Median household income in 1990 was a solid $59,306 for blacks and $57,947 for whites. Overall crime has dropped substantially -- 39 percent -- since a peak in 1980, and car theft, which reached a fever pitch in Newark a few years ago and spread across the border into Maplewood, stands at its lowest level in 15 years. The town hasn't had a murder since 1995 (when there was one) and had fewer burglaries in 1999 than in any other year since 1973. Residents proudly cite Maplewood as a model of ethnic and economic integration.
There are blips. The frequently redistricting public school system often seems to be its own worst enemy. The Board of Education's recent decision to bus students with severe disciplinary and academic problems from Columbia High to a special facility in a former South Orange elementary school provoked outrage from the largely white residents in the school's neighborhood. And the basketball courts in Memorial Park, a stone's throw from Maplewood center, remain a focus of controversy every spring and summer, as the (mostly white) neighbors complain about noise, garbage and vulgarity from the (mostly black) players.
Downtown Maplewood feels as poky as it did in the 60's, but most of its stores have turned over several times since then. Food businesses, both restaurants and takeout shops, are everywhere -- a subtle sign that the reign of the single-commuter household is over. This is the age of the commuting couple, both incomes necessary to afford the mortgage and taxes, both husband and wife too busy to do much cooking.
Pete Cross and I are sitting in one of the town's less chichi eating establishments, the Maple Leaf diner, where the waitress and a good deal of the clientele, not to mention many of the people we passed on the street on our way to lunch, know him by first name. Cross has lived in Maplewood all his life. His grandfather, Charles Cross, built one of the first houses on Prospect Street -- then largely farmland -- shortly before the turn of the last century. In 1906, Charles Cross wrote Maplewood's first Police Act, formalizing the existence of a volunteer department, which he briefly headed. "I like the idea of my son David being on the police force, and my grandfather wrote the act," Pete Cross says.
The hard-eyed glare I remember from gym class has given way to a certain twinkle. Cross is a handsome and youthful 63 -- he swims laps and lifts weights almost every morning -- and still walks with an athlete's slim-hipped swagger. "You didn't smoke, you didn't drink, or you got kicked off the team," he says, of his glory days as an all-state third baseman for the Columbia High School baseball team. "Team rules, I followed."
He takes out a sheaf of pictures. One of them is of the brown fish-scale-shingled Victorian his grandfather built on Prospect Street. "My parents had their wedding reception in that house," he says. "I lived there my whole childhood. Maplewood feels very similar to when I was young."
I tell him I've visited Columbia High a couple of times in the last few years. A very different place, I say.
Cross nods. "The minority presence was only 3 or 4 percent when you went there; now that it's 50-50. . . . " His voice trails off.
"Is it working?" I ask.
He gives me a look. "You get more kids now at both academic extremes," he says. "Where's the middle? Where's Pete Cross? But it's still a great school. We average 50 to 60 kids admitted early-decision at some of your top colleges. Enrollment's going up -- we're at around 1,800 now; we got as low as 1,200."
Is white flight still a problem?
"We talk about it a lot," he admits. "You still see a lot of kids transferring to private schools. But you know what? I think it's working at Columbia. We've had our problems. But the kids, they walk side by side in the hall, white and black. If there's any problem, it's not white against black, it's black against black, the Haitians and the local-born kids."
"Hey," Cross says, "want to see the house on Prospect Street?" Lunch is done. We've walked to town -- Pete doesn't like to drive anywhere if he can help it. So we amble back toward Ridgewood Terrace, past the video store and yuppie caterers, past the pizza parlor where Pietz Hardware used to be, past a clutch of old gaffers standing around, one of them, florid-faced, wearing a U.S.S. New Jersey baseball cap. "Hi, Pete; hi, Pete," everyone says.
The houses get bigger as we cross Ridgewood Road. Cross's place is just two up from the corner. We climb into his gold Chrysler minivan and head back through town, past the grand municipal building, with stars-and-stripes bunting on its sandstone pillars. And there, at the corner of Prospect and Oakland, is the fish-scale-shingled brown Victorian, perfectly preserved and unbearably sweet in its proportions, a snapshot of a softer time.
"There it is," Pete says.
It's beautiful, I tell him. But it's beautiful, I realize, because someone a lot newer to town than the Crosses has put a lot of money into restoring it.
David Cross repeats his father's senti-ments about Maplewood. "It truly hasn't changed that much since I was young," he insists. "Kids still gather in town every weekend the way they always have. There's never really any trouble."
Would this tend to make his police work -- boring?
"Nah," he says, grinning lopsidedly. He's sitting at his parents' dining-room table, a solid young man with a weight lifter's torso, a brush cut and warm brown eyes. "There's always something going on." What he means, he elaborates, is not crime but planned events like the Fourth of July. He mentions the dropping car-theft and burglary statistics.
Why, then, does Maplewood need a police dog?
"He's a deterrent," Cross says, smiling. The town's K-9 program, he tells me, was modeled after that of Irvington, which has -- and needs -- eight dogs. The fact that Maplewood has only one says something about both its smallness and its relatively low crime rate. Yet there's an ambiguity about the presence here of such a menacing creature. David Cross tells a story of apprehending eight kids in a stolen car who were about to scatter on foot when he gave the required verbal warning: "Stop or I'll release the canine!"
He adds dryly, "They chose to give up."
On the other hand, Pete Cross told me that Britz once cornered him in an upstairs bedroom, where, not knowing the release command, he remained until his son came home.
Asked about the racial changes in Maplewood, David Cross gives a no-big-deal shrug. Where does the nearest black family live? He points a thumb over his shoulder. "Next door," he says. There are a lot more black families, though, near the Newark/Irvington/Union borders, on the other side of town, far from Ridgewood Terrace.
David Cross has traveled around a bit -- he's driven half the Pacific Coast Highway. Has he ever seen anyplace like Maplewood? He shakes his head. "Some people might take it as a knock, but it's Mayberry," he says. "Everybody knows everybody. A lot of the places I go are resorts -- nobody knows nobody. You're just a tab. The goodness is gone. Not here."
Still, a town's goodness is rarely simple -- or cheap. "I'm thinking about condos," Pete Cross tells me. "Maybe South Jersey. I want to get thinner on the taxes." David Cross is looking at small houses out along the Route 78 corridor in Morris County. The future is irresistible. But how much will Maplewood and the Crosses miss each other?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete and Jeanmarie Cross would like to give the house to their son David, center, but the taxes would be too high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); COLUMBIA HIGH SCHOOL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA HIGH SCHOOL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAPLEWOOD (NJ); UNITED STATES (78%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS CHILDREN (90%); DOGS (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (77%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, JAMES; CROSS, PETE PETE CROSS (90%); JEAN CROSS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000



248 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: NEW ECONOMY;
Tuning in the new way: The Internet scene may just have a lot in common with the 1960's.

BYLINE: By Leslie Kaufman 

 BODY:
FOR Joshua White, the vibe at Pseudo.com, the dot-com enterprise where he is employed these days, is amusingly reminiscent of a different era: the 1960's.
Mr. White is a senior vice president in charge of production at Pseudo, a company that creates original off-beat shows on everything from the space program to hip-hop music to broadcast over the Web. The struggle of the young staff to use the developing medium in ways uniquely suited to the Internet strikes him as a perfect parallel to his own life in 1968. 
 That year, Mr. White was a 25-year-old lighting artist who went to work for the rock promoter Bill Graham at the Fillmore East theater in Manhattan's East Village. Mr. White's job and his passion were to create light shows to match the kinetic new rock music emerging from artists like the Grateful Dead and Jimi Hendrix. He was at the center of cultural change, and it felt good.
"I wasn't chasing after anything traditional," he recalls. His job, after all, was something no one had done before.
"There was this feeling among those that were in it," he added, "that we were involved in something that older people would not get. And then, like now, everyone over 30 is an outsider. They come by and want to be part of it, but they just don't get it."
What is it about the zeitgeist of the Internet of today that keeps calling to mind the radical 1960's? Let's have no illusions: the two decades are decidedly at odds in terms of ideology.
The earlier era was defined by a rejection of prevailing social norms, from segregation to sexual modesty to name a few. Today's dot-com babies think about transforming commerce not values and mores. And they are working happily within establishment parameters to do it, fighting not in the streets but on the Street.
In the 1960's, dropping out meant dodging the draft and moving to Canada to join a farming collective. Today, it means skipping out of college before graduation to join a technology start-up and cash in on millions of options.
"The sense of empowerment is the same," Vern Keenan, who runs a San Francisco Internet consulting firm, observes dryly, "but the politics is very different. Then the group party was socialism; now it is libertarianism."
Yet, for their obvious differences, the two eras are linked in the psyches of many. Part of the connection is that many of the Net's founding fathers came from the crucible of rebellion culture in California -- Steve Wozniak of Apple Computer and Bill Joy of Sun Microsystems to drop two prominent names. But the similarities run deeper than that.
Most obviously, the Internet is a radically youth-centric culture, convinced that dewy college graduates can better see the future than those already tainted by their role in the old economy. Surely, the hippie slogan, "Don't trust anyone over 30," is as apt for this emerging generation as it was for the 20-something protesters who coined it.
"In the university there is an inverse correlation between age and experience," said Clay Shirky, a professor of new media at Hunter College. "The younger they are, the better they are at speaking the new language. So undergraduates know more than graduates, and freshmen know more than seniors -- all of which really upsets the traditional order."
There is also an aura of vitality and era-defining importance around the activities of those who are plugged into the new economy -- only some of which was lost in the recent stock market slide. It is a common refrain for reporters to hear people talk about not wanting to be bystanders to the digital revolution, as if working for a dot-com is on par with going to Haight-Ashbury to drop acid during the Summer of Love.
Richard Skeen is one of those mid-30-somethings drawn to the new economy, in part, for the scene. Last month, Mr. Skeen left a comfortable job at the publishing side of GQ, the men's magazine published by Conde Nast to join Powerful Media Inc., whose soon-to-be-introduced Web site Inside.com, aims to be a must-read news service for media professionals. He is thrilled to have left the polished Times Square offices of the the big publishing company for an enormous warehouse building on 11th Avenue, where numerous new media enterprises make their home and the elevators are packed with gadget-porting post-pubescents. "It is an incredible counterculture going on here," he says.
Mr. Skeen also sees the 1960's in his adventures. He equates, for example, the lure of money in the 1990's to the lure of drugs in the 1960's.
Chris Locke, co-author of "The Cluetrain Manifesto," (Perseus Books, 2000), a polemic that is rising quickly on the best-seller lists, argues that the Internet revolution is the logical heir to the 1960's on another front: communications.
The 1960's saw giant strides toward the democratization of information, Mr. Locke argues, pointing to alternative publications like Rolling Stone and journalists like the great Gonzo himself. "Hunter Thompson was writing about what he was engaged in," Mr. Locke said. "He was not pretending to be objective or out of context."
The Web, in Mr. Locke's view, brings the revolution against the sonorous all-knowing corporate voice to its inevitable climax and resolution in favor of the plebeians. "The Internet enables people to talk directly to each other and to corporations," he said. "It is something businesses ignore at their own peril."
Heavy, man, heavy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PSUEDO.COM ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PSUEDO.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); RAP MUSIC (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



249 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Hope on the Transit Horizon

 BODY:
Not since the 1970's, when the Second Avenue subway project in Manhattan was killed because of city and state fiscal crises, have planners dared think about big new transportation schemes for New York City. Now, with hard times behind them, planners at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority have proposed the first major expansion of subway and commuter rail in decades. In a separate step toward realizing that goal, Gov. George Pataki and state lawmakers last week agreed to try to work out a possible $3.8 billion state bond issue for the ballot in November, which would help finance both highway and mass-transit projects. The accord has serious flaws that will need to be addressed, especially a shaky financing scheme and questionable priorities. But the very fact that political leaders are seriously discussing bold new transit projects is a welcome development.
The Albany agreement calls for work to be speeded on three major projects. They are a plan to bring the Long Island Rail Road through the East Side to Grand Central Terminal, favored by Governor Pataki as a gesture to his suburban constituency; a full-length Second Avenue subway from 125th Street to Lower Manhattan, pushed by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who represents the Lower East Side; and a rail link to La Guardia Airport, demanded by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, reportedly as a favor to his political supporters in Queens. Though each of these priorities has merit, their selection was driven as much by politics as anything else. They will need to be evaluated more thoroughly to determine if all three deserve to be at the very top of the list. 
 Both Governor Pataki and the M.T.A. want to put primary emphasis on the Long Island Rail Road extension and the upper portion of the Second Avenue subway, from 125th Street to 63rd Street. But Speaker Silver wants to start the lower part of the Second Avenue subway now as well, to ease crowding on the Lexington Avenue line, especially if thousands of new Long Island commuters are to come in to Grand Central each day. This page has supported building the full Second Avenue line, but some critics fear it would gobble up scarce funds best used elsewhere. Meanwhile, the La Guardia link needs better justification than it has so far been given.
A project that has been given secondary priority but may need greater emphasis is the proposed extension of the No. 7 subway on the West Side, from Times Square down to Penn Station and over to the river, where it could help spur economic development in a vastly underused area of warehouses, parking lots and wasted space. The factors that are now pushing this area to the fore include the need to expand the Midtown business district and enlarge the Javits Convention Center. There would also need to be improved access to a possible stadium to serve local teams or the Olympics, should New York compete for and win the right to host the 2012 Games.
A separate flaw of all these plans relates to the shakiness of the financing, which many elected officials, business and transit advocacy groups fear could lead to drastic fare increases. The plan calls for the M.T.A., a state agency, to undertake its most ambitious five-year construction plan in a generation, at a cost of more than $16 billion. Some $1.6 billion of the money would come from the proposed state bond issue, which would have to be approved by voters. An additional $5 billion would be sought from Washington, where Congress has been only a bit more willing to finance mass transit in recent years. But the biggest problem is that about $11 billion would come from new M.T.A. bonds and refinancing of old bonds, creating a mountain of new debt that might have to be paid off by higher fares for subway riders and commuters.
The M.T.A. disputes some of the figures used by State Comptroller H. Carl McCall and the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce. But there is no question that fare increases can be mitigated only by tapping other sources of financing. Mayor Giuliani and Governor Pataki need to find more resources for the system, and they have to work together -- something they do not do very well -- to pressure Congress and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to provide more money. The New York City Partnership also proposes raising tolls on motorists coming into Manhattan, a politically difficult idea that could win widespread support only if voters see the money being put to good use.
Despite these problems, Mr. Pataki, Mr. Silver and the M.T.A. have taken a major step forward in reaching their agreement last week. For the first time in a generation, New Yorkers can actually hope for major changes in a transportation system that are vital to the future of the city and the region. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; EDITORIALS; SUBWAYS; RAILROADS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); POLITICS (75%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BOND ISSUES (70%); BALLOTS (70%); BONDS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



250 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Strategies for Safer Blood

 BODY:
Blood safety is becoming an important factor in combating the global spread of AIDS. The World Health Organization estimates that between 5 and 10 percent of transmissions of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, occur through the transfusion of infected blood or blood products.
A new survey by the agency found that more than two-thirds of the world's nations do not have adequate policies to insure a safe blood supply. Of the 75 million units of blood donated each year throughout the world, nearly 20 percent are not screened for either H.I.V. or other agents that cause hepatitis B and C, syphilis and malaria. The poorest developing nations are the hardest hit by infectious disease, and have been least able to test or monitor blood safety. They are also least able to bear the long-term economic and human costs of AIDS or other diseases spread by unsafe blood. 
 Recognizing this crisis, the W.H.O. has begun a new campaign to improve blood safety worldwide. Blood screening is essential, but for poorer nations, the costs can be prohibitive. The Clinton administration is seeking a $100 million increase in next year's budget to combat AIDS abroad, with part of that increase to be used for blood testing programs. But testing must be supplemented by good laboratory practices, standards for safe storage and transportation of blood, and reliance on voluntary, unpaid blood donors. In poorer countries, most of the blood supply still comes from paid donors or family donors, who pose a risk because they may conceal behaviors that make them unsuitable as donors. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (92%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (92%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; EDITORIALS; BLOOD; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING AIDS & HIV (95%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BLOOD BANKS (89%); BLOOD DONATIONS (89%); BLOOD SUPPLY (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); MALARIA (78%); VIRUSES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HEPATITIS (72%); HEPATITIS C (72%); HEPATITIS B (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



251 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A magazine intends to grow along with the Internet economy.

BYLINE: By Courtney Kane 

 BODY:
AT a time when swings in technology stocks are feeding a debate about the Internet economy, The Industry Standard, a magazine devoted to e-commerce, is starting a campaign to attract a broader range of readers.
When the magazine began in April 1998, it was aimed at the people who were responsible for developing and putting into effect their companies' Internet strategy. As e-commerce has exploded, so too has that pool of potential readers. 
 "There are more people now who need the kind of information we've been providing," said Kerry G. Zeida, vice president for marketing and brand development for Standard Media in San Francisco, which publishes The Industry Standard.
The $10 million television and outdoor campaign -- the magazine's first -- comes at a time when circulation growth is already strong. The Industry Standard's circulation has risen to 150,000 from 60,000 when it began. The number of advertising pages, marketing everything from alcohol to cars to technology, has grown even faster: to 1,678.12 pages in the fourth quarter of last year from 251.17 pages in the fourth quarter of 1998, an increase of 568 percent, according to the tracking service Adscope Inc. in Eugene, Ore.
Mr. Zeida said the magazine, in researching an angle to speak to its expanded audience, found that its readers appreciate a competitive advantage they get from reading the publication. Three 30-second commercials, which start today, take that notion to a humorous extreme by showing Internet business leaders making an effort to keep confidential the information they get from The Industry Standard.
In one spot, two men are seated at tables in a nondescript cafe, with their backs to one another. In a spoof of spy movies, the two exchange a series of quirky code phrases to assure each other that they have the right contact: "Does your wife sleep in the nude?" "Actually she prefers flannel." "Little Bo Peep has lost her sheep." "Leave them alone, and they'll come home."
Then the two exchange their top-secret information. One man quickly passes the magazine, which is concealed in a folder, to the other and says, "See you next week."
A second commercial features a man hustling to enter an empty elevator. As he starts to open The Industry Standard, he feels the presence of a security camera and backs up out of its range. He then takes out a can of spray paint and blackens the lens.
Both spots close with an announcer saying: "Read it. Learn from it. Don't let it fall into the wrong hands," followed by the company's tag line, "The Industry Standard. Your weekly intelligence report on the Internet economy."
The commercials will begin running today in 10 markets -- Atlanta, Dallas, Miami, New York and San Francisco, among others -- during cable business programs that include those of Bloomberg News, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC. The work is the first from TBWA/Chiat/Day in Playa del Rey, Calif., part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, since that agency was awarded the account in January.
In the spots, "we're saying this magazine is just chock-full of information all geared toward the Internet economy," said Jerry Gentile, managing partner and creative director at TBWA/Chiat/Day. "I think what we've tried to do is to personify it."
"The idea of don't let it fall into the wrong hands," he added, is one of "making this your edge to e-commerce, trying to make everybody feel they have their own little personal source to understand e-commerce."
The outdoor portion of the campaign will feature billboards in New York and San Francisco. One ad is a spectacular, a gigantic electronic display situated just off the Bay Bridge en route to San Francisco. That billboard features an enlarged masthead of The Industry Standard, accompanied by a live feed of Internet-business-related news headlines for commuters.
Other billboards show a copy of the magazine accompanied by headlines including, "We never met a bubble we couldn't burst" and "Sugar coating is for cereal."
The campaign for the magazine is the first component of what will become a branding campaign to promote the entire company, Standard Media. Subsequent ads for the other ventures and services will be introduced later this summer.
Standard Media, which is referred to simply as, "The Standard," is majority-owned by the International Data Group. The company also produces a Web site (www.TheStandard .com) and 18 online newsletters including Media Grok, in addition to conducting national and international conferences and events.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a television spot for The Industry Standard, a security camera is watching as someone opens up the magazine in an elevator. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRY STANDARD (MAGAZINE) ADSCOPE INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDUSTRY STANDARD (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); BRANDING (70%); ESPIONAGE (68%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (63%); 

PERSON: KANE, COURTNEY ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



252 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: PEN Is to Honor Two Poets Imprisoned in Kosovo and China

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH 

 BODY:
At the PEN American Center's annual literary gala this evening at Lincoln Center, there will be a pause as two imprisoned poets, Dr. Flora Brovina, an ethnic Albanian in Kosovo, and Xue Deyun, who is Chinese, are honored in absentia. Dr. Brovina and Mr. Xue will receive PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom-to-Write Awards. Each award carries a stipend of $3,000, but the honor's primary purpose is to call attention to writers who are imprisoned or in danger.
"These awards put a human face on the high price that writers continue to pay for expressing themselves freely," Michael Roberts, the executive director of the PEN American Center, said in an interview. 
 "Since the awards were established in 1987, 14 of the 20 writers in prison at the time of the award have been released within a short time. In some cases it has been immediately, and in other cases it has been weeks or months."
PEN, an organization of authors, editors and translators founded in 1921 to promote free expression, sends out appeals by prominent members, coordinates missions to countries where writers are in jeopardy and promotes awareness of the dangers of censorship. The Freedom-to-Write Awards are underwritten by the author Barbara Goldsmith.
One of tonight's honorees, Dr. Brovina, 53, is not only a poet but a pediatrician and founder and president of the League of Albanian Women in Kosovo. After war broke out in Kosovo, she remained in Pristina, running a shelter for women and children. On April 22, 1999, eight masked Serbian paramilitaries abducted her from an apartment and held her incommunicado for two weeks. Eventually she was accused of "terrorist acts," and in December a Serbian court sentenced her to 12 years in prison.
Dr. Brovina's supporters say that she was forced to sign a confession that said she had participated in the Kosovo Liberation Army. In January her lawyer filed an appeal with the Serbian Supreme Court asserting that her rights to due process had been violated.
In prison Dr. Brovina has only been able to shout to visitors from a distance, and in front of guards. Her 18-year-old son, Ylli Begu, an exchange student at Richland College in Dallas, is scheduled to attend the ceremony tonight. In an interview from Texas, Mr. Begu said that his father, Agri Begu, an economist and banker, had visited his mother three weeks ago. Dr. Brovina has angina and needs to be hospitalized, her son said, adding, "She's being held in prison without medicine and proper doctors." Mr. Begu also said that Dr. Brovina's Albanian lawyer had been beaten by Serbian police officers, and had been hospitalized. Agri Begu, in Pristina, could not be reached.
In China, Mr. Xue was at the center of a cultural revival in the southwestern province of Guizhou. Mr. Xue, 40, was arrested on Jan. 26, 1998, with three other poets, Ma Quiang, Wu Ruohai and Xiong Jinren (also known as Xiong Xiang), in the provincial capital of Guiyang. They were about to publish a new literary journal, China Cultural Renaissance, which advocates freedom of literary expression. Chinese dissidents say that the men's homes were raided without a warrant and their writings and address books were confiscated.
Three of the poets were released, but Mr. Xue, who writes under the name Ma Zhe, was charged and convicted in the Guiyang Municipal Peoples Court of "engaging in subversive activities" and attempting to overthrow "the socialist system by rumor-mongering (or) slander." He was sentenced to seven years in prison. Mr. Xue had been imprisoned from 1987 to 1990 because of his involvement in the Beijing student protests of December 1986.
In an interview from Boston, the exiled Chinese writer Meng Lang, a close friend of Mr. Xue's, said that Chinese dissidents in the United States did not know which prison has Mr. Xue.
"At this moment there is no way to communicate with anybody who has seen Mr. Xue," said Mr. Meng, who is the executive editor of The Tendency, a Chinese-language literary journal in Boston. "Though the Chinese Constitution has stated that Chinese people have the freedom to organize, to publish, to speak, they have never carried it out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Xue Deyun, the writer whose pen name is Ma Zhe, in Shanghai in 1995.; Flora Brovina, an ethnic Albanian poet, will receive a PEN award.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA (96%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUIZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEN AMERICAN CENTER PEN AMERICAN CENTER (82%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEN AMERICAN CENTER KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA; CHINA; KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA (96%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUIZHOU, CHINA (58%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); DUE PROCESS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); APPEALS (72%); WOMEN (72%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (71%); PEDIATRICS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); POLITICS (64%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); ARRESTS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: BROVINA, FLORA (DR); XUE DEYUN; SMITH, DINITIA XUE DEYUN (92%); FLORA BROVINA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



253 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Purchase of Robert Fleming By Chase Is Seen This Week
Robert Fleming Holdings, one of Britain's last independent banks, is expected to announce this week that it will be acquired by Chase Manhattan for close to 5 billion, or nearly $8 billion, executives close to the talks said.
That price is higher than most analysts expected when reports of the negotiations first emerged last month. Page C20. 

A Private Solution for Microsoft?
With a federal judge ruling last week that Microsoft repeatedly violated the law, the government has the easy part of the antitrust case behind it. The real policy challenge comes now: What are the right remedies? One respected economist suggests that the government could just walk away and leave remedies to private litigation. C7.
 
Turned On to the New Economy
Despite their obvious differences, the Internet era and the radical 1960's are linked in the psyches of many. For one, the Internet is a radically youth-centric culture, convinced that dewy college graduates can better see the future than those already tainted by their role in the old economy. There is also an aura of vitality and era-defining importance around the activities of those who are plugged into the new economy. New Economy. C4.
 
Malls Look to Compete Online, Too
Web merchants have had a lot of fun at the expense of shopping malls, contending that mall shopping was a waste of time and money. Now, with investors fleeing Web merchants en masse, malls are poised for a counteroffensive. They are vying to fill the gaps left by traditional and online retailers in areas like ordering and customer service. Efforts include Internet connections inside malls for merchants and hand-held scanners that allow shoppers to select items, either to put on a wish list or buy. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C16.
 
A Test Case for Press Freedom
In Canada, advocates for freedom of the press hope that a case involving the author of a best-selling crime book will set a precedent for the kind of reporters' shield legislation that spread in the United States in the 1970's. Stephen Williams's book, "Invisible Darkness," contains precise details of a gory sex murder scene. Mr. Williams has been charged with two counts of disobeying a judge's order to disclose the source of the details. C19.
 
Business Travel Web Sites Planned
British Airways and the online business-travel service GetThere.com plan to announce today that they will create customized Web sites to provide corporate travel services for small and midsize businesses in Europe. C7.
 
Ad Campaign for Industry Standard
At a time when swings in technology stocks are feeding a debate about the Internet economy, The Industry Standard, a magazine devoted to e-commerce, is starting a $10 million campaign to attract a broader range of readers. Advertising. C23.
 
'Sopranos' Consolidates Its Power
The mob family hit "The Sopranos," burdened this season with expectations heavier than cement shoes, finished its second burst of 13 episodes last night having added to the biggest programming phenomenon in HBO history. Ratings soared for "The Sopranos" in its second season, climbing more than 60 percent. Though the ratings are important, there is something broader at stake. HBO does not measure the success of its series in direct income. Because HBO is a subscription channel dependent on monthly fees, the prime consideration is selling people on the channel in an increasingly crowded marketplace. C19.
 
Children's All-Cotton Superhero
The tales of the children's book character Captain Underpants are stealthily gaining popularity against the more mainstream Harry Potter books. The two characters share the same children's publisher, Scholastic, which has now issued more than six million copies of books featuring Captain Underpants. C19.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 11,111.48 up 189.56
Nasdaq composite -- 4,446.45 down 126.38
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.70% down 0.13
The euro -- $0.9545 down 0.0014
The dollar -- 105.38 yen up 2.74

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT FLEMING HOLDINGS LTD (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GETTHERE LP (51%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEW ECONOMY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); JUDGES (71%); MURDER (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); BESTSELLERS (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); WRITERS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (61%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (55%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN WILLIAMS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



254 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: A Leader in Cyberspace, It Seems, Is NoPolitician

BYLINE: By JERI CLAUSING 

 BODY:
Esther Dyson was presiding over the most recent meeting of Icann, the controversial international group trying to create the Internet's first democracy. While she sat on a stage facing an audience of several hundred, her frustration and impatience grew increasingly apparent, as people filed to a microphone in the aisle to voice their complaints.
Many opposed the interim board's proposal to elect permanent members through an indirect process. But Ms. Dyson, the interim chairwoman, defended using an electoral council instead of letting the world's Internet users vote directly for their board representatives. That was the best way, she told the group, to prevent the nomination of "people who are stupid." 
 The next day, after seeing her remark on The New York Times Web page, Ms. Dyson took exception. "Out of context," she said. "I might have said it, but it was out of context."
Whatever her intention, the remark put Ms. Dyson directly at odds with some of the same civil liberties groups that have long been among her staunchest supporters. And the incident, last month in Cairo, made clear that despite her unofficial titles of Doyenne of Cyberspace and Queen of the Digerati, a politician is one thing that Ms. Dyson is not.
It has been nearly two years since Ms. Dyson was chosen to be interim head of Icann -- the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers -- with the mandate of leading the Clinton administration's effort to move oversight of the network from federal contractors to the international Internet community.
But she has ruled Icann's fractious public meetings with a mix of impatience, frustration and condescension. And the paucity of diplomacy, some Internet executives say, has played a role in Icann's rocky start. Among the missteps, two of the group's earliest decisions -- to hold closed meetings and to levy a $1 tax on Internet addresses -- were later rescinded under pressure from the administration and Congress.
"I think that what you see sometimes is that she doesn't quite have the common touch," said Mike Godwin, a lawyer who worked with Ms. Dyson in the early 1990's at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a public interest group devoted to the defense of free speech and civil rights on the Internet.
"I think that there is a dimension of being a political being that involves going out and getting hands on and dealing with individuals," said Mr. Godwin, who is now senior legal editor of E-Commerce Law Weekly, a print publication. "I don't think she is terribly comfortable with that. I think she is democratic in principal but not entirely democratic in practice."
In an interview last week at her cluttered office in midtown Manhattan, on a rare day that she was not traveling, Ms. Dyson defended her leadership style.
"I don't have a tolerance for having my time wasted; I'm straightforward," she said. "It's not a question of intelligence; it's a question of appropriateness."
Indeed, most who know Esther Dyson say she does not suffer fools gladly. But she was picked to head Icann not for her tact but because of her international reputation for independence, integrity and straightforward manner.
At 5-foot-3 and 47 years old, Ms. Dyson is a wiry, almost elfin figure, with seeming disregard for the trappings of makeup or fashion. She keeps her hair short and simply cut. She scurries around her office and official meetings wearing socks without shoes. And she often wears faded blue jeans, typically accompanied by an oversized T-shirt.
The daughter of the reknowned physicist Freeman Dyson, she is described by another Electronic Frontier Foundation colleague, John Gilmore, as having "formidable intelligence." But Ms. Dyson's fast mind can manifest itself in ways that may come across as dismissive and condescending.
"She is not a people person," said Jerry Michalski. For five years, Mr. Michalski wrote Release 1.0, the influential technology newsletter that Ms. Dyson's company, EDventure holdings, publishes monthly. Mr. Michalski left about two years ago to become a freelance consultant and speaker, a decision made in part, he explained, by the emotional wall he said she kept between them.
"She likes humans," he said. "She just doesn't do small talk. If you hang out with her, it feels awkward. If you start talking about feelings, she will turn around and leave."
Whatever her interpersonal skills, over the last 20 years Ms. Dyson has cultivated long-standing relationships with a wide circle of some of the most influential people in the computer and Internet industries.
A graduate of Harvard with a bachelor's in economics, Ms. Dyson began her career in the computer world in the 1970's, covering the budding industry as a reporter for Forbes magazine. From there she moved to Wall Street as an analyst. And in 1982 she formed her venture capital firm after buying a computer industry newsletter that she renamed Release 1.0. With that newsletter came a related annual conference, which she has parlayed into an invitation-only event, called PC Forum, that the industry's top executives and digerati are afraid to miss -- even at a registration fee of $4,500.
Ms. Dyson is also on the board of numerous companies and nonprofit groups around the world and has become a mainstay at Internet conferences and policy panels. And she has positioned herself as a well-paid, highly sought speaker.
As former chairman, and now vice chairman, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, she espoused some of the earliest predictions about the complex challenges the Internet would pose for intellectual property and privacy. And she has served on special federal commissions on intellectual property, privacy and encryption.
In her role as a civil libertarian, however, Ms. Dyson is more of an observer, a thinker, than an activist, according to people who know her well, who say she seems more comfortable with identifying tough issues than taking on the hard fight to resolve them.
And certainly that limitation drew criticism to her 1997 book, "Release 2.0: A Design for Living in the Digital Age," which some critics derided as a naive collection of only sometimes interesting observations.
Patrick Lambert, reviewing the book for Business Week, said Ms. Dyson "glosses over the obstacles that lie in the way" of achieving the "electronic Utopia she foresees."
Still, when Ms. Dyson talks, people in the digital world listen.
"If Esther starts talking about something, and you don't know why, you better start paying attention," said Miljenko Horvak, a former Citibank executive who is involved in several Eastern European start-ups companies with Ms. Dyson. For instance, Mr. Horvak said, Ms. Dyson started talking about online privacy five years ago, well before it became a cause celebre.
"There is this thing that I call Esther's orbit," Ms. Horvak said. "She, by the gravitational pull of her personality and her person get all of these different kinds of people to be in orbit around her."
And that "pull", Mr. Horvak says, does not involve charisma or charm. But finding someone to say anything more critical for public attribution is nearly impossible. "Can we go off the record?" is the first thing many people said when asked to comment for this article.
As one acquaintance put it: "People are afraid to say bad things about Esther. Not because she is not a nice person, or out of fear of retribution from her, but because they think it will cast negatively on them."
The most recent Icann controversy is the issue of electing half of the 18-member board. Originally the voting was to be complete by the end of this September, but is now not expected to be finished until sometime next year.
Yet even as some blame Ms. Dyson for not being a better leader and problem solver, many give her credit for dedicating the time necessary to keep the very fragile Icann experiment from blowing up altogether.
Roger Cochetti, who as a policy executive with I.B.M. helped select Ms. Dyson as Icann's interim chairwoman, said the decision was not based on the assumption that she had any particularly unique insight into the Internet.
"There are probably about 1,000 people in the world who are as insightful about the Internet as Esther," Mr. Cochetti said. "People may disagree with Esther, and they may disagree with either her substance or her tactics, but it's rare -- if ever -- that anyone has ever questioned her integrity," he said. "She is a person who from my experience operates from her principle. You can rely on that."
Even before taking on the Icann duties, Ms. Dyson was spending 70 to 80 percent of her life on the road, attending her different board meetings and conferences and overseeing the personal investments she has in some 30 technology companies around the world -- many of them obscure ventures in Eastern Europe.
Her Icann work comes atop this heavy load. And the strain of the group's highly contentious process shows during Icann's public forums, which are purposely held in a different country each time -- and at which Ms. Dyson has become increasingly curt to the people who line up at the microphones to challenge proposed policies or question the group's procedures.
It is because Ms. Dyson has built a career as a seeming voice for the little guy, the individual user of digital technology, that some people in the electronic libertarian community say they feel a bit abandoned by Ms. Dyson in the Icann process.
They cite an episode last fall, when a coalition of nonprofit groups traveled to Chile for an Icann board meeting. The group asked the board to slow its policymaking until Icann had representation from non-commercial interests and individuals. As critics lined up to question how Icann, for example, had arrived at its business-backed policy for cracking down on so-called cybersquatters, Ms. Dyson's growing irritation became evident.
"With all due respect," she told the audience, "we are less interested in complaints about the process" and more interested in "doing real work and moving forward."
And in the case of last month's meeting in Cairo, Ms. Dyson and the rest of the board at first resisted demands from powerful groups like Common Cause and the Center for Democracy and Technology that they reconsider the election plan.
In the end, despite Ms. Dyson's "people who are stupid" remark, the interim board listened and agreed to allow direct election of the new members. But it remains unclear whether the hostilities will dissipate and the board will again attempt to work closely with the civil libertarians.
Ms. Dyson admits that Icann has made mistakes. But she said she was not sure how she might have made things work better. "Could I have been more forceful in raising some of things that I think were mistakes?" she said. "I don't know. It might have worked and it might have backfired."
And many of her critics and supporters alike agree that, whatever the shortcomings, she has credibly performed a thankless job.
"I don't think anyone could have done it any better than Esther has," Mr. Godwin said. "It's to Esther's credit that Icann hasn't been laughed out of existence."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Esther Dyson, chairwoman of Icann, in her office. A paucity of diplomacy may have played a role in the group's rocky start. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES AND NUMBERS INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (67%); INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES AND NUMBERS INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNET & WWW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); LAWYERS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

PERSON: CLAUSING, JERI; DYSON, ESTHER HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



255 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Koreas Plan First Meeting Of Their Leaders
The South Korean government announced today that North Korea had agreed to a June summit meeting between the two countries. Officials said the meeting, which would be the first between heads of state of the two countries, would involve discussions of a wide range of issues separating the two Koreas, which have been left divided by a civil war since the 1950's. A1
 
Fujimori Faces Runoff
President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru appeared to fall short of winning a first-round re-election victory in a very close race with Alejandro Toledo, who was given no chance of winning just weeks ago. A1 

Greece Re-elects Premier
Greek voters narrowly re-elected the Socialist prime minister, Costas Simitis, a reserved technocrat who brought the faltering Greek economy into line with the European Union. A6
 
African Appeal to the U.N.
All sides in the war in Congo appealed for the United Nations to deploy peacekeepers there swiftly after another cease-fire was signed. A9
 
Bolivia Tension Over Economy
Protests and police mutinies that have left eight people dead continued in Bolivia, after the declaration of a state of emergency inflamed anger over the economy. A3
 
Call for Moderation on Taiwan
The American ambassador to Beijing, Joseph Prueher, encouraged prudence from the United States, as China repeated threats against Taiwan. He said that viewing China as an enemy could become a self-fulfilling prophecy. A8
 
The wife of Zhou Yongjun, a jailed former leader of China's 1989 pro-democracy movement, is appealing for international pressure to have him released for medical treatment, a human rights group said. (NYT)
 
Pakistan Nabs Terror Suspects
The police raided an apartment in northeast Pakistan, seized forged passports and arrested two men on suspicion of having links with the suspected terrorist Osama bin Laden, intelligence officials said. (AP)
 
Shevardnadze Claims Victory
President Eduard Shevardnadze of Georgia easily won a second term as leader of the small former Soviet republic in an election the opposition said was marred by fraud. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A10-17
 
Roads to Homicidal Rage Filled With Warning Signs
An examination by The New York Times of 100 rampage murders found that most of the killers spiraled down a long slow slide, mentally and emotionally. Most of them left a road map of red flags. But in case after case, the Times review found, the warning signs were missed. A1
 
Romance Stalls in Silicon Valley
In Palo Alto, arguably the center of the Silicon Valley universe, men outnumber women -- but finding romance is harder than finding a house for under half a million dollars. The techies are too busy for anything but becoming millionaires, and, matchmakers say, the dating scene is probably worse than anywhere. A1
 
States Increase Spending
Lawmakers in Michigan and in many other states are witnessing the biggest of six consecutive years of rising revenues, inspiring inventive new ways to spend money and wave upon wave of tax reductions. A1
 
A Theory in JonBenet Killing
A Boulder, Colo., police detective who spent almost two years investigating the murder of JonBenet Ramsey says in a book that he and other investigators concluded that the 6-year-old was killed by her mother, Patsy Ramsey. Mrs. Ramsey's lawyer, L. Lin Wood, called the accusations "fiction and utter nonsense." A10
 
Challenge on Drug Prices
The White House attacked the drug industry, saying companies charged higher prices to uninsured customers than to people with insurance. And President Clinton announced plans to hold a conference this summer to investigate how the companies set prices. A15
 
Showdown Likely Over Elian
Attorney General Janet Reno said that she was determined to reunite Elian Gonzalez with his father this week, signaling a likely showdown in the international custody battle over the Cuban boy. In two television interviews, Ms. Reno would not discuss specifics of how immigration officials planned to take custody of the boy, but said that she wanted to arrange a transfer that was not disruptive. A12
 
Drug Maker Testing Marijuana
A British pharmaceutical company, GW Pharmaceuticals Ltd., hopes to develop cannabis-based drugs for a variety of ailments, a company official told the first national conference for health professionals about the medical uses of marijuana. A16
 
 
Military Crash Investigated
Investigators inspected the wreckage of a Marine Corps aircraft that crashed in Arizona on Saturday night, killing all 19 marines on board and renewing questions about its safety. The MV-22 Osprey, which is in the final stages of its introduction, plunged from the sky and exploded at an airport in Marana, Ariz., 15 miles northwest of Tucson. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Health Official Dismissed In Elderly-Care Inquiry
A high-ranking official with the state Department of Health, Joseph Chiseri, was dismissed on Friday for belatedly reporting to superiors that he had been offered cash by a businessman who had applications before the department to expand his adult day-care operations, according to people involved in an investigation by the state inspector general. B1
 
Snow Sweeps Northeast
Temperatures plunged 40 degrees and rain turned to gusts of snow across much of the Northeast. Heaviest accumulations were in central New York State, with 17 inches of snow recorded in Schoharie County and more than a foot in Albany. B5
 
Officer Killed in Car Crash
A rookie police officer was fatally injured within blocks of her Brooklyn station house when her car collided with a minivan, the police said. The driver of the minivan was charged with driving while intoxicated. B3
 
EDUCATION
 
History of Turmoil in Merit Pay
The type of merit pay plan for school teachers that Mayor Giuliani is proposing has spurred political turmoil in other school systems, and its impact on student achievement is largely untested, experts say. B1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
Singh Claims Masters
Vijay Singh of Fiji won the Masters tournament, by three strokes over Ernie Els of South Africa. D1
 
U.S. Advances in Davis Cup
Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras led the United States to the Davis Cup semifinals with victories over the Czech Republic. D1
 
Stottlemyre Reveals Cancer
Mel Stottlemyre, the Yankees' pitching coach and a three-time 20-game winner for the team in the 1960's, revealed that he has been diagnosed with cancer of the bone marrow, or multiple myeloma. D1
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
Claire Trevor
An Academy Award-winning actress who epitomized cynical but warm-hearted careerists, including reporters, gun molls, saloon entertainers and trollops, she was 91. B7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Chase Set to Buy British Bank
Robert Fleming Holdings, one of Britain's last independent banks, is expected to announce as soon as Tuesday that it will be acquired by Chase Manhattan for nearly $8 billion, executives close to the talks said. While the details of the deal have not been completed, the executives said, they were confident the acquisition would go through. The price is higher than most analysts expected when reports of the negotiations emerged last month. C20
 
British Airways in Venture
British Airways and the online business-travel service GetThere.com planned to announce today that they will create customized Web sites to provide corporate travel agency services for small and midsize businesses in Britain and Europe. C7
 
South Korea Warns Workers
The South Korean government issued a strong warning against auto workers who were on their fourth day of strikes to protest a proposed sale of the Daewoo Motor Company to a foreign buyer. C22
 
'Sopranos' Grows More Popular
The mob family hit "The Sopranos" finished its second burst of 13 episodes more than ever the biggest programming phenomenon in HBO history; ratings climbed more than 60 percent. C19
 
Stocks Higher in Tokyo
Stocks were higher in Tokyo today. In morning trading, the Nikkei was up 284.63 points, or 1.41 percent, at 20,537.44. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Hope on the transit horizon; strategies for safer blood; Tina Rosenberg on forensic anthropology and human rights.
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E8
TV Listings E7
Crossword E8
Weather B8
Public Lives A10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%); GEORGIA (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%); GEORGIA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); COUNTERFEITING (62%); MEN (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); MURDER (51%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



256 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Do Diplomas Make Jurors Any Better? Maybe Not

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
Their jury room pontifications do not necessarily mesmerize blue-collar New Yorkers. Some judges complain that they slow things down by talking about themselves so much. And court clerks say they do not come up with better excuses for getting out of jury duty: they are just more obnoxious about it.
Three years after New York State added nearly one million formerly exempt residents to its pool of potential jurors -- doctors, lawyers, nurses and other professionals -- the impact is becoming clear. And the results are not the ones that some people might have expected. 
 Better-educated jurors, it seems, are not necessarily proving to be better jurors. Doctors, lawyers and other professionals play leading roles in deliberations and ask sharper questions, judges say, but they do not sway the opinions of less-educated jurors and single-handedly decide cases. The arrival of the professional set, in fact, has resulted in no discernible change in the number of convictions or acquittals in criminal court, or damages awarded in civil court, according to court records.
But the change, the boldest of its kind in the nation, has drastically altered the makeup of juries in New York City. It has produced a sense that both the mighty and meek are being forced to endure a civic chore, prompted lawyers to change how they argue some cases, and created a vast social and legal experiment.
The city, particularly Manhattan, now boasts what are believed to be the nation's most diverse juries, legal experts say. City jury rooms have become the equivalent of sealed city subway cars, where a dozen people of different generations, classes, education levels, religions and races are expected to meet awkwardly, discuss anxiously and, it is hoped, agree amicably.
"You've got more professionals coming in and you've got a younger group of people that brings in a whole set of new attitudes," said Gregory P. Joseph, a lawyer who headed a special committee that studied the changes. "At the same time, you've got very Balkanized religious and ethnic groups in the mix."
Signs of tension exist. There are reports of lawyers who serve as jurors offering off-the-cuff jury-room legal opinions that improperly influence deliberations. But over all, New York's bold experiment appears to be working, according to judges, lawyers and legal experts.
Diverse juries are reaching verdicts in difficult cases, and celebrated professionals -- from the mayor to judges to the actor Harvey Keitel -- are serving as jurors without dominating deliberations. Even professionals presumed to be inherently biased are showing that they can be evenhanded, with police officers, for example, acquitting defendants in some cases.
Over all, New Yorkers are showing that a diverse jury can not just function but also function well and prevent jurors from stereotyping defendants, witnesses and each other. The change appears to be proving a long-running legal theory -- that 12 people of divergent backgrounds can bring more perspective, life experience and common sense to a case than 12 cookie-cutter jurors.
"You don't want 12 Ph.D.'s and you don't want 12 high school dropouts," said G. Thomas Munsterman, director of the Center for Jury Studies at the National Center for State Courts in Virginia. "You want a cross section. A lot of time you're not looking for the stuff a Ph.D. would know. You're looking for the down-home wisdom."
James Levine, dean of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said he learned about New York's version of "down home wisdom" last fall while serving as a juror in an assault case. Professor Levine said his doctorate was useless as he struggled to decide whether a defendant had intended to pop a man's eye out during a subway brawl, or whether it had been accidental.
"I got educated by a guy who had an education in street fighting," Professor Levine said of a fellow juror. "He knew what blows you use to hurt and not hurt. He educated me, with all my degrees."
The impact of the changes could be seen in jury selection in the trial of the State of New York v. Jing Cheng in Manhattan Criminal Court on a recent Monday morning. Mr. Cheng, 23, a food deliveryman, was accused of getting into a dispute with a doorman in an Upper East Side apartment building last fall and breaking his nose.
The 20 people called for jury selection in the case included a surgeon, a lawyer, a nurse, three people with master's degrees, a former Broadway performer, a retired schoolteacher, a security guard, a messenger, a secretary and a doorman at another Upper East Side building. Even the judge presiding over the trial, Donna G. Recant, had been called for jury duty in the past.
In the end, a business executive with a master's degree, the nurse, the former Broadway performer, a woman who sold television shows, an editorial assistant at a publishing company and the doorman were chosen to decide Mr. Cheng's fate. Because he was charged with misdemeanor assault, a crime that carries a maximum sentence of one year in jail, the jury consisted of 6 people, not 12.
James Naughton, a 40-year-old business executive with a master's degree, said he believed Mr. Cheng's account that he was provoked by the doorman and found it suspicious that a surveillance camera videotape that could have captured the confrontation was missing.
But the woman who sold television programs did not believe Mr. Cheng and argued that there should be some type of conviction, according to Mr. Naughton. The doorman on the jury was open-minded, Mr. Naughton said, but also favored a lesser conviction. (The doorman and the television program saleswoman both declined to comment on the case.)
After five hours of deliberations that nearly ended in a hung jury, the panel unanimously voted to acquit Mr. Cheng of all charges. Mr. Naughton said the process had been difficult but worthwhile and said he supported the elimination of juror exemptions.
"I certainly would want a diverse jury," he said. "I think this guy would've been convicted if it were a less-educated jury."
The prime motivation for eliminating the exemptions was fairness, court officials said. No group, they said, should be exempt from a civic duty long considered the bane of New Yorkers. Along with professionals, people on unemployment and welfare also started being called for jury duty in 1996.
Of the two new groups, professionals were by far the larger one. Exemptions for some professionals, like doctors, lawyers and police officers, were originally created to thwart bias on juries and free up professions. But over the years, politically connected professions lobbied for and received exemptions from jury duty from the State Legislature.
By 1996, there were 21 exempt professions, including pharmacists, optometrists, podiatrists, embalmers, physical therapists, firefighters and people who fit artificial limbs. New York had more exempt professions than any other state.
With complaints from existing jurors rising and similar changes in other states proving successful, New York's chief judge, Judith S. Kaye, helped persuade the Legislature to eliminate all exemptions in 1996.
The changes sparked trepidation in some quarters. Judges worried that lawyers would improperly influence deliberation, and civil lawyers feared that professionals would be more tightfisted with jury awards.
Court officers, New York's version of bailiffs, joked that the arrival of more highly educated jurors would lead to paralysis. One court officer said he and his peers long ago dubbed summer juries in Manhattan "interplanetary juries" -- a reference to the high number of college professors who serve as jurors in the summer, when classes are in recess.
Highly educated jurors, according to their blue-collar critics, have a difficult time making their minds up and seem more neurotic. "They would have a tough time deciding what kind of sandwich they would have," one former court officer said. "Let alone how to decide a case."
But while some judges report an anecdotal increase in hung juries, court system statistics show no significant increase in deliberation times or mistrials. Russell F. Moran, publisher of The New York Jury Verdict Reporter, a newsletter that tracks verdict trends, said there had been a slight increase in plaintiffs losing cases, but jury awards remained unchanged.
Trial judges, who oversee trials and are in the best position to appraise the work of juries, generally praised the change. Justice John Cataldo of State Supreme Court in Manhattan said he recently began supervising jury trials after a three-year lapse and was struck by jurors' high education and professional levels. The majority of people on a recent jury had multiple degrees, he said.
"The questions from jurors during jury selection and during deliberations are good, on the point," he said. "I'm very happy with the jury pool."
Gail Winograd, a longtime Manhattan resident who has served on six juries since the mid-1970's, said she and her fellow jurors tended to make assumptions about each other while watching a trial, only to be disproved once they entered the jury room. "I've always been very impressed with the angles people come up with," she said. "You can't pigeonhole people." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JURY SYSTEM; PROFESSIONS JURY TRIALS (92%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); JURY DUTY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); DAMAGES (67%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); ETHNICITY (64%); RELIGION (63%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID JAMES LAWRENCE LEVINE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



257 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: A Resurgent Michigan Leads Newly Flush States

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich., April 8

 BODY:
Lawmakers here and in many other states, now in the throes of writing their budgets for the 2001 fiscal year, are witnessing the biggest of six consecutive years of rising revenues, inspiring inventive new ways to spend money and wave upon wave of tax reductions.
States are collecting revenues from the taxes on surging industries, fully employed work forces, stock market gains and this year, for the first time, from a two-decade-long, $246 billion windfall from the settlement of their suit against the tobacco industry. 
 "The states are overflowing with money and spending a lot of money," said Stephen Moore, an economist at the conservative Cato Institute in Washington. "You are starting to see -- among Republican governors, by the way -- budget increases of 6, 7, 8 percent a year. States are continuing to cut taxes, too. But the money is coming in so fast they haven't kept pace."
Gary S. Olson, director of Michigan's nonpartisan Senate Fiscal Agency, which tracks the state's finances, said: "This is sort of an ideal situation. Michigan had never been able to reduce taxes and raise spending at the same time. I've worked in the Legislature since 1978, and clearly, these are the best times I've ever seen."
Because of the peculiarities of their taxation systems or their economies, a few states, like Wyoming, Iowa, Kansas, Tennessee and New Hampshire, are not reaping much of this harvest. But most are. New York, California, Texas, Maryland, Minnesota, Indiana, Washington, Pennsylvania and Michigan have been amassing annual surpluses exceeding $1 billion, typically representing hundreds of idle tax dollars collected from each of their citizens.
The surpluses have led to new spending plans and an array of tax cuts. In Maine, Gov. Angus King, an independent, would give a laptop computer to every seventh grader. Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland, a Democrat, would buy textbooks for students in the state's 500 private schools. In the fall, Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a Republican, will send the state's 3.3 million homeowners a tax rebate check of $100.
Some states are cutting sales taxes on food and clothes and property taxes on automobiles. Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, an independent, has handed taxpayers $1.3 billion in sales tax rebates. In January, Gov. Bob Taft of Ohio, a Republican, put into effect tax breaks for adoptions and college tuition. In New York, Gov. George E. Pataki's top priority is lopping $1.25 billion from the state's debt, saving taxpayers the cost of carrying it but incurring the wrath of Democratic legislators and many Republicans who want more tax cuts and spending.
In his new budget, Gov. John Engler of Michigan is dipping into the state's tobacco settlement money for $83 million to give $2,500 college scholarships to students who pass a state achievement test. He proposes awarding $1,000 bonuses to the staff members of high-performing schools, from principals to janitors. He is creating a virtual high school for students to take advanced courses unavailable in rural areas through the Internet. And he plans to give all 80,000 public school teachers laptop computers.
Lawmakers are beginning to call their surpluses "structural," prosperity's antithesis to the structural deficits of much of the 1900's. By law, states, unlike the federal government, must erase one year's deficit the next year with spending cuts or tax increases. The serial surpluses of the 1990's and 2000 let them build reserves to tide them over in a moderate recession without touching programs and taxes.
But in choosing where to dispense prosperity's bounty, Democratic leaders in the states, most of which have Republican governors, say the big beneficiaries are businesses and the rich. "There is a percentage of our citizenry," said State Senator Alma Wheeler, Democrat of Ann Arbor, Mich., "that is not having its boat floated by this economy."
State Representative Hubert Price, a Democrat from Pontiac, Mich., calculates that a family of three with Michigan's median income of $40,000 will save $1.20 a week from a recent cut in the income tax rate to 4.2 percent from 4.4 percent. "I haven't had any constituents walk up to me in the grocery store and say, 'Thank you,' " Mr. Price said.
And public policy analysts say the prudence that states showed in the mid-1990's in setting aside rainy day funds to weather recessions has begun to wane. "Until now, it's been a series of happy surprises," said Iris Lav, an economist and expert on state finance at the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington. "Every year, revenues come in higher than forecast."
But she said three and four years of lowered tax rates and rising spending were consuming a larger part of the rising revenues, reducing the surpluses and resources set aside for recessions. The National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver reports that reserves have dropped to $30 billion this year from $37.5 billion last year.
Some of the tax cuts, especially the rebates, are one-time events, said Mandy Rafool, a senior policy analyst at the conference. "They're trying to give the money back but play it safe," she said. And to avoid the one-year jolt of sharp tax-rate reductions, many legislatures favor small, phased reductions like Michigan's 23-year elimination of a tax on business. In that way, she said, they avoid the political repercussions of raising taxes to cope with recessions.
No state has gained more from prosperity and surpluses than Michigan, where the cities of Flint, Pontiac, Benton Harbor and Detroit formed the downtrodden core of a region that economists called the rust belt. For decades, Michigan and West Virginia shared the nation's highest unemployment rates, often exceeding 10 percent.
In February, however, Michigan's unemployment rate was a mere 2.7 percent, one of the nation's lowest, the state's lowest in at least 30 years and well below the national rate of 4.1 percent. Automobile workers are working overtime and earning an average of $60,000 a year. On top of that, they are collecting $8,000 and $10,000 annual bonuses -- all taxable income that feeds the surplus.
Such unanticipated tides of revenue are pouring into the state treasury at a rate of $2 million more a day than the governor's economists predicted just a year ago and hundreds of thousands of dollars a day above their predictions as recently as January, when Governor Engler submitted his budget.
The governor was first elected 10 years ago as a tightfisted, tax-cutting crime-fighter, and has cracked down on parole and young offenders. Crime is down, as it is in the rest of the country, but prison terms have stretched, and the prison population has doubled during his tenure, to 40,000.
By the end of next year, Governor Engler and the Republican-controlled Legislature will have added 10,200 prison beds, with 3,700 opening this year. Prison spending has doubled during his tenure, reaching $1.5 billion last year, just $100 million less than spending for Michigan's colleges and universities. This year, Governor Engler is proposing to raise prison spending by nearly 9 percent, about the same as last year.
He has also chopped hundreds of millions of dollars in state and federal welfare spending by steering recipients into jobs and cutting the caseload from 238,000 in 1994 to 74,800 in January -- the lowest in 30 years. Last year for the first time, spending for day care, mostly for former welfare recipients who have gone to work, exceeded spending for cash assistance programs.
The rising revenues have let Governor Engler make 31 tax cuts since taking office, the last five in January, and accelerate spending from a 3 percent annual increase to more than 4 percent. He has begun letting the rainy day fund decline from 7 percent of state revenues to 5 percent, the minimum that economists say a state needs in a recession.
But 5 percent, representing $1.6 billion, is still well above the levels of the 1980's, when the fund never exceeded $500 million. "We could take a two-year hit and still be O.K.," said Robert J. Kleine, senior economist at Public Sector Consultants in Lansing, a private, nonpartisan research organization.
Industrially, the state is more diversified, giving lawmakers confidence that it can ride out recessions better than in the past. The old rust belt industries of automobiles, appliances and furniture have been driving the boom, but tax cuts may be reinforcing it.
All together, the governor's office says, the tax cuts have left taxpayers with $15 billion more to save or to spend to keep the economy rolling. "Michigan is a case study that tax cuts work," said State Representative Bill Schuette. "I think by cutting taxes, you're able to flex your economic muscle."
Michigan's new glut of money has also changed the tenor of budget debates. To spurn entreaties for aid in the days of tight budgets, said Mary A. Lannoye, Michigan's budget director, "You could say, 'There is no money. Just no.' " In this climate, more money shows up. So, she said, a legislator thinks, " 'Here's an opportunity to get a project I've been looking at for my community.' "
State Senator Harry Gast, a Republican who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said that during the long recession of the mid-1980's, "we had to cut the budgets of 19 departments." But with year-after-year surpluses, he said, "we have programs coming out of the weeds -- groups with something warm and fuzzy, and some of them have merit."
Lately, as the revenues grow, Governor Engler's adversaries say they have begun to detect a softer view of the poor. "I think the governor is willing, in today's climate, to take itty-bitty steps," Representative Price said.
Soon after taking office, the governor eliminated the state's general assistance program, casting 83,000 single adults and couples without children from the welfare rolls.
"But we haven't had any more of those horrendous program cuts," said Sharon Parks, a director of the Michigan League for Human Services. And, she said that last year the governor approved a 2.5 percent increase in cash assistance for families remaining on welfare, the first increase in 12 years. Another increase, of 3 percent, will take effect in October.
Governor Engler has also given in to appeals for support of the arts, with grants to libraries and museums. "In the early 1990's, there was a significant cutback in arts and cultural spending in the state," said Mr. Olson of the Senate Fiscal Agency, which tracks state finances for the Senate. "Now we're probably spending more for the arts and culture than ever."
Yet in the face of Michigan's bonanza, smoldering issues remain. Surging health care costs are eliminating small businesses' gains from tax cuts, said the House Democratic leader, Michael Hanley. More spending for child care, he said, would slow the progression of young people to crime and prison.
"Clearly," said William Sederberg, president of Ferris State University in Big Rapids, Mich., "it would be better to spend more on higher education than on incarcerating people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John Engler of Michigan has big plans for his state's surplus. (Associated Press)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATO INSTITUTE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LITIGATION (75%); SMOKING (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); TOBACCO MFG (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; MOORE, STEPHEN; ENGLER, JOHN (GOV) ANGUS KING (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



258 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Long History of Turmoil Entwines Incentive Pay Plans for Teachers

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
The mayor says it will help steer New York City's school system off the road to doom. His opponent in the Senate race, echoing the teachers' union, warns that it will divide the ranks of teachers and conquer their spirit. An impasse over the issue prompted the schools chancellor last week to cancel summer classes for 70,000 students. The topic is a hot one elsewhere, too: teachers in Los Angeles and England were threatening to strike over it 10 days ago.
But history, too, has something to say about merit pay for public school teachers, a concept that dozens of school districts across the country have embraced as a way to improve student achievement. 
 After almost three centuries of experiment, the merit pay closet is crammed with skeletons. There is the very dusty payment-for-results plan that was tried and then dropped in 18th-century England; a scandal-ridden scheme in Arkansas in 1969, which offered students transistor radios in return for higher test scores; and the incentive plans abandoned by scores of school districts around the country in the 1970's.
But the version of merit pay that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is proposing, one that would reward city teachers with bonuses based on their students' test scores, has spurred political turmoil in other school systems, and its impact on student achievement is largely untested, education experts say. Most incentive plans have used supervisor evaluations to judge individual teacher performance, relying on a school principal's review in doling out rewards.
Mr. Giuliani's opponent in the Senate race, Hillary Rodham Clinton, said last week that she would support merit pay plans that rewarded entire schools, rather than singling out individual teachers, an idea that some unions also support.
About six states and a dozen school districts are experimenting with schoolwide bonuses, but as is the case now in Colonial, Pa., near Philadelphia, incentive programs that also offer cash awards to individual teachers have typically touched off political firestorms or been derailed by critics.
Education scholars have watched public school merit pay plans come and go and come again since the first United States experiment, in Texarkana, Ark., the beginning of a national incentive program spearheaded by President Richard M. Nixon. Many experts say such plans have been dogged by fraud and rarely lead to real gains in student achievement.
"When you throw individual merit pay into the mix, controversy erupts," said Allan Odden, an education professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who has spent a decade studying incentive programs. "The sad thing is, you could get much more acceptability with the school-based bonus programs." Professor Odden said such programs in Philadelphia, Boston and Memphis and in North Carolina were leading to better performance.
When incentive plans for teachers emerged in this country, about a decade after school desegregation, President Nixon, sounding a lot like Mr. Giuliani today, touted his program as a way to lift poor urban students out of academic failure and hold their schools accountable.
In 1969, Arkansas was the first to try the incentives, in the Texarkana public schools, one of the lowest-performing districts in a state with a major achievement gap between black and white students.
In a program run out of Washington, all Texarkana school employees were eligible for financial incentives if test scores improved, and students who did well on tests would receive free transistor radios, green stamps and rock music albums.
The program, known as "performance contracting" because private companies were hired to test the students and evaluate the performance of school employees, quickly expanded to other cities, according to several education scholars. The Texarkana incentive system was soon mired in scandal, with companies caught teaching to the test and cheating, and school districts gave up on President Nixon's plan.
Arkansas was only one of many places that have seen incentive plans fail amid cheating and scandal. In the British experiment with merit pay, in 1710, teachers were so determined to receive pay raises that they had their students memorize reading passages for English tests, according to Wellford W. Wilms and Richard R. Chapleau, education scholars who wrote an article in Education Week last November about the history of merit pay for teachers. In one account, a school inspector evaluating the program said a group of children read to him flawlessly from textbooks they were holding upside down.
More recently, a 1997 effort in Kentucky to award teachers cash bonuses for higher test scores, as part of an incentive program that also included schoolwide bonuses, was plagued by grade inflation on tests and other problems.
Many other incentive plans proposed by state education agencies and local school boards have died amid opposition from teachers' unions.
In Los Angeles earlier this month, the union threatened to strike, in part over a merit pay plan proposed by the acting school superintendent, Ramon C. Cortines, the former New York City schools chancellor.
Union leaders, who had enjoyed a cozy relationship with Mr. Cortines for the last several months, were so annoyed by his proposal that they called him "Go Away Ray" at a rally on April 2 that was held as contract negotiations opened.
British teachers, too, are locked in a ferocious battle with the government over a proposal that would tie annual pay raises of 2,000, or $3,159, to performance and possibly have teachers evaluate their colleagues and recommend them for bonuses. The teachers say the government's plan would fuel mistrust and lead to bribery and what a union leader called "snooping."
"If you get the 2,000, he'll want you to buy him a pint," Doug McAvoy, general secretary of England's National Union of Teachers told The Independent, a London newspaper, earlier this month. "But if you don't get it, whether he shares his chalk with you in the future would be debatable."
Most large urban school systems that experimented in the 1970's with incentive plans eventually dropped them, although merit pay plans survived and succeeded in some affluent districts, where pay scales are already higher than in the cities and where students tend to do well.
Denver is one of a few urban districts to revive merit pay in recent years, but it is too soon to tell whether that program will succeed, Professor Odden and other experts said.
"It's very difficult to do well," said Kathy Christie, who runs the information clearinghouse for the Education Commission of the States, a nonprofit policy group in Denver. "It's difficult to design. It's difficult to make sure it's fair, and it's difficult to fund over time."
In Denver, a two-year pilot plan approved last fall was to involve 450 teachers, who were to be paid $500 for signing up and $1,500 more annually for reaching certain goals, including improved scores.
The pilot plan was supposed to start in November, was delayed until January, extended to four years and has so far involved only 12 of the district's 104 schools and 350 teachers. Some Denver teachers said they were worried that the school district would run out of money if too many received bonuses, a problem many districts faced in the past before giving up on incentive plans.
Still, some participating teachers said the Denver program was encouraging them to pay more attention to student achievement. "I think you focus more now on what your objective is," said Sue Sterkel, a math teacher for disadvantaged students at Columbian Elementary School in northwest Denver.
The question of whether merit pay discourages teachers from working with low achievers is, along with the possibility of educators' cheating or using other tricks to raise test scores, at the root of the debate over financial incentive plans.
"Merit pay is ridiculous, and the reason it's ridiculous is that it discourages teachers from taking classes that are difficult," said Judith Gabey, a senior English teacher at Murray Bergtram High School for Business Careers, in Lower Manhattan, referring to a school considered one of the best in the nation. "If you work at Stuyvesant for merit pay, you're going to get your merit pay." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TEXARKANA, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TEXARKANA, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; BONUSES; ORGANIZED LABOR TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MERIT PAY (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCANDALS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); RICHARD NIXON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



259 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: PERU VOTERS GIVE PRESIDENT A SHOCK; A RUNOFF IS LIKELY

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 9

 BODY:
President Alberto K. Fujimori appeared to fall short of a first-round re-election victory today in a vote hotly contested by Alejandro Toledo, a business school professor from humble roots who immediately charged that the government was trying to steal the election.
Standing united with all six of the other opposition candidates who vowed to fight any attempt at fraud, Mr. Toledo said, "I can assure you, if someone tries to block the will of the people, I guarantee that I will be in the streets in two minutes." 
 Dressed in faded jeans and a green work shirt with a red bandana around his head, he added, "I'm an Indian rebel with a cause."
Mr. Toledo made his charges to tens of thousands of supporters, whom he then led to the presidential palace in a dramatic climax to a campaign riddled by smear tactics that crippled other challengers.
The President had been almost uniformly viewed as a sure winner, but a popular and international outcry over what appeared to be a growing and systematic attempt to steal the vote peeled away his support at an accelerating rate in the final 10 days of the race, pollsters said.
Mr. Fujimori is seeking an unprecedented third term after a tumultuous decade in which he defeated two terrorist insurrections and ended years of hyperinflation in this Andean country of 26 million people. But Mr. Toledo managed to capitalize on the disaffection the campaign had created, as well as unhappiness over the economy and the appeal of his own personal story as a one-time shoeshine boy who rose from poverty in a family of 16 children.
A complete count will not be announced for at least 48 hours. But a quick count based on vote tally sheets gave Mr. Fujimori 48.7 percent to Mr. Toledo's 41 percent, with a margin of error of less than half a point. Those figures came from a private group, Transparencia, partly financed by the United States and European governments.
A candidate needs to win more than 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff, which must be held by the first week of June. Earlier surveys of voters leaving the polls showed 45.2 percent for Mr. Toledo to 43.6 percent for Mr. Fujimori, with a margin of error of up to five percent.
There were reports of other demonstrations around the country in opposition to reports of fraud, and the crowds gathered in Lima tonight chanted, "Democracy yes, authoritarianism no!"
Mr. Fujimori had no immediate public comments. As the night progressed, several television networks whose owners are allied with the president switched off their election coverage and began airing movies and light entertainment shows.
The chance of a runoff was privately viewed by the Clinton administration and the Organization of American States as the best possible outcome to assure the political standing and economic stability of a country that has been a key American ally in combating the drug trade in Latin America.
Fears of a fraudulent victory by Mr. Fujimori, foreign diplomats here said this week, opened the possibility that the Organization of American States would rule that the election had not met international standards and would withdraw recognition of the Lima government.
"We are very concerned right now," said Eduardo Stein, a former Guatemalan foreign minister who is head of the Organization of American States observation team. "There is an unexplainable delay in the moving of the voting sheet tabulations to the computer centers," where they are counted.
Senior Clinton administration officials telephoned the chief of Mr. Fujimori's cabinet to seek assurances that the vote count would be clean. They also called Mr. Toledo requesting that he cool down his rhetoric.
There were reports of electoral computer glitches and at least sporadic vote fraud from across the country throughout the day, including instances of convicts voting, ballots filled in before they were given to voters and people voting with false documentation, presumably to cast their ballots more than once.
Most common were reports of ballots distributed with the name of Mr. Toledo, the leading opposition candidate, cut from voting sheets.
"There is outrageous fraud being committed," Mr. Toledo declared on a national radio network when he voted at midday. He said electoral authorities were confiscating and hiding evidence of fraudulent ballots after complaints had been filed, adding, "I plead that they stop dirtying this process."
A centrist, Mr. Toledo campaigned promising to strengthen local government, make the court system independent of presidential influence and use tax incentives to bolster agricultural industries as a way to increase exports and create jobs.
With his strong Indian facial features, Mr. Toledo was able to tap into the large urban population of mestizos, as people of mixed Indian-Spanish race are known, and offer himself as an example of what a poor son of a bricklayer and fishmonger can do with an education.
Several television networks broadcast the results, as well as exit polls showing that Mr. Fujimori had lost control of Congress. Mr. Fujimori's coalition, Peru 2000, won the largest block of congressional votes, but two-thirds of the seats will be divided among several opposition groups.
Polls indicated that President Fujimori was able to cling to most of his rural Indian voter base with a campaign that promised to continue tough policies that would prevent future terrorism and a broadening of milk and cereal handouts to ease hunger in Andean villages.
He had also promised to extend lunch programs and computer classes to schools across the country and build more roads connecting the provincial hinterlands, while he handed out hundreds of thousands of land titles to landless peasants.
Mr. Fujimori sometimes appeared to be a reluctant candidate who was pushed into the race by eager aides -- particularly his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos -- who are concerned about losing their jobs or future prosecution for corruption.
Only in the last days of the race did Mr. Fujimori appear to campaign in earnest. He donned Indian costumes and danced on platforms across the country. The pace of his rallies -- held some days at desert cities along the coast and high altitude provincial capitals within hours -- amazed even his supporters.
He also began airing an effective barrage of television and radio commercials arguing that now that he had defeated terrorism and hyperinflation and made peace with neighboring Ecuador, he was ready to roll up his sleeves and attack the problem of unemployment.
But Mr. Fujimori was dogged by a scandal amply documented by the newspaper El Comercio involving campaign workers who forged one million signatures to get him on the ballot. The mounting evidence forced several election officials and congressional candidates allied with Mr. Fujimori to resign, and gave the impression that the president had lost control over what was once thought to be a well-oiled political machine.
He was also hurt by steady criticism that he had replaced judges and manipulated the Congress to run for an unprecedented third five-year term despite a constitutional ban.
In the final days of the campaign, the Organization of American States observer team released a report expressing concerns that systematic campaign irregularities had "impeded the citizenry from having the confidence that sufficient conditions exist for the exercise of effective democracy."
Mr. Toledo, a former World Bank official with a Stanford doctorate and a Belgian-born naturalized American wife, was the surprise of the election. After running a poor third in the 1995 presidential election, he was not expected to be a threat this year.
But Mr. Toledo surged dramatically in the last five weeks of the campaign after the candidacies of two other candidates were destroyed by a series of vicious personal attack campaigns appearing in the leading television networks and tabloid newspapers that were believed to be directed by Mr. Fujimori's intelligence service.
In the last two weeks of the campaign, the smears were directed at Mr. Toledo, but pollsters said they did not seem to have the same impact. "The demolition machine just ran out of steam," said Santiago Pedraglio, a political columnist for the daily Gestion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peruvians were disaffected by reports of campaign fraud. Voters at the National Stadium in Lima yesterday.; Alejandro Toledo, a centrist, rose out of poverty to run for president. (Photographs by The Associated Press)(pg. A4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: LIMA, PERU (59%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); LIMA, PERU (59%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); POLITICS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); FAMILY (69%); TERRORISM (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES); TOLEDO, ALEJANDRO HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



260 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: TWO KOREAS AGREE TO FIRST MEETING OF THEIR LEADERS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Monday, April 10

 BODY:
In a major diplomatic effort to heal one of the cold war's last conflicts, the South Korean government announced today that North Korea had agreed to a June summit meeting between the two countries.
Officials said the meeting between South Korean President Kim Dae Jung and North Korea's hitherto reclusive leader, Kim Jong Il, the first between heads of state of the two Koreas, would involve discussions on a wide range of issues separating countries divided since the 1950's by a civil war. 
 At a hastily called news conference here this morning, officials said the issues to be discussed at the summit meeting from June 12 to 14 in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, would include economic cooperation, reunification of separated families and political reconciliation.
"It appears that North Korea decided that there could be no entry into the international community without some kind of reconciliation between the two Koreas," said Park Jie Won, minister of culture and tourism. "President Kim's Berlin declaration appears to have created the momentum for such a meeting."
This was a reference to President Kim's statement last month in the German capital that the leaders of the two Koreas should meet.
Plans for a 1994 summit meeting had to be scrapped when the North Korean leader, Kim Il Sung, died in July that year. He was succeeded by his son, Kim Jong Il.
With little fanfare, North Korea recently established diplomatic relations with Italy and resumed talks with Japan for the first time in years.
The summit meeting, which South Korean officials said had been agreed on during secret talks in China within the last month, was announced simultaneously here and in North Korean news media -- an example of an extraordinary degree of coordination between the two countries, whose armies still face off across the 38th parallel.
The news is not only a major turnabout in the glacial state of mutual nonrecognition between the two countries; it is also a huge political development in South Korea on the eve of critical midterm legislative elections on Thursday that are seen as a referendum on Mr. Kim's presidency.
In recent weeks, the opposition Grand National Party has ridiculed Mr. Kim's attempts at reconciliation with the North, which have included official encouragement of investment by South Korean corporations in the North to help revive that country's nearly bankrupt economy.
Opposition leaders have accused Mr. Kim of being overly generous with his so-called Sunshine Policy, which has provided food and agricultural aid to the Communist North, but has also encouraged Washington and Tokyo to engage more with North Korea.
At the end of the South Korean news conference announcing the summit meeting, television stations here rebroadcast the statement about the summit talks drawn from North Korea's official television.
"In order to accelerate harmony, cooperation and exchanges between our people, a historic meeting has been decided between President Kim Dae Jung and our leader Kim Jung Il, for June 12 to June 14," it said. "President Kim Dae Jung will visit Pyongyang, and specific details will be arranged later this month."
Asked at the news conference if the timing of the breakthrough had been meant to affect domestic politics, Mr. Park said: "This is a euphoric event for the Korean people, and we would not use such an event for that type of purpose."
Mr. Park explained at the news conference that he had been sent as a secret envoy to Beijing and Shanghai to meet with a North Korean official in early March. On March 22, he said, Seoul made an official proposal for a summit meeting between the leaders of the two Koreas. A positive reply was received, he said, on Friday.
Conservative opposition leaders lambasted President Kim earlier this year when he began to increasingly issue conciliatory statements about his North Korean counterpart, calling him at one point a "serious leader," and saying he felt that the two men could work together. In a statement, the opposition Grand National Party said this morning that "announcing the summit talks just three days before the elections is aimed at changing the circumstances in the ruling party's favor, and is a new instance of utilizing tensions with North Korea for political gain."
Officials said here today that the June meeting was intended as the first of a series of talks between the leaders of North and South Korea.
As one of the last flash points of the cold war, the Korean peninsula has long been considered by military experts as perhaps the most strategically dangerous region in the world. Even as its economy has failed, North Korea has been developing long-range ballistic missiles, and is suspected of having nuclear and biological weapons programs as well.
North Korea's economy has shrunk by as much as 70 percent in the last decade, according to some estimates, and 200,000 or more people are believed to have died as a result of crop failures and famine that have swept the country. At the same time, the country has proceeded with weapons programs, testing one long-range missile, the Taepodong 2, in August 1998 by launching it over Japan's main island of Honshu.
In recent months, American diplomats have met repeatedly with North Korean officials in an attempt to get the country to abandon its missile program in exchange for more international economic assistance and trade.
In recent weeks, the United States has sought to invite a senior North Korean official for talks in Washington for the first time since the end of the Korean War. No date has been set for such a meeting. Pyongyang recently insisted that it first be removed from a State Department list of terrorist nations.
In Washington, Wendy Sherman, the coordinator of North Korean issues at the State Department and a counselor to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, said "we welcome and support this announcement of this summit."
She said that a direct meeting between South and North Korean leaders had been "an underpinning of the Perry report," a strategic plan for dealing with North Korea that was put together last year by William J. Perry, a former defense secretary.
"The U.S. has long supported and encouraged, both directly and indirectly, a summit between North and South," Ms. Sherman said.
It was unclear how large a direct role the United States had played in the diplomacy leading up to the announcement. But Washington has urged such a breakthrough meeting since 1994, when former President Jimmy Carter helped broker the planned summit meeting that was scrapped because of the death of Kim Il Sung.
In Tokyo, Japanese Foreign Minister Yohei Kono welcomed the announcement from the two Koreas.
"If the talks actually take place, they will be the first such talks in history and have an epoch-making significance," Mr. Kono said in a statement, according to the Reuters news agency.
Mr. Kono added that Japan welcomed and fully supported the South Korean policy. Last week, North Korea and Japan conducted their first diplomatic talks in more than seven years. The talks ended inconclusively, but the two sides agreed to meet again in Japan next month.
North Korea has also recently put out discreet feelers to at least two major Western nations, Britain and Canada.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The South's unification minister, Park Jae Kyu, left, with Park Jie Won, the North's minister of culture, at a Seoul news conference yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; PYONGYANG (NORTH KOREA); ITALY; JAPAN; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; ITALY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%); REFERENDUMS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); KIM JONG IL; KIM IL SUNG (1912-94) KIM JONG IL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



261 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Independent No Longer Alone in Fight Over Drug Costs

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE pharmaceutical industry has a lot of problems in Washington these days, its prices and profits proving an irresistible target for politicians with hard-pressed elderly constituents and an election on the horizon.
But there are few more persistent irritants than Representative Bernard Sanders, the democratic socialist from Vermont who is one of two independents in the House. Mr. Sanders, a gruff-spoken 58-year-old native of Flatbush, with a thatch of white hair and a rumpled 60's-academic style, has twice taken elderly constituents on well-publicized trips to Canada to buy prescription drugs, highlighting the lower prices across the border. 
 He has pushed legislation that he said would allow American pharmacists and distributors to "reimport" prescription drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration from Canada and Mexico and sell them at lower costs.
When a lobbying alliance backed by the pharmaceutical industry set up a Web site to highlight the problems in the Canadian health care system (www.busfromcanada.org), Mr. Sanders quickly countered with a Web site about the inequities of American drug pricing and the legislative proposals to deal with them (bernie.house.gov/bustocanada).
In an interview on Thursday night, Mr. Sanders had the quiet glow of a man who believed that political lightning was finally striking his cause.
"You're dealing here not just with an economic issue or even a health care issue, you're dealing with a very profound moral issue," he said. "Time is long overdue for the Congress to stand up to these people and protect the American people."
Jackie Cottrell, a spokeswoman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, responded, "What's moral is to make sure medicines are available through insurance coverage, but also to make sure that Congressman Sanders and his allies don't stifle our ability to invent medicines that help and heal."
Mr. Sanders has focused on this issue since the 1980's when he was the mayor of Burlington, Vt., and created a task force on health care. Medicare, the health program for the elderly, generally does not cover outpatient prescription drugs, and a third of its elderly beneficiaries have no drug coverage at all. "You can't walk down a main street in Vermont without someone coming up and saying, 'Bernie, you've got to do something about the high cost of prescription drugs,' " he said.
T HESE days, of course, nearly everyone says he wants to do something to help the elderly with drug costs, but Mr. Sanders stands out. He believes not only in new prescription drug coverage for the elderly, and not only in finding a way to end what he considers price discrimination against American consumers, but in a publicly financed national health insurance program -- a Canadian-style system, administered by the states -- for everyone.
He does not seem to worry much about the drug industry's arguments that its prices in the United States are necessary to cover the cost of research. He said he met with some industry lobbyists last year and remembers that they were wearing "fancy shoes." He spoke not with irony but -- to use his word -- with "contempt."
In an age of careful centrism, there is an archaic quality to Mr. Sanders' political speech, not to mention a razor's edge.
"I know what it's like to live in a family without any money," he said, "the economic suffering that is totally unnecessary" among the uninsured, the working poor and many of the elderly. His father, who emigrated from Poland at the age of 17, was a paint salesman. "He worked very hard. He never made a lot of money," Mr. Sanders said in a quick staccato, his eyes focused on the floor. "Lack of money was a constant stress on my parents' relationship and in our household."
Mr. Sanders' only sibling, a brother, became a social worker. Mr. Sanders himself, after a year at Brooklyn College, went to the University of Chicago on a combination of loans, grants and part-time jobs. He was a lackluster student, he wrote in his autobiography, but "learned a lot more from my out-of-class activities" in groups like the Congress of Racial Equality and the Young People's Socialist League.
He moved to Vermont in the late 1960's, working at a mixture of state government, carpentry and writing jobs, and ultimately ended up in politics. Initially, he had little success, but he was elected mayor of Burlington from 1981 to 1989, and in 1990 won Vermont's only House seat, the first independent elected to Congress in 40 years. Mr. Sanders has four children, and his wife, Jane O'Meara Sanders, has been a key adviser in his political career.
While he tends to align with the Democrats, he said he never considered becoming one. Why?
"Both major political parties are heavily influenced by big money," he said. He noted that in nine years in Congress, he has spent one weekend in Washington. He talked scornfully of the journalists and the politicians who spend their time talking to one another, with "no sense of what's going on in the real world."
Mr. Sanders clearly feels he has the drug industry on the defensive. "What I try to do here is not to be an ideologue, but to talk issues," he said. "And when you talk issues, people respond positively." Still, he acknowledges, "I sometimes scratch my head that somebody like me ever made it to the U.S. Congress."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard Sanders says pharmaceutical companies are on the defensive. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2360 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); VERMONT, USA (94%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); AGING (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (85%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (73%); US FDA APPROVALS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); MEDICARE (58%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; SANDERS, BERNARD (REPR) BERNIE SANDERS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



262 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Israelis Struggle to Regain Stalled Peace Momentum

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 9

 BODY:
Late last fall, just when the euphoria that welcomed Ehud Barak's election as prime minister had faded, Syria decided to break a nearly four-year stalemate on peace negotiations with Israel. Mr. Barak was back in business, surfing away from the political and socio-economic headaches that appeared to be about to ground him.
Now, four months later, peace with Syria seems a dying prospect -- although nothing can ever be pronounced officially over in the volatile Middle East peace efforts -- while Mr. Barak's popularity is at a low, according to polls. 
 And Mr. Barak, a former general who was known for his single-mindedness, faces widespread criticism for putting too much energy into Israeli-Syrian peace and not enough into anything else -- not even Palestinian peace, despite his own self-imposed deadlines on that track.
Against this backdrop, Mr. Barak will fly to Washington for a previously unplanned meeting with President Clinton on Tuesday. The announcement of the meeting was made on Saturday night, and today Mr. Barak told his cabinet -- the routine message before such meetings -- that no breakthroughs were to be expected.
It was clear, however, that the Israelis seek to pick up momentum -- not just for the peace initiatives but also for Mr. Barak's sagging profile on the national stage. Politically, it was time for Mr. Barak, who will stop in Egypt on the way to the United States, to jet off on an important mission.
That added impetus to a diplomatic agenda about to speed up anyway: the door to peace with Syria may still be open, but it is closing; the deadline for a framework agreement with the Palestinians is in May; the coming troop withdrawal from Lebanon requires international backing and coordination as soon as possible.
And the Jewish holiday of Passover, which starts on April 19, is a slow week in the middle of a hectic preparatory period for a busy May.
"The calendar dictated the need," said Gadi Baltiansky, Mr. Barak's spokesman. "May is a very important month. It is the target date for an agreement with the Palestinians, and also, we need to get organized on Lebanon. We said we would pull out by July, but maybe even by next month. Certainly two months, three months, no more."
The White House said Mr. Clinton and Mr. Barak would focus their talks on the Israeli-Palestinian final status negotiations and on the withdrawal from Lebanon. But senior Israeli officials said that they expected Mr. Clinton to approach the meeting with Mr. Barak -- and then a subsequent one, nine days later, with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader -- as he did his failed summit meeting in Geneva last month with Hafez el-Assad, the Syrian president.
A senior administration official said in Washington today that the initial proposal for the White House meeting came from the Israelis and that no three-way meeting was contemplated. The two sides have enough differences remaining, the White House concluded, that it would be easier to make progress without both leaders in the same room at the same time.
And a senior Israeli official said: "Clinton wants to do with Barak and Arafat what he did with Assad. He wants to say, 'Take off your mask. Will you, Mr. Barak, agree to A, B, C -- tell me where you stand. Will you, Mr. Arafat, agree to D, E, F?' He wants to force a kind of deadline urgency, to bring it to a bottom line: enough already, is a deal possible or not?"
Mr. Clinton's meeting in Geneva with Mr. Assad revealed an impasse that seemed unbreakable, and the Americans left the next move to Syria. There were faint indications this weekend that Syrian officials may still be interested.
First, Farouk al-Shara, the Syrian foreign minister, said Syria would welcome an Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon, even if it were unilateral. Previously, Syria had voiced opposition to an Israeli troop withdrawal that was not part of an Israeli-Syrian agreement.
Then, Patrick Seale, an English journalist who is Mr. Assad's biographer and confidant, put forth a proposal to settle a crucial difference between the two parties. Speaking on Israel Radio, Mr. Seale said he was acting independently, but some Israeli commentators reacted as if it were a sign of a softening from Mr. Assad himself. Mr. Seale proposed, in effect, that Israel and Syria share the Sea of Galilee area.
Israeli officials said they have heard nothing directly from Syria or through the Americans. But Mr. Barak said today, "We are responsible enough, or sensitive or attentive enough not to close the door completely -- certainly not on our own initiative."
Chemi Shalev, a columnist for the newspaper Maariv, said Mr. Barak, "like every spurned lover," would welcome any advance from Syria. "The last few days have shown Barak just how empty and cruel the world can be without Assad, the essence of his term in office," Mr. Shalev wrote. "Barak would be happy to leave behind him his stumbling coalition and the lame economy and ascend once again on the wings of history."
It was a busy day of fighting in southern Lebanon today as plans for the withdrawal continued apace. The Iran-backed Hezbollah guerrilla fighters wounded two soldiers from the Israeli-backed South Lebanese Army. Attacks from within the Israeli-controlled security zone wounded some Lebanese civilians. The guerrillas fired a mortar shell across the border into Israel, hitting a chicken coop. Israeli warplanes then struck suspected guerrilla targets.
The violence drew a passionate response from Mr. Barak, who used it to defend the plan for unilateral withdrawal of troops from Lebanon, which some fear will spark cross-border violence.
The Palestinian track to peace is no less bumpy. Today, Mr. Arafat dismissed the intensive negotiations that have been going on in Washington as "just chat." He has said repeatedly that Israel is proving intransigent and that its negotiators are not empowered to make big decisions. Israel has said the same of Mr. Arafat's negotiators in the past, although Mr. Barak's spokesman today characterized the talks as "quite positive" and "very advanced."
As to Mr. Barak's perceived need to revive his image as a leader, his spokesman said Mr. Barak does not pay attention to the polls.
"It's not something that should dictate a leader, his behavior or his priorities," Mr. Baltiansky said. "The mood and the atmosphere can go up and down very easily and quickly. Barak is not a magician; he is a statesman. It has been nine months. The government is not falling down. The government has done a lot of things.
"Indeed, if this Syrian thing happens," he continued, "everyone will say that something historic has been achieved. And even if it doesn't, something historic will have happened. For the first time in years, we will know exactly where are the gaps between us and Syria."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ehud Barak, hoping to get peace efforts back on track, is traveling to Washington this week to meet with President Clinton. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); LEBANON (93%); EGYPT (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); LEBANON (93%); EGYPT (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS PEACE PROCESS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); PASSOVER (62%); 

PERSON: SONTAG, DEBORAH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN) EHUD BARAK (94%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



263 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
BLACK, BESSIE GRAHAM HOBSON

 BODY:
BLACK-Bessie Graham Hobson. (Known to her wide circle of friends as "Graham"), lost her six year battle with melanoma and quietly slipped away on April 7, 2000. She was 77 years old. Her family surrounded her at her home at 12305 S.W. 73rd Avenue, in Miami, as her life ended. She was a lady of class. Graham filled her life and those around her with beauty, dignity, grace and love. A stunningly beautiful woman, Graham's optimistic humility inspired whomever her life touched to feel warm and good about themselves. She never disrespected anyone for any reason including race, religion, disability, sex or economic status. Graham also excelled in matters of the intellect. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College on a full academic scholarship with highest honors. She remained a thorough scholar, researcher, editor and reader throughout her life. Graham had a "green thumb." Every plant she touched thrived and in her last days, she lay outside on her patio enveloped by brilliantly colored orchids of her own creation. The late United States Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black, her father-in-law, adored Graham. She is survived by her husband of 53 years, Hugo L. Black, Jr., a veteran Miami trial attorney; their three children and spouses: Elizabeth Black and spouse Peter Goodfellow of Auckland, New Zealand; Margaret Black and spouse John Gallardo of Los Angeles, California, and Hugo Black III and wife Jeannine Crowell Black of Miami. She is also survived by her brothers, Richard R. G. Hobson of Alexandria, Virginia, and Archer Hobson of Staunton, Virginia, and the 11 children of her late brother Edwin Hobson of Rye, New Hampshire. Graham was a founder of Saint Andrews Episcopal Church at the corner of Old Cutler Road and Mitchell Drive in Miami and took much pride in her service on the Landscaping Committee that wove the church and its buldings into a natural and spiritual setting. Graham was a member of the Royal Palm Tennis Club, the patrons of the Museum of Natural Science, the South Florida Orchid Society, Coral Pines Garden Club, Fairchild Tropical Gardens, St. Andrews Book Club, the Tropical Fruit Society and the Villagers. Services will be conducted at St. Andrews Episcopal Church in Miami by Bishop Calvin Schofield and the Rev. Marta Weeks at 4:00 PM on Monday, April 10, 2000, followed by a reception at the St. Andrews Parish House. Services will also be held on Wednesday, April 12, 2000, noon at Immanuel Church On The Hill in Alexandria, Virginia, followed by interment at Ivy Hill Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia. The family suggests contributions in Graham's memory to the St. Andrews Episcopal Church Landscaping Committee or Fairchild Tropical Gardens. For further information contact Stanfill Funeral Homes at 10545 South Dixie Highway in Miami. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (71%); 

COMPANY: HUGO L BLACK JR PA (55%); GREEN THUMB (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN THUMB (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (76%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CANCER (78%); RELIGION (74%); SKIN CANCER (73%); LAWYERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); 

PERSON: BLACK, BESSIE GRAHAM HOBSON BESSIE GRAHAM HOBSON (96%); HUGO BLACK (62%); HUGO L BLACK JR (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



264 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1978 words

HEADLINE: Big News on Little Screens;
Information Is Going Portable in a Hand-Held World

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Bob Egan, a technology research executive, sounds jaded when asked to predict the future of news delivery on cellular phones and hand-held computers. "You are entering this story at the moment of maximum hype," he says.
But then there are moments like this: yesterday, after missing his daughter's high-school softball game because of a business trip, Mr. Egan turned on his Palm Pilot hand-held organizer on a beachfront boardwalk in San Diego and pulled in a report on the team's victory, including favorable mention of his daughter's pitching, from The Woonsocket Call in Rhode Island. 
 From America Online and Microsoft to Reuters and The Associated Press to The New York Times, E. W. Scripps's Knoxville News-Sentinel and Knight Ridder's MercuryCenter.com, news and information organizations are bringing their wares to the diminutive screens of portable electronic devices. The new medium is something between a curiosity and a business, and the media groups involved, still trying to find their financial sea legs on the Internet, are hesitant to predict how these services will pay for themselves.
But there is a widespread consensus that consumers will develop a taste for getting up-to-the-minute data on traffic and movies and sports and even news while they are on the go. "The value here is that people are going to be able to get at personal and relevant information services when they are traveling," Mr. Egan, a vice president of the Gartner Group, said. Traveling, he added, does not have to be business travel -- it could be "travel between the P.T.A. and work or driving the kids around."
The arrival of news on tiny screens -- some so small they can accommodate only 30 words at a time, others able to handle as many as 150 words or so -- has been drawing gradually nearer for a decade, starting with paging devices that transmitted headlines and financial data from organizations like CNN, Bloomberg News and ESPN.
But the popularity of cellular phones and personal organizers like Palm Pilots is soaring just as new technologies arrive to transform them into mini-printing presses.
So large numbers of investors, analysts, telecommunications companies and news providers are becoming convinced that, eventually, people who hunger for news will be happy to get it fresh in bit-sized digital chunks whenever they need it.
Jonathan Sacks, senior vice president and general manager of AOL Interactive Services, said, "You could go out of your mind listening to Elian Gonzalez stories, when all you want to know is why did you see 16 ambulances down the road from your house."
Providing the answer to such a question is the eventual goal of services like those offered by America Online and Access Atlanta, the flagship Web site of the Cox Enterprises unit Cox Interactive Media.
Providing a constantly updated digest of general news is the current practice of USAToday.com, Yahoo, Fox Sports, ABCNews.com, Reuters and The Associated Press. Providing up-to-the-minute news of stock prices, corporate mergers and new technologies is the aim of myriad business and technology news services.
When it comes to hardware and software, the corporate guests at the wireless information party could fill a fair-size hotel ballroom. But, as with the Internet, the entire wireless information industry is casting about for an economic model that works.
Peter Zollman, an analyst for the Advanced Interactive Media Group, sees a bright spot, however, in the fact that these services are so new that relatively few people are accustomed to getting them for free. "There has come to be on the Web an expectation that content is free," he said. "On the wireless devices, that expectation has not been set yet."
One possible revenue stream, he said, could be developed by offering wireless information services "free or at a reduced rate to people who subscribe to the print edition" of a newspaper. Another, Mr. Egan said, could be developed by charging a cell phone user not by the number of minutes connected but by services received.
Making a business out of all of this is the goal not only of these news providers, but the software companies -- AvantGo, i3 Mobile, Aether Systems, InfoSpace.com, Phone.com, Microsoft's MSN Mobile, AnyDevice .com and numerous others -- that serve as digital clipping or delivery services. Their customers are likely to be the manufacturers of the mobile devices.
Then there are the creators of the protocols and digital languages -- like the Wireless Application Protocol, or W.A.P., and Bluetooth, a radiowave-based protocol that allows hand-held devices to talk to others nearby -- that are the ink of this on-the-go, print-with-electrons process. And finally, there are the infrastructure builders, like I.B.M., Nortel and Ericsson, and the device makers -- Palm, Psion, Casio, Sharp, Motorola, Nokia -- and finally telecommunications firms worldwide, from Sprint, AT&T and Bell Atlantic's Verizon Wireless to Vodafone AirTouch and Japan's NTT DoCoMo.
The small screens will simply be a technical and editing challenge, not an impediment, to the growth of wireless news, argues Mitchell Stephens, author of "A History of News" (Harcourt Brace, 1997).
"News has adapted itself to all sorts of formats throughout its history," Mr. Stephens, a professor of journalism and mass communications at New York University, said. "The very first newspapers in Europe had very short, what we would almost call telegraphic news items. When the telegraph came in, news compacted itself to travel over those expensive lines. Then you had news on zippers in Times Square. News has fit in all sorts of places and it will fit here."
Even in the infancy of the mobile news business, there are distinctive cultural accents to the business. In the United States, analysts say, hand-held "personal companions" -- the Palm Pilot has 68 percent of the worldwide market -- have become the early favorite among wireless news delivery devices, picking up where the abbreviated paging devices, with their sports-and-stock-bulletin capacity, left off. In Europe and Japan, users prefer cell phones.
Extending out from its United States base, the Palm is gaining a toehold in the rest of the world. Currently, according to Michael Mace, chief competitive officer for Palm Inc. there are about 6.5 million devices with the Palm operating system worldwide -- the great majority of them Palm Pilots.
His company shipped three million in 1999, he said, double the rate of the previous year. An increase of 40 percent over 1999 sales sales is forecast for 2000 but, Mr. Mace said, the sales in the first quarter of 2000 were more than double the number in the comparable period a year earlier.
But these figures are dwarfed by the sales of cellular phones -- about 275 million worldwide last year. About a billion cellular phones will be in use by 2003, according to several research estimates -- though a much smaller number will be able to tap into the Internet.
Exactly how many users are getting access to the Internet through these devices is still hard to measure, analysts said. But the number of such devices is expanding geometrically: Gartner's Mr. Egan predicts that in North America makers will have shipped 6.5 million Web-browsing cellular phones by the end of this year; while in Europe, the number will 19.5 million and in Asia it will be 13.5 million.
The number of intermediate firms, which provide data to wireless devices, grows weekly. Of those serving the Palm, AvantGo is among the best known, offering services for free to users of the hand-held devices and hoping to earn its keep with a portion of the revenues the media companies earn from the new mobile readers.
Felix Lin, founder and chairman of AvantGo, said the company was founded at about the same time as the first batch of Palm Pilots was shipped in 1996. By developing alliances with media companies like the News Corporation's Fox unit, stock tracking services like Stock Smart, and other sources of information -- providers of maps, ski resort information, restaurant and movie listings, games, horoscopes and the like -- AvantGo has developed an inventory of hundreds of "channels" that mobile device owners can receive when they log in, either through synchronization devices that reach the Internet through desktop computers, or through wireless antennas.
In Europe and Japan, cellular telephones became popular far earlier than in the United States. The development of the Wireless Application Protocol, simplifying the delivery of news to these devices, coupled with the pervasiveness of cellular phones, have made these devices the instrument of choice to receive news on the go, experts said.
But most existing phones can only receive short messages. Scott Woefel, general manager and editor in chief of CNN.com, said 41 million cellular phone users could get news, sports and financial data from CNN, but he did not know what fraction of this group actually subscribed to CNN's service.
Nevertheless, the network has a full-time staff dedicated to reformatting its news reports for pagers and cellular phones, 24 hours a day. Separately, the company, like many other news organizations, has a deal with AvantGo, through which a portion of its Web site's content can be transferred to hand-held devices running on the Palm Pilot operating system, or its rivals, Microsoft's Windows CE, used in Casio's mobile devices, and Symbian's EPOC, used in Psion devices.
"It really is part of our bigger strategy," Mr. Woefel said. Delivery of CNN news, he said, should come in "three primary ways -- TV in the home, a computer in the office, and one of these hand-held devices everywhere else."
"We don't want to align ourselves too closely with one technology or one company," he added.
Reuters, too, is pushing for predominance in mobile information, both through the news and financial data it supplies to Web sites and through investments in companies like Phone.com, Yahoo and Aether, according to Jonathan Baile, managing director of Reuters Wireless Services.
David Wachtel, publisher of Bloomberg Media, said the type of news delivered would be determined in part by the device involved. "The idea that people are going to read their entire newspaper over the phone is wrong," he said. "But quick bits of information in a hurry, yes."
The editing of news for hand-held devices is becoming a necessary skill at news Web sites. Several providers, like Space.com, CNet's News .com, The New York Times on the Web and the Web sites and many Knight Ridder newspapers offer a bouquet of 8 to 20 headlines and summaries, sometimes grouped under categories like sports and entertainment. When a user clicks on a headline, a full story or commentary becomes available.
Other news providers, like The Financial Times's site, ft.com, and USAToday.com offer streamlined, 250- or 300-word articles but cover a broader range of subjects. News .com, like CNNfn and ESPN, provide updates frequently; the articles can be brief or as long as 800 words.
In general, financial and sports offerings, from sites like The Wall Street Journal's wsj.com and espn .com, are much more likely to be kept current. Gannett's USAToday .com is one of several general news providers that offer updates on most topics throughout the day. The New York Times offering of front page articles on AvantGo, which are not updated, is the service's most requested channel, AvantGo executives say.
But it is often the most prosaic information that is the most popular. Through AvantGo, the Web site of The Knoxville News Sentinel offers detailed traffic reports, and Access Atlanta offers weather bulletins that can be urgent during tornado season. But Jonathan Bell, Knoxville's senior Web designer, said, "The thing people are asking us for are movie times."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the delivery of news and other information to hand-held devices referred imprecisely to models made by Palm Inc. While some of them can retrieve information wirelessly, either on their own or with special attachments, the Palm Pilot, an early model in the Palm product line, cannot. The device described in the first two paragraphs of the article, with which a man retrieved news of his daughter's softball game, was a Palm V with a special attachment, not a Palm Pilot.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Visors, Palm Pilots and cellular telephones are at the receiving end of a flood of news, weather, sports and movie times.; Felix Lin founded AvantGo when the Palm Pilot was introduced, aiming to offer information for users of the devices. (Photographs by Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "The News at Hand"
The business of putting information from news sources of all kinds onto hand-held devices, like the Palm Pilot and cellular phones with screens, has spawned companies that reformat the information, typically from Web versions.
 
Chart lists the hand-held devices and cell phones that are sold, the information providers, and the device companies. (pg. C21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (57%); PALM INC (57%); KNOXVILLE NEWS-SENTINEL CO (56%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (77%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FINANCES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; PERSONAL ORGANIZERS HANDHELD COMPUTERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); SPORTS (76%); SOFTBALL (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (58%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (57%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY ANN LIVERMORE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000



265 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 6143 words

HEADLINE: The Well-Marked Roads to Homicidal Rage

SERIES: RAMPAGE KILLERS: Second of four articles -- Warning Signs.

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN and WILLIAM GLABERSON; Reporting for this series was by Fox Butterfield, Ford Fessenden, William Glaberson and Laurie Goodstein, with research assistance from Anthony Zirilli and other members of the news research staff of The New York Times.

 BODY:
Shots explode at a school in Oregon, a brokerage office in Atlanta, or a church in Fort Worth, and the nation is witness to another sudden, seemingly random violent rampage. Before the ambulances leave, the news crews arrive. The killers' neighbors, friends or families submit to interviews, and inevitably, they say something like this: "He just snapped."
But the killers do not just snap. An examination by The New York Times of 100 rampage murders found that most of the killers spiraled down a long slow slide, mentally and emotionally. Most of them left a road map of red flags, spending months plotting their attacks and accumulating weapons, talking openly of their plans for bloodshed. Many showed signs of serious mental health problems. 
 But in case after case, the Times review found, the warning signs were missed: by a tattered mental health care system; by families unable to face the evidence of serious mental turmoil in their children or siblings; by employers, teachers and principals who failed to take the threats seriously; by the police who, when alerted to the danger by frightened relatives, neighbors or friends, were incapable of intervening before the violence erupted.
James Davis, whose co-workers had nicknamed him Psycho, warned his colleagues at a tool warehouse in Asheville, N.C., "If they ever decide to fire me, I'll take two or three of them with me." His employers did fire him, and feared he would respond with violence, but despite his threats, they failed to protect his co-workers when Mr. Davis returned to take his revenge.
In 34 of the 100 cases, however, families or friends of the killers desperately did try to find help for a person they feared was a ticking time bomb, but were rebuffed by the police, school administrators or mental health workers.
Sylvia Seegrist caromed in and out of mental institutions 12 times in 10 years, while her parents searched for a residential program where she could stay in treatment. They knew she was dangerous. She had stabbed a psychologist and tried to strangle her mother, and had hidden a gun in her apartment. But each time, she was released from the hospital when she seemed to improve.
"We were always fearful that maybe some tragedy would happen," said Ruth S. Seegrist, Sylvia's mother. "She threatened it: 'Someday before I kill myself, I'll bring some people down with me.' " Sylvia opened fire in a suburban Philadelphia shopping mall in 1985, killing three people and wounding seven.
In response to the recent spate of rampage-style mass shootings in schools, workplaces, stores and other public places, The New York Times re-examined 100 such violent incidents that occurred in the United States over the last 50 years. The Times gathered extensive information on all 100, and looked closely at more than 25 of the cases, a surprising number of which attracted little but local attention. The examination included reviews of court cases, news coverage and mental health records, and interviews with families and friends, psychologists and victims, in an effort to glean what the people closest to each tragedy had learned. In some cases, reporters questioned the killers themselves.
Based on this information, The Times found that in 63 of the 100 cases (which involved 102 killers), the killers made general threats of violence to others in advance. Fifty-five of the 100 cases involved killers who regularly expressed explosive anger or frustration, and 35 killers had a history of violent behavior and assaults. They were so noticeably unstable that even in their very separate circles they had been awarded similar nicknames: "Crazy Pat," "Crazy John," "Crazy Joe."
And in 40 cases, family members and others said they noticed a sudden change in behavior in the period before the rampage.
"The more you find out about each of these cases, the more it makes sense," said Prof. Dewey G. Cornell, a clinical psychologist at the University of Virginia and director of the Virginia Youth Violence Project, which studies school safety and violence prevention. "This notion that someone just snaps is based on ignorance and denial," Professor Cornell said. "People don't just snap. Pressures build up."
Many psychologists caution that it is impossible to predict violent behavior, and that most people who threaten violence never follow through. Often, it is only in retrospect that each killer's life appears to be a coherent chilling narrative foretelling obvious danger. Looking back, it is easy to marvel, how could the people who knew the murderer have failed to see it coming? In particular, how could so many psychiatric workers, and even the police, have missed the warning signs?
In many cases, there was no single person in the potential killer's life to put together the lethal clues. Colleagues, friends, family members, mental health professionals, teachers and the police may have independently sensed something disturbing, but they did not communicate with one another. Frightened neighbors or co-workers decided it was safest to keep their distance. Friends laughed off homicidal talk. Parents did not know where to turn, or just hoped the irrational fury was merely a phase.
"It's like looking at the night sky," said Robert Granacher Jr., a psychiatrist in Lexington, Ky., who has examined the records of several rampage murderers. "If you only see one or two stars, you may not see the whole constellation. It's the same with these fragmentary bits of information; no one has the whole picture."
In the end, the review of these cases suggests that if people understood more about mental illness and connected the clues, many of these types of rampage killings could be prevented.
 
 "It's going to be tomorrow."
Jamie Rouse to a friend
IN rural Giles County, Tenn., on Nov. 15, 1995 -- before school shootings regularly made headlines -- a slight 17-year-old strode down the hall of Richland School with his black .22 Remington Viper.
His name was Jamie Rouse, and as always, he was dressed in black. He walked up to two female teachers who were chatting in the hall, and without a word shot each of them in the head. One teacher was gravely wounded, the other died. Then Jamie Rouse smiled and aimed for the school's football coach. But a student named Diane Collins happened to cross his path. A bullet tore through her throat. She was 16 when she died that day.
Jamie Rouse had sent distress signals for years to the adults in his life. More startling, the police say he had told as many as five teenage friends exactly how he planned to bring his rifle to school and begin killing. None of them had called anyone for help. In fact, the night before, word of the planned massacre was passed like macabre gossip along a chain of students, from Jamie, to his close friend Stephen Abbott, to a teenager that Mr. Abbott worked with at the gas station, Billy Rogers.
"He told me something was going to happen at school the next day, that I was going to lose a couple of friends," Mr. Rogers later testified. "Steve told me if there was a God he better make it snow tonight so we ain't got school tomorrow."
The rampage killers in the study, young and old, often talked for months in advance about their murderous plans. And in 54 of the 100 cases, killers like Jamie Rouse provided explicit descriptions of who, where or when they intended to kill.
Charles Whitman, the infamous sniper who shot 45 people, killing 14, from atop the tower on the campus of the University of Texas at Austin in 1966, had told a college psychiatrist four months before the attack that he had been "thinking about going up on the tower with a deer rifle and start shooting people."
Michael Carneal, a high school freshman in Paducah, Ky., told schoolmates that "it would be cool" to shoot into a student prayer group. He did as he had promised, killing three people and injuring five in 1997.
Andrew Wurst, 14, showed a group of friends a gun hidden in his father's dresser drawer and told them he planned to use nine shells to kill nine people he hated, and then kill himself. In 1998, he started shooting at his eighth-grade prom, killing a popular teacher and injuring three other people.
In case after case, friends, family members and others who heard the threats and did not take action later said they did not act because it seemed unfathomable that a human being would carry through with such threats. Others said they had heard the killer boast of violence so often that, like the villagers hardened to the boy who cried wolf, they just did not take it seriously.
In testimony, Stephen Ray, one of Jamie Rouse's closest friends, said that it had sounded ridiculous when Mr. Rouse "might have" said something about shooting someone the day before the killings, when Mr. Rouse was fuming over a fender-bender with a schoolmate's car.
Mr. Ray, now 21 and a college student in Knoxville, trembled in an interview in his dormitory this winter when he said it was hard to tell at the time that Jamie Rouse's blustery threats were real. Even when Mr. Rouse showed up in the morning with a rifle and a box of bullets, Mr. Ray said, he did not believe Jamie would really do it.
"It wasn't a joke," Mr. Ray said in a tone of amazement. "It wasn't a high school prank. It was something real."
Tennessee prosecutors said they were frustrated that legal rules barred them from charging Mr. Ray with a crime because he did nothing active to foster the plan. They did prosecute the teenager who drove Mr. Rouse to school that morning.
Failing to act in the face of warning signs, the prosecutors said, was not a crime. In retrospect, there were many people guilty of that.
In ninth grade, Jamie had scratched an inverted cross on his forehead, a symbol other students had told him was a sign of Satan worship. Many people, including teachers, had noticed the mark, which lasted a few weeks, and talked about it among themselves.
At home during his junior year, Jamie held his brother Jeremy at gunpoint and threatened to kill him. As punishment, Jamie's parents took away his gun.
As his senior year began, he submitted his entry for the yearbook: "I, Satan, James Rouse, leave my bad memories here to my two brothers." By that time, according to testimony at his trial, Jamie Rouse was working nights, taking Max Alert to stay awake and Sominex to get to sleep, and listening to heavy metal music cranked very loud because it drowned out the voices in his head that he later told psychiatrists he had been hearing at the time.
The spring before the shootings Mr. Rouse got into a violent fight with two other boys at school. But when teachers broke it up, "Jamie just would not calm down," recalled Ronald W. Shirey Jr., the football coach that Jamie had missed shooting, in an interview in his living room a few miles from the school. "He was just totally out of control, and saying, 'I will kill you,' " Mr. Shirey said.
The school called the police after that fight. Mr. Rouse faced juvenile charges and was suspended for three days.
But time passed. His mother later said it had not occurred to her to get counseling for him. And when hunting season started, Jamie's parents gave him his rifle back.
Long after the crime, Mr. Shirey said, when government investigators sought to study ways to prevent school shootings, they asked him to circulate a survey among the teachers at Richland School, which has students from kindergarten through 12th grade, to gather information about Jamie Rouse. No survey came back with more than a paragraph, he said.
"You can't find a teacher up there that was close to Jamie Rouse since elementary school," Mr. Shirey said. "Nobody knew enough about him to say anything."
The adults noticed Jamie Rouse but did not know him, and the teenagers who knew him did not tell.
 
"I genuinely thought the public would be pleased because I thought all the public could see this and know and understand my good-intentions."
Sylvia Seegrist, in a letter to a reporter from prison, Jan. 4, 2000
SHE was dressed in the green Army fatigues and knit cap she wore all four seasons of the year as she drove into the parking lot of the Springfield Mall in suburban Philadelphia. She leaped out of her car firing a Ruger semiautomatic rifle, and continued spraying bullets as she ran through the mall, killing three people and injuring seven, all strangers. Among the dead was a 2-year-old boy whose family had been shopping for a church charity fashion show.
Sylvia Seegrist was 25 the day of her murder spree in 1985. Her crime was the culmination of 10 years of mounting psychosis, crippling delusions and violent assaults on people who tried to help her.
Her mother, in a recent interview in her apartment a few miles from the site of Ms. Seegrist's rampage, remembered the "feelings of hopelessness, helplessness, despair, of incredible sadness" as she and her husband watched their only daughter overtaken by schizophrenia.
They also feared her. "I'll take you out," Mrs. Seegrist recalls her daughter threatening.
The Times' study found that many of the rampage killers, including Sylvia Seegrist, suffered from severe psychosis, were known by people in their circles as being noticeably ill and needing help, and received insufficient or inconsistent treatment from a mental health system that seemed incapable of helping these especially intractable patients.
Only a small percentage of mentally ill people are violent, and many advocates bristle at any link between mental illness and violence out of concern that it will further stigmatize an already mistreated population.
However, the Times investigation of this particular style of violence -- public rampage killings -- turned up an extremely high association between violence and mental illness. Forty-seven of the killers had a history of mental health problems before they killed; 20 had been hospitalized for psychiatric problems; 42 had been seen by mental health professionals.
Psychiatric drugs had been prescribed at some point before the rampages to 24 of the killers, and 14 of those people were not taking their prescribed drugs when they killed. Diagnoses of mental illness are often difficult to pin down, so The Times tabulated behavior: 23 killers showed signs of serious depression before the killings, and 49 expressed paranoid ideas.
Some of the killers who survived their rampages have made it clear they preferred to be thought of as criminal rather than mentally ill. Back in 1966, Robert Benjamin Smith, an 18-year-old high school senior in Mesa, Ariz., said he believed he was God when he herded five women and two children into the back room of a beauty school, forced them to lie down in a circle and methodically shot each person in the head, killing five of them.
In a letter Mr. Smith sent to a Times reporter from prison in January, he brushed off questions about illness and wrote, "Lessons? The sole thing I have learned worth the telling is the ironclad necessity of retaining control over one's essential bodily fluids." He blamed "sexual self-stimulation" for his crime and noted that he had tried to amputate his penis while in prison using the pull-tab from a can of diet soda.
"The more ill they are, the less sensibility there is" in the violent attack itself, said Anthony G. Hempel, chief forensic psychiatrist at the Vernon campus of North Texas State Hospital. Dr. Hempel, who has studied mass murderers, said that in contrast to the killers who "go postal," gunning for their bosses, "when someone goes and kills strangers or they kill children, the odds of them being mentally ill are higher."
Sylvia Seegrist was first hospitalized at 16, and schizophrenia was diagnosed. Each of the dozen times she was discharged, psychiatrists deemed that she no longer posed a threat to herself or others.
No one said she was getting better, though. At the local health club Ms. Seegrist was seen taking steam baths in her camouflage clothing. At the library, she spouted a tangle of theories about nuclear weapons, energy shortages and famine. Between her daughter's hospitalizations, Mrs. Seegrist found a gun in Sylvia's apartment, she said. Ms. Seegrist told her mother she planned to use it to kill her parents and then herself.
Mrs. Seegrist said the family could not afford private rehabilitation programs, and their insurance covered only short-term hospitalization.
Sylvia Seegrist, now 39, is serving a life sentence at a prison in Pennsylvania. She declined an interview, instead writing two letters to The Times, a weave of lucid fragments and unintelligible passages about benzene and Styrofoam. On the back of an envelope, she writes that her killings were a form of public service.
She also seems to assert that she had to kill to ensure she would be imprisoned instead of being sent yet again to a state mental hospital.
"Sure had all kinds of theories in my head," she wrote, "expressed them at political meetings, just doll, understand, please 10 yrs. of beat-up, orphan in state hospitals that are 300 % worse than even Sing-Sing prison. All the throwaways retarded smearing feces on themselves, when I read research materials at Ivy league colleges, and watched nothing but CNN and C-Span at home."
She said she had no choice. "It had to be 'a serious crime' or I'd get the state hospital i.e. Nazi camp."
 
" I was trying to save myself and my family."
Jeffrey Wade Wallace in a prison interview, Feb. 1, 2000
ROXIE M. WALLACE knew something was wrong when her grown son Jeffrey visited her, and padlocked his room. He sometimes slept with a knife by his bed. He was growing increasingly paranoid, she realized. He would talk incessantly about evil forces. Most disturbing, she said in interviews and letters, her son sometimes growled "like a small dog or a wolf."
Mr. Wallace offers a glimpse into how difficult it can be to shake someone out of a delusional universe, even when friends and relatives notice and want to do something about it. Mr. Wallace, like other rampage killers, was convinced he was defending himself against an intricate conspiracy. Of the 100 cases in the study, 49 involved killers who had shown extreme, irrational suspicion and mistrust. In their paranoia, they think they must defend themselves against threats that other people do not see.
Even now, incarcerated in an isolated Florida prison, Mr. Wallace, 38, insists that he had no choice but to open fire in 1997 at a Key West bar where he once worked, killing one person and injuring three others.
In a long prison interview, Mr. Wallace was unable to deviate from his convoluted theory that the bar was the center of an organized-crime drug and prostitution ring with ties -- he was sure -- to Satanism, President Clinton and Garrison Keillor, host of the public radio program "Prairie Home Companion."
Mr. Wallace's lawyers argued unsuccessfully that he was insane, but Mr. Wallace insists his actions were perfectly rational.
"The best example I can give," Mr. Wallace said, "is you're in your house and somebody breaks in and you have to defend yourself and you end up killing somebody. It's terrible but what else can you do?"
From her home in Tennessee, Mrs. Wallace said she had tried for years to maneuver her son toward help when he did not want it. "I was afraid he was either going to kill himself or he was going to 'fight back' to save himself like a caged animal," she said.
Many rampage killers are extremely difficult to treat, say psychiatrists who have interviewed them. They may deny their illness and resist medication and treatment, and are often shrewd about masking symptoms to avoid being hospitalized involuntarily.
Even those who do receive psychiatric treatment do not always get the help they need.
Joseph Brooks Jr. was a policeman's son from Detroit and one of the few black students to win entrance to both a prestigious local preparatory school and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Friends in the fraternity house where Mr. Brooks lived recall no hint of anger or illness, only that Mr. Brooks was absurdly meticulous about his chores, and studied so compulsively that they nicknamed him Books. But in his third year at M.I.T., he tried to commit suicide, was hospitalized for obsessive-compulsive disorder, and later received a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia.
Back in Detroit, living alone, Mr. Brooks, 28, sought treatment with Dr. Reuven Bar-Levav, a well-known local psychiatrist who ran group therapy sessions in Southfield attended by a close-knit clientele of upper-middle-class patients coping with depression or anxiety disorders -- nothing as severe as paranoid schizophrenia. Mr. Brooks joined the group sessions, but refused to take the medication he had been prescribed, telling friends that the drugs made him tremble, gain weight and lose concentration.
Ronald Rissman, a fellow patient in the therapy group Mr. Brooks joined, said in an interview, "It was obvious he was not in touch with reality. He would laugh inappropriately. Within a matter of two or three group sessions, it became apparent to most of the senior patients that he did not belong there, that he should have been institutionalized."
Mr. Rissman said he and several other patients and therapists in the group practice repeatedly went to Dr. Bar-Levav with their concerns about Mr. Brooks. And in one group session -- with Mr. Brooks in the room -- a patient named Mary Gregg told the group she was afraid of Mr. Brooks, Mr. Rissman recalled.
After about eight group sessions, Dr. Bar-Levav finally terminated Mr. Brooks's treatment and referred him to other therapists.
Eight months later, on June 11 last year, Mr. Brooks returned to the psychiatrist's office and killed Dr. Bar-Levav. Mr. Brooks then pivoted and fired into the therapy group he had once attended, killing Mrs. Gregg and wounding four others, including Mr. Rissman, who leapt up to close the door. Mr. Brooks then turned the gun on himself.
Dr. Bar-Levav had been given some warning: while in treatment, Mr. Brooks had handed a gun over to another therapist in the practice and confessed he had come close to killing his girlfriend's mother and committing suicide. And just before the killings, Mr. Brooks sent Dr. Bar-Levav a 52-page manuscript critiquing the therapy he had received from him. The critique contained obsessive, paranoid passages about a "German American woman" humiliating him in his therapy group, and hints of menace. The local police emphasized in interviews with The Times that Dr. Bar-Levav should have alerted them.
"We would have taken that weapon away from him," said Joseph Thomas, the chief of police in Southfield, Mich. But even had the police confiscated the gun, the killing would not have been prevented. Mr. Brooks easily obtained a second permit and a second gun -- an expensive limited-edition combat-style handgun, which he used to kill Dr. Bar-Levav.
The psychiatrist's daughter, Dr. Leora Bar-Levav, a therapist herself who worked with her father and is now carrying on his practice, rejected with a pained wince the suggestion of negligence. In a conversation in the practice's new offices in Southfield, she said the problem was instead a permissive society and a narcissistic patient who had rejected treatment.
"You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink it," she said. "Denial is very potent."
 
"You can have it because I probably wouldn't need it much longer."
James Floyd Davis on giving his niece a video game a few days before his workplace rampage
A MAN storms a warehouse where he was recently fired, leaving a trail of shell casings, three dead workers and four more wounded. The news story the next day begins, "A disgruntled former employee went on a shooting rampage."
In the turmoil that follows a rampage shooting by a killer like James Davis in Asheville, N.C., there is usually a scramble to pinpoint the cause. And in a world of rapid news cycles, the answers come quickly.
Mr. Davis was the "disgruntled employee." In news coverage last year, Dung Trinh was described as so bereaved at the death of his mother that in September he shot at nurses in a hospital in Anaheim, Calif., where she had once been treated. Sometimes the reason is reported to be a broken marriage, a spurned romance or financial misfortune. Mark O. Barton, a rampage killer in Atlanta, was reported to have singled out day traders because he had suffered huge losses in the market.
These are the kinds of events that often result in the observation, "He just snapped."
But the incident that is often simplistically cited as the cause -- a firing, a divorce, an eviction -- is on closer examination just the final provocation to a troubled, angry person who has already left numerous warning markers, often available for many to see.
When he opened fire in the day-trading office, Mr. Barton already had problems deeper than his recent stock losses. Eight hours earlier, he had killed his second wife and his children, and he was still the prime suspect in the deaths six years earlier of his first wife and her mother.
Colin Ferguson, who opened fire on rush-hour commuters on the Long Island Rail Road, had displayed such menacing behavior that he received an eviction notice, which further fueled his fury.
Most of the workplace shooters had been fired or disciplined precisely because they were already threatening violence, behaving bizarrely or getting in fights. Of the 81 adult murderers The Times looked at, 49 were unemployed.
Mr. Davis was no mild-mannered worker who just mysteriously snapped, according to court records and interviews.
He repeatedly picked fights at the tool warehouse where he worked in Asheville, and had often told colleagues that if he were ever fired, he would return to kill his bosses. He had seen combat in Vietnam and been hospitalized with schizophrenia after the war. He lived alone, and co-workers knew he owned a .44 Magnum with a scope and had practiced firing it in his basement.
One Wednesday in May 1995, he got into another fight at work, his last.
That weekend, his family noticed him acting strangely. For example, Mr. Davis, an unemotional recluse, told his sister he loved her. And though James had never given anything to anybody, his brother, William, later said, James had wanted to give his niece a chess set and video game the weekend before. His siblings tried to persuade him to go to a hospital for psychiatric help, but he refused.
That Monday, James Davis was fired. His bosses were so anxious about his reaction that they agreed to break the news in a room where they could use a table to deflect an attack. Some employees planned escape routes when they heard of Mr. Davis's firing.
Just after midnight on Wednesday, William Davis called the police from his house 100 miles away to tell them that James had left home in a nervous frenzy and left all his personal belongings with their mother.
"I don't see why you got to wait till he kills himself or somebody," William Davis told the police, according to a transcript of his telephone call. "If you send a patrol car out to that plant, he's probably sitting there. Or notify them." William Davis told the police, "I don't know for sure, but I know and believe by the warning signs he gave me he's going to die." The Asheville police did drive by James Davis's house, but said that when they saw there was no vehicle in the driveway, there was nothing else they could do.
William Davis testified that he got in his car around 2 a.m. and drove to what he thought was his brother's workplace. But because he had not lived in Asheville for many years, he went to the wrong plant. The gate was shut, so he drove back to his mother's house to sleep.
James Davis never came home. That morning, on Wednesday, May 17, he stormed the Union Butterfield plant. Two of the victims were the bosses who fired him.
"I live for the rest of my life knowing that if someone had listened to me, no one would have died," William Davis said in an interview. "I could have stopped it if someone would have listened."
Last spring, with Mr. Davis already on death row, a jury considered a civil suit claiming that his employers had failed to protect the other employees from a man they knew to be violent. A lawyer for the company argued there was no way anyone could foresee such an attack.
A lawyer for the victims said, "This case is a human tragedy because this could have been prevented."
The jury agreed, awarding the families of two of the victims $7.9 million. An appeal has been filed.
 
"I am a horrible son. I wish I had been aborted. I destroy everything I touch. I can't eat. I can't sleep. I didn't deserve them. They were wonderful people. It's not their fault or the fault of any person, organization, or television show. My head just doesn't work right. God damn these VOICES inside my head."
From the note Kip Kinkel left on the coffee table in his house after killing his parents
EVEN the cases that drew wide attention offer fresh insights when re-examined in the context of the Times review.
One spring day, Kipland P. Kinkel, a freckle-faced boy with a history of behavior problems in school, disrupted his ninth-grade literature class by abruptly yelling out loud, "God damn this voice inside my head!"
His teacher took immediate action. He wrote up a disciplinary note. "In the future," it asked, "what could you do differently to prevent this problem?"
Kip dutifully filled out the answer: "Not to say 'Damn.' "
The note was signed by the teacher. Kip took it home to his mother, and she signed it too.
Nobody paid attention to the part about the voice inside Kip's head.
One month later, on May 20, 1998, Kip was suspended from school for buying a stolen gun and stashing it in his locker. That afternoon, back at home in a wooded neighborhood called Shangri La, Kip Kinkel, 15, shot his father and then his mother.
The next morning he drove to his school in Springfield, Ore., and shot 24 people in the cafeteria, killing two students.
Sometimes even concerned parents, like the Kinkels, or other caring adults, find the specter of serious mental or emotional problems in a child so disturbing that they lapse into denial, the study found over and over.
The youngsters themselves often unwittingly assist in the denial by being reluctant to tell someone about hearing voices or having bizarre thoughts, in fear of being labeled mentally ill. Complicating the picture is the fact that in adolescents like Kip, the symptoms are most likely just emerging, psychiatric experts say.
Kip Kinkel's parents, while perhaps unwilling to face the serious implications of his outburst in class, had not been blind to his problems, according to interviews and court records. They were both schoolteachers, and such behavior would have been hard to ignore. Starting at age 6, when Kip hit a boy twice his age with a piece of metal bar, he was susceptible to uncontrollable rages.
As a teenager, like many of the killers in the study, he showed an inordinate fascination with weapons. He collected knives, secretly built explosives and boasted to friends that he wanted to be the next Unabomber. He detonated explosives at a local quarry and was caught by the police throwing rocks at cars off a highway overpass, a prank that some psychologists say is an early indication of a potential for violent tendencies.
His mother took him to a therapist. Kip showed symptoms, the therapist noted, of "major depressive disorder," and was prescribed Prozac.
But William Kinkel, Kip's father, did not approve of therapy, and never attended the sessions, Mark Sabitt, Kip's defense lawyer, said in an interview. Mr. Sabitt said that Mr. Kinkel was "a very proud individual and aware of his image in the community. He was very skeptical of counseling in general and closed to the notion of someone in his family needing treatment, or even worse, being mentally ill. It just didn't fit with the image he had of his kids and what he hoped they would be."
After nine therapy sessions and three months of summer vacation on Prozac, Kip's behavior improved, so his parents discontinued the therapy and the medication. Kip's father bought him the Glock semiautomatic pistol his son had been pestering him for.
At Kip's sentencing hearing, the defense presented a family tree showing severe mental illness, including schizophrenia, affecting three generations on both maternal and paternal sides.
When Kip's victims addressed the judge, some said he was faking insanity. Others said that even if insane, he should be held responsible for ripping apart their lives.
"I don't care if you're sick, if you're insane, if you're crazy," said Jacob Ryker, one of the students who finally tackled Kip, despite gunshot wounds in his own chest and arm. "I don't care. I think prison, a lifetime in prison is too good for you. If a dog was to go insane and if a dog got rabid and it bit someone, you destroy it. So I stand here and I ask, why haven't you been destroyed? I question myself for not pulling the trigger."
 
"I got to go. I'm loading magazines."
Sgt. William Kreutzer Jr. in his last telephone call to a squadmate
AN agitated Sgt. William Kreutzer Jr. telephoned a friend in his squad at Fort Bragg, N.C. He said the shooting would begin the next morning at daybreak, just when 1,300 soldiers were on a field stretching before their morning run.
"He said he was going to 'mow them down,' " said his friend, Specialist Burl F. Mays.
True, Sergeant Kreutzer was an odd loner who talked about killing so often that the men in his company had nicknamed him Crazy Kreutzer and Silence of the Lambs. But when Specialist Mays arrived early the next morning and saw Sergent Kreutzer was not in, he feared that this time it was no idle threat. He told his superiors just before 5 a.m. and was asked to check Sergeant Kreutzer's room.
He found that the bed had not been slept in. On the desk he found a draft of Sergeant Kreutzer's will.
Specialist Mays later testified that when he then tried to alarm superiors, the first sergeant dismissed his concerns, saying something like, "Kreutzer is a pussy, he wouldn't do anything like this."
The case of Sergeant Kreutzer, told in court records and interviews, illustrates an altogether different common case: the depressed and angry misfit provoked by the people around him.
Park Elliott Dietz, a psychiatrist and expert on mass killers, said people who become mass murderers are often "handled in a provocative, ineffective way." Their outrageous fantasies of violence draw public condemnation or ridicule. Humiliation, Dr. Dietz said, often precedes rampage killing.
Sergeant Kreutzer, a gawky perfectionist, had long been the object of ridicule in his squad at Fort Bragg. When his unit was sent to the Sinai, other soldiers tied his shoelaces together while he slept. They filled his boots with sand. Sergeant Kreutzer, 26, had always wanted to be a soldier, but he lagged behind on company runs and sometimes misplaced equipment. He cried when criticized. When he repeatedly threatened to kill other soldiers, they took it as a joke.
Fifteen months before his final ambush, when Sergeant Kreutzer had an outburst in which he threatened to kill soldiers, and it became common knowledge, his superiors sent him to a military social worker.
"He told me that he had specific plans to kill the people in his squad," the counselor, Darren Fong, told military investigators, the court-martial documents show. But when he was returned to full duty, Sergeant Kreutzer was not referred to Army psychiatrists. He was barred from access to weapons for two weeks.
The morning of Oct. 27, 1995, Sergeant Kreutzer hid in the woods and fired onto a field of American soldiers who thought they were at peace. He wounded 18 of them, and killed Maj. Stephen Mark Badger, an intelligence officer and a father and stepfather of eight children.
Sergeant Kreutzer kept firing until he was tackled from behind by two comrades.
Minutes later, he spoke to a military police officer, Bruce W. Hamrick.
"He said he kept warning people that he was going to kill somebody," Mr. Hamrick testified, "but that nobody would listen."
 
Rampage Killers
 
SUNDAY -- A portrait of the nation's rampage killers over 50 years.
TODAY -- How relatives, colleagues and officials overlook the warning signs.
TUESDAY -- The difficulty of keeping guns out of the hands of the seriously mentally ill.
WEDNESDAY -- One father's efforts to understand his son's murder by a rampage killer.
 
Related articles, an interactive map and a discussion forum are available at The New York Times on the Web: http://www.nytimes.com
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SYLVIA SEEGRIST. (United Press International)(pg. A1); A wounded student on the way to an ambulance after Kip Kinkel opened fire at his high school in Springfield, Ore., on May 21, 1998, injuring 22 people and killing two students. (Associated Press); (Associated Press); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. A14); (Reuters); (Fayetteville Observer-Times, via Associated Press); (Asheville Citizen-Times)(pg. A15)
 
Chart: "Rampage Killers in 100 Cases"
Figures are the number of cases in which the killers had these characteristics.
 
Mental Health Problems Were Prominent
47%: History of mental health problems
 
23%: Symptoms of depression
 
42%: Previously seen by mental health professional
 
20%: Previous psychiatric hospitalization
 
24%: Psychiatric drugs prescribed
 
26%: Suicide attempt or fixation
 
14%: Off prescribed psychiatric drugs at time of crime
 
49%: Paranoid talk
 
There Were Frequent Warning Signs
 
63%: Made general or specific threat
 
40%: Behavior changed before killing
 
35%: History of violent behavior
 
25%: Displayed weapons in public
 
But Cultural Influences Seemed Small
 
11%: Liked violent TV
 
6%: Played violent video games
 
4%: Interest in occult or Satanism
 
(To compile this data, The New York Times reviewed newspaper reports, court records and psychiatric reports, and interviewed the police, prosecutors, defense attorneys, victims, families, friends, and when possible, the killers themselves.)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WITNESSES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); MURDER (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (74%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (74%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: SYLVIA SEEGRIST (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



266 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 12; Column 1; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Most Likely to Feel Healthy: Educated Rural People

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 10

 BODY:
City dwellers get sick more often than their rural counterparts.
Well-educated adults are healthier than those without high school diplomas. 
 And people living in poverty are sick most often.
Those trends were drawn from a five-year study released last week by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
The government asked adults how many days they had been unhealthy in the prior month and compiled results from 1993 to 1997. Those numbers were compared with factors like population, income levels and unemployment rates.
In some pockets of extremely high unemployment, residents reported feeling unhealthy 20 days a month.
"People that say they are unable to work have extremely high levels of unhealthy days," said David Moriarty, spokesman for the C.D.C.'s National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.
"We really don't know if people are not feeling well because they are unemployed, or they're without a job because they may not have resources to have health insurance," Mr. Moriarty said.
People without high school diplomas reported 7.2 unhealthy days a month, high school graduates 5.3 days and college graduates four days.
For the general population, the average number of unhealthy days a month was 5.3.
People in South Dakota feel the best, reporting just four unhealthy days a month.
Residents of Kentucky and Nevada felt the worst, with 6.3 unhealthy days a month.
People living in counties with more than a million residents were unhealthy almost 5.6 days a month, while those living in counties with 500,000 to a million people felt bad 5.1 days a month.
However, people living in the least populous areas -- fewer than 25,000 residents -- were almost as sick as their urban counterparts, with 5.4 unhealthy days a month.
Mr. Moriarty said that the study was an initial step in helping local officials to identify problems that could lead to high illness rates in their communities.
Mary Martin, public health manager for the Columbia-Boone County Health Department in Columbia, Mo., agreed, saying, "You have to know where you are to be able to know where you want to go."
A detailed analysis of the study results for 3,000 counties will be released in July. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION MARTIN PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA; UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; URBAN AREAS; RURAL AREAS PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); 

PERSON: DAVID MORIARTY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



267 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Yesterday's Orchard, Today's Dot-Com Target

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J., April 5

 BODY:
Emily Mann's adaptation of "The Cherry Orchard" at the McCarter Theater here opens in somber fashion, with a violin solo in the discordant contemporary mode and the image of a young boy tossing a ball up and down behind a screen so he appears almost as a silhouette. The ball -- it must be a balloon -- rises and falls in watery slow motion; the boy is Grisha, the drowned son who lingers in the memory of his mother, Lyubov Ranevskaya, the haplessly sad-hearted landowner in the throes of heartbreak and disenfranchisment in Chekhov's last play.
The personification of the boy as the tiny specter of grief is one way that Ms. Mann's gently un-Russianized production remembers the individual, as opposed to the societal, traumas visited on the citizens of this melancholy comedy; it sends the play off with an undismissible thrum of defeat. 
 But this "Cherry Orchard" is otherwise a rather amiable one that emphasizes the fecklessness of its gentrified characters, and spills them, at the end, into a new world order that seems not emptier, just busier in background noise. Yes, of course, times have changed, but we can't concentrate on that; love is still impossible; death is still premature.
This is Ms. Mann's millennial idea, that the world is changing differently now, chaotically and bafflingly, rather than with an abrupt swivel. It feels right, though it also undercuts the disastrous, slow doom that the playwright sympathetically visited on his characters a century ago. This production (which runs through Sunday) is born of a world where it is as likely that the hacking down of an orchard could portend economic progress as it could corrupting development.
In the end the sound of chopping as the Ranevskaya household disperses -- that famously ominous herald of a vanished gentility -- isn't much more than static here. Instead the most resonant moment comes earlier; it is the revelation, by the socially risen businessman Lopakhin (Avery Brooks), that it is he who has bought Lyubov's orchard at auction. When he leaps in instinctively untoward delight at his coup, you can't help thinking of a dot.com millionaire.
Such is the sly spirit that makes this rendering of the play contemporary and American without being literally an update. The sparely selected furniture on Adrianne Lobel's set and Jennifer von Mayrhauser's costumes are authentic, but on the McCarter's vast stage they create a period doll-house feel. And the action is set among sliding screened panels, as though passing through shifting decades.
The text, adapted from a literal translation by Ellen Chances, is rendered in sophisticated modern vernacular, and the actors have been encouraged to speak without stilted formality; it's anachronism that works. And Ms. Mann has also made shrewd use of nontraditional casting, employing black actors in a fashion that fixes the eye of this production on the American century.
In addition to Mr. Brooks, there is Roger Robinson, as the shambling 87-year-old valet, Firs; in the touching speech about his arrest, decades earlier, for a killing he didn't commit, the American echoes are chilling. Indeed, you can't help but see the two actors together as bookends of a 100-year African-American journey.
A third black actor, Caroline Stefanie Clay, is cast as Varya, Lyubov's stepdaughter; her aching frustration at Lopakhin's inability to propose to her because he longs for her stepmother is given an added wrench by the racial implication. Lyubov is played by the excellent Jane Alexander, who is, of course, white. The effect of all this is oddly twofold; the casting stratagems add an interpretive tingle but also an air of hope, rather unexpected in the Chekhovian universe.
Led by Ms. Alexander's just-dizzy-enough, woe-is-me portrayal of Lyubov, the crowded Ranevskaya household is presented here as a circus of ineffectuality and pretend dignity. In particular, as Gayev, Lyubov's pompous and utterly useless brother, John Glover is flamboyant and lovable; his speech proposing a birthday celebration for a 100-year-old bookcase is a tour de force of foolishness.
Cupid's errant arrows are the preoccupation of this household; the people in it are much more able to confront one another's love problems than the imminent loss of the family home. And Ms. Mann presents the soap opera with the relish of hormonal riot; it tips, a little unfortunately, to slapstick in the dominant-submissive ballet between the servants Yasha (Jefferson Mays) and Dunyasha (Kate Goehring).
Amid the loopy courtship misfirings, Lopakhin's paralyzing indecision -- Lyubov or Varya? -- stands out as unsatiric. Lopakhin, more than any other character after all, feels the tug of both future and past. Lyubov is his fantasy of attainment, the privileged woman who was kind to him when he was a peasant boy. Varya would be the conventional match in the business-driven new world order that he himself defines.
Playing against physical type, in a performance at the hub of this production, Mr. Brooks is fascinating to watch. His size -- he towers over the other actors -- and his carriage, his erect bearing, don't normally compute in Lopakhin, whose upbringing taught him deference to caste superiors and whose adult affluence is a source of pride and confusion. Mr. Brooks exercises his stature elaborately, folding and unfolding like a collapsible cane as he moves among postures of slack repose, plaintive advice-giving and the joy born of a fat wallet.
When the family departs the homestead that now belongs to him, Lopakhin has won his sought place in the world, but no one is more bereft. In Mr. Brooks's crestfallen exit, with his weakly expressed hope for a reunion -- "So, until spring! Come on, friends" -- is the lingering sadness of victory. It's the inevitable leveling of people, not trees, that keeps Chekhov a playwright for our time.
 
THE CHERRY ORCHARD
By Anton Chekhov; adapted and directed by Emily Mann from a translation by Ellen Chances; sets by Adrianne Lobel; costumes by Jennifer von Mayrhauser; lighting by James F. Ingalls; composer, Mel Marvin; sound by David Budries; choreography by Peter Pucci; literature consultant, Ellen Chances; resident producer, Mara Isaacs; dramaturg, Janice Paran; production stage manager, Alison Cote. Presented by the McCarter Theater in Princeton, N.J.
 
WITH: Jane Alexander (Lyubov Andreyevna Ranevskaya), Anne Dudek (Anya), Caroline Stefanie Clay (Varya), John Glover (Leonid Andreyevich Gayev), Avery Brooks (Yermolai Alexeyevich Lopakhin), Rob Campbell (Petya Trofimov), Allen Swift (Boris Semeonov-Pishchik), Barbara Sukowa (Charlotta), Glenn Fleshler (Semyon Yepikhodov), Kate Goehring (Dunyasha), Roger Robinson (Firs), Jefferson Mays (Yasha) and Benjamin Neumann (Grisha).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jane Alexander and John Glover in "The Cherry Orchard" in Princeton. (T. Charles Erickson/"The Cherry Orchard")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CHERRY ORCHARD, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MCCARTER THEATER (PRINCETON, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: MCCARTER THEATER (PRINCETON, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); MILLENNIUM (70%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; MANN, EMILY; CHEKHOV, ANTON (1860-1904) LYUBOV RANEVSKAYA (94%); EMILY MANN (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



268 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Gain

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Law Removes an Earnings Limit on Recipients of Social Security" (news article, April 8): The bill, passed by Congress without a single dissenting vote and signed by President Clinton, eliminates the earnings test for Social Security recipients age 65 to 69. This bill has symbolic meaning beyond the additional dollars it provides for some. It removes one of the "means test" rules that marked Social Security as a welfare program instead of the insurance it was meant to be. 
 At a time when people are retiring early, living longer and seeking ways to supplement their income over a longer life span, this law allows older people to take part more fully in the strong economy and promotes the idea of employing older men and women with special skills and experience.
 
ROBERT MENCHIN
Chicago, April 8, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; INCOME; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); 

PERSON: MENCHIN, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



269 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: A Little Light Reading, Anyone?;
WhenWeighty Issues Are the Magazines Themselves

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Mark Clements, a magazine consultant, has a new idea for a product: a special piece of luggage designed to carry big, fat magazines.
"Considering how much these things weigh these days, it will be indispensable," he said. "Who can carry this stuff home?" 
 Mr. Clements was joking, but just barely. After all, the magazines he was referring to -- In Style, Vogue, Vanity Fair and W -- have all in the last year blown past their records for size, heft and length. They are part of a growing breed: the obese magazine, publications so fat that if they were people, they might spend their time in a high school auditorium sweating to the oldies with Richard Simmons.
Toss them on a desk, and you'll hear what publishers like to refer to as "the thud factor." (The louder the thud! thunk! or boom! the better.) As the economy continues to thrive, some magazines have become so fat with advertising that the editorial content is sometimes relegated to the increasingly hard-to-find nether reaches of the publication.
These magazines are so packed with perfume-scented pages and dot-com ads -- ranging upward to 1,200 pages a magazine, in extreme cases -- that some are bigger than the Minneapolis/ St. Paul telephone book (988 pages). Because they are printed on heavy, glossy paper, they weigh almost as much as a newborn baby. In Modern Bride's February-March issue, the main editorial feature section does not begin until page 871; by that point in a 19th-century Russian novel, the heroine most likely would have already died her tragic death chapters ago.
Of course, not all magazines are so lucky. Just in the last month, Time Inc. announced that it would stop publishing Life magazine in May. Conde Nast, a subsidiary of Advance Publications, shut down Details in the guise of a four-month publishing hiatus. Both magazines had slimmed down to a foreboding, anemic flimsiness -- relative to their fat cousins -- in their final months.
And even the most successful magazines know that the good times will not last forever. No one expects advertising dollars to keep flowing so generously from Internet businesses intent on establishing their brand.
But for now the magazines that are doing well have never had it so good. This year, In Style broke its own record with 588 pages in its April issue, Vanity Fair had a record 472 pages, Vogue's March issue was 566 pages (not an all-time record, but a record for the month), and W's March issue was 520 pages (W broke its all-time record last March with 562 pages). And while Bride's might send affianced women across the country to the chiropractor -- this spring, the February-March issue made it into the Guinness Book of World Records as the largest magazine ever produced, at 1,271 pages -- so might Modern Bride, with 1,062 pages.
Internet business and technology magazines like Red Herring, Business 2.0 and The Industry Standard are also breaking records. Fortune broke its record with a 630-page issue that arrived on newsstands last week. At The Industry Standard, a weekly, advertising pages have grown more than 450 percent the last year, running 1,548 pages in 2000 through the middle of March. That outpaces every other weekly magazine in the country, including People, by a significant margin, according to Media Industry Newsletter, a trade publication.
Advertisers bought $1.2 billion in consumer magazine advertising for February, the last month for which complete figures are available, according to the Magazine Publishers of America, a trade association. That represents an increase of 15.4 percent over February 1999.
Circulation increases help magazines justify higher ad rates, but the number of readers is often less important than who the readers are and how badly the advertisers want to reach them. According to the Publishers Information Bureau, Vogue's advertising revenue is up 32 percent the first two months of 2000, compared with the same period in 1999, to $21.9 million. But the magazine's circulation was flat for the year ended Dec. 31, the last period for which figures are available, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
Samir Husni, a professor of media at the University of Mississippi and a close observer of the magazine industry, said that magazines have never been so physically huge. "We used to have fat issues in the early 1980's, but it was always just the September issue of Vogue or Elle," he said. "But now any issue of Fast Company or Business 2.0 or In Style is as big as those were."
But with every embarrassment of riches, there is worry. Publishers lie awake at night worrying that consumers might be annoyed at the advertising tonnage. Advertisers fret that their ad might be lost in the vast commercial soup. And with a five-pound beast of a magazine rolling off the printing presses, there can be problems at the printers, at the bindery, with the trucks, at the newsstand, and even with the consumer, who some publishers fear might not want to carry around a magazine that weighs as much as a cinder block.
Martin Walker, a consultant to the magazine industry, said that magazines have become fatter for two reasons: First, the economy is good and advertisers are eager to spread the wealth and, in the case of new Internet companies, develop brand recognition with consumers. Second, the most successful magazines are mostly niche publications, not general-interest magazines, and there has been an emphasis on aiming at specific audiences.
"Fashion and beauty magazines really are vertical, special-interest publications, as are the dot-com magazines and the bridal magazines," Mr. Walker said. "So there is a significant amount of endemic advertising. All the venture capital groups and all the dot-com groups feel it is a requirement that they be in The Industry Standard. Calvin Klein is required to be in Vogue and In Style. But who's required to be in Time? No one. And that's why you won't see a Time magazine this fat."
But even the general-interest weekly magazines are getting chubby these days. The Dec. 5, 1999, issue of The New York Times Magazine was 214 pages, a record for recent years. Time magazine's last issue of 1999 was 252 pages.
But does anyone really look at 1,180 pages of ads anyway? If magazine publishers are to be believed, the answer is yes.
"The real question is, does it turn off the reader?" Mr. Walker asked. "Absolutely not. To a woman reading a bridal magazine, an ad for a wedding gown is just as interesting as an editorial page featuring a wedding gown. What's the difference between a Calvin Klein ad in Vogue and a Calvin Klein editorial page? Absolutely nothing."
Richard D. Beckman, the publisher of Vogue, said the advertising in the March and September issues, when readers are thinking about new clothing purchases, "is the strength of the book -- readers shop the magazine."
"The ad, the edit, it's all the same," said John Balen, the associate marketing director of Modern Bride.
The notion that readers might be turned off by a magazine's weight and too many ads prompted Louis Cona, the publisher of In Style, to survey 5,000 readers of the magazine recently. "We were concerned because we thought too much weight might affect the pass-along readership," he said. (A high rate of pass-along readership -- how many people see each copy -- helps bolster advertising rates.)
Mr. Cona said that 66 percent of the respondents said that "a thick book makes the issue more valuable." And 87 percent said that the weight of the magazine did not deter them from carrying it to another place to read.
But Yogi Berra's observation -- it's too crowded; nobody goes there anymore -- holds true for advertisers: some shy away from the fat magazines. Gene DeWitt, the chief executive of Optimedia International (U.S.), an advertising services agency in New York, said that if advertisers could not get highly trafficked pages in a packed magazine, they might skip that issue.
"In the business category, we'll discuss Forbes, Fortune and Business Week and advertisers will say, 'Forget about Business Week, it's too cluttered,' " he said. (Business Week's ad pages have risen 28 percent over last year.) "And in some issues of Vogue, if you can't get a good spot, you may say to yourself, 'Why would I want to be in there?' They won't drop the magazine altogether, but a guaranteed position is required."
Does more advertising mean more articles? Not necessarily. Most of the obese magazines stray from the norm for the average ratio of advertising to editorial content, as measured by the Magazine Publishers of America. The trade group reported last year that the average ratio for American consumer magazines was 49.4 percent advertising to 50.6 editorial content.
Vanity Fair's March issue was 66 percent advertising; the February-March Bride's -- with a whopping 1,180 pages of ads, said Nina Lawrence, the publisher of Bride's -- was 93 percent advertising.
Mr. Cona of In Style said that he was careful to monitor the ratio of advertising to editorial pages, keeping it to an average of about 47 percent editorial to about 53 percent advertising. But the April issue of In Style had 337 pages of advertising and 235 pages of editorial content, or about 41 percent editorial to 59 percent advertising.
The March issue of Vogue had 177 pages of editorial and 389 pages of advertising, or about 31 percent to 69 percent.
All that advertising can complicate production. In Style has grown so big in recent months that there have been delays in getting the magazine to newsstands.
"You can only bind 7,500 copies of In Style per hour, as opposed to most magazines, where you can bind 11,000 copies per hour," Mr. Cona said. "As you slow down that process, you can have delivery problems to wholesalers, which gets them out late on the newsstand, which costs you sales."
The cost of trucking the magazines has also risen. When In Style was first published in 1995, 20 magazines fit into one bundle. Now, only five do. Mr. Cona has had to hire extra drivers and trucks and has also had to buy bigger, deeper newsstand racks -- but of course all the cost is offset by the surging advertising revenue.
"Look, there are worse problems to have in this world," Mr. Cona said. "As long as it thuds, it's good." And he said that he is always gratified when Don Logan, the chief executive of Time Inc., which publishes In Style, calls to see the early copies.
"He drops it on his desk and he listens," Mr. Cona said. "And the louder the thud, the happier he is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Heavier and fatter magazines have led to production problems, but those have been outweighed by the heftier bottom lines. (Photographs by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Bulking Up"
Many of today's magazines are getting bigger, breaking all previous records for number of pages -- and weight. Here are a few recent examples. Magazines are shown actual size.
 
W -- March 2000
WEIGHT: 2 lbs. 15 oz.
PAGES: 520 (208 editorial; 312 advertising)
PRICE: $4.50
 
In Style -- April 2000
WEIGHT: 2 lbs. 13 oz.
PAGES: 588 (235 editorial; 353 advertising)
PRICE: $3.50
 
Bride's -- February/March 2000
WEIGHT: 4 lbs. 10 oz.
PAGES: 1,271 (90 editorial; 1,181 advertising)
PRICE: $5.50
 
Vogue -- March 2000
WEIGHT: 3 lbs. 6 oz.
PAGES: 566 (177 editorial; 389 advertising)
PRICE: $3.50
 
Vanity Fair -- April 2000
WEIGHT: 2 lbs. 7 oz.
PAGES: 472 (156 editorial; 316 advertising)
PRICE: $3.95
 
Fortune -- April 2000
WEIGHT: 2 lbs. 2 oz.
PAGES: 634 (248 editorial; 386 advertising)
PRICE: $4.95
(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Attracting More Ads"
In a trend that shows no sign of fading, magazines are attracting more advertising pages and dollars.
 
Graph shows advertising pages and dollars earned (in billions) from 1995-1999. (Source: Publishers Information Bureau)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (70%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (69%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BRIDE'S (MAGAZINE); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA; W (MAGAZINE); IN STYLE (MAGAZINE); VOGUE (MAGAZINE); VANITY FAIR (MAGAZINE); FORTUNE (MAGAZINE) TIME INC (84%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (59%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRIDE'S (MAGAZINE); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA; W (MAGAZINE); IN STYLE (MAGAZINE); VOGUE (MAGAZINE); VANITY FAIR (MAGAZINE); FORTUNE (MAGAZINE) MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (59%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (69%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ADVERTISING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX RICHARD SIMMONS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



270 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Bonds Rise Smartly On Expectations of Buyback

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday on speculation that the Treasury Department may step up its purchases of government debt after the April 17 tax-filing deadline and as a decline in the Nasdaq composite index bolstered the allure of bonds.
"People feel bulletproof" owning bonds against the threat of rising interest rates, said Dana Johnson, research chief at Banc One Capital Markets. "Once April tax receipts start pouring in," the Treasury is going to accelerate the buyback. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 16/32 , to 108 13/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.66 percent from 5.70 percent on Friday.
Treasuries extended gains in late trading as the Nasdaq plunged 5 percent, sending some investors into the haven of fixed-income debt, analysts said. Notes also got a lift after the Federal Reserve bought Treasuries due between April 30, 2003, and Feb. 15, 2004, as part of its regular money market operations.
With two years of budget surpluses behind it, the government last month repurchased $2 billion in longer-term government debt, part of a planned $30 billion buyback this year. Those plans and reduced debt sales have helped push the 30-year yield down more than three-quarters of a percentage point since January. Bonds have returned 12.9 percent, including reinvested interest, erasing last year's losses, the worst since the Treasury began regular bond sales in 1977.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Price	98.564	97.040	 	High Rate	5.68%	5.85%	 	Investment Rate	5.84%	6.11%	 	Low Rate	5.65%	5.68%	 	Median Rate	5.67%	5.83%	 	Total applied for	$34,176,313	$29,003,155	 	Accepted	$12,472,943	$11,533,155	 	Noncompetitive	$1,378,827	$1,119,666	 	
 
Both issues are dated April 13, 2000. The three-month bills mature on July 13, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 12, 2000. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT TREASURY DEPARTMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (96%); TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



271 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Philippines Set to Privatize Power Company

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 10

 BODY:
Legislators in the Philippines are set to vote this week on a bill that would privatize the heavily indebted national power company, a reform that the International Monetary Fund and other lenders have demanded before disbursing critical new loans.
The House of Representatives is scheduled to begin voting on Tuesday on the Power Reform Bill, which would overhaul the nation's power industry and put the unprofitable, state-run National Power Corporation into private hands. President Joseph Estrada and Manuel B. Villar, the House leader, have both pledged support for the bill, which the Philippine congress aims to make law by this summer. 
 The I.M.F. has given Manila until June 30 to pass the power bill, along with the privatization of the Philippines National Bank, before it releases $500 million in loans needed to help offset the country's 62.5 billion peso ($1.5 billion) budget deficit. The World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have also made further lending contingent on the reforms.
This week's vote has also become a test of the credibility of Mr. Estrada's administration. Action on the power reform bill has been delayed for years.
"Investors want to see some tangible evidence that the government can do something right," said Rebecca Patterson, an analyst at J. P. Morgan in Singapore. If legislators fail to push the power reform bill through this week, she said, "it suggests they can't get anything done."
Selling the company would also have several tangible benefits, economists say. These include easing electricity prices, which are second only to Japan's, promoting investment and reducing a sizable burden on public finances. Government outlays to Napocor, as the money-losing utility is known, are a major contributor to the Philippines budget deficit.
While there is some optimism the House can pass the bill before next week's Easter recess, there is less hope about its fate in the Senate.
The Philippines is not the only country in Southeast Asia where the I.M.F. is threatening to cut off aid to stimulate economic changes. In Indonesia last week, the I.M.F.'s move to withhold $400 million in loans spurred the government in Jakarta to expedite economic changes to keep the money flowing.
Philippine financial markets have been rocked this year by concerns about creeping cronyism and other forms of corruption. Fueling those concerns is a scandal over accusations of insider trading involving a friend of Mr. Estrada. The stock exchange's entire compliance department resigned late last month to protest what it called a cover-up of the insider trading.
The scandal is overshadowing what economists say is an otherwise positive economic picture. A trade surplus, low interest rates and strengthening domestic demand are underpinning an economy that analysts at Merrill Lynch predict will grow 3.4 percent this year.
Napocor's financial problems are partly the result of the country's chronic power shortages of the early 1990's. In response, the company signed contracts with roughly a dozen independent power producers, who now provide about a quarter of the nation's electricity. The contracts overestimated the country's power demand, however, meaning Napocor has to pay for the power the country does not need. Worse, most of the power plants use oil for fuel, leaving the Philippines dependent on petroleum imports for about half of its power needs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Estrada, the Philippine president, has pledged to support a power reform bill. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (95%); ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL POWER CORP; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; PHILIPPINES NATIONAL BANK; ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL POWER CORP (72%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL POWER CORP; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; PHILIPPINES NATIONAL BANK; ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES; PHILIPPINES (95%); ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRIVATIZATION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); PRIVATIZATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); INSIDER TRADING (87%); SCANDALS (84%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CORRUPTION (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; ESTRADA, JOSEPH (PRES) JOSEPH ESTRADA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



272 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: 'Cheap Chic' Draws Crowds on 5th Ave.

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA 

 BODY:
On Friday, a crowd packed the sidewalk waiting for the 10 a.m. opening of H&M, a purveyor of cheap chic that is Manhattan's latest temple to consumerism. Held back by velvet ropes, as if at a nightclub, customers were squeezed shoulder to shoulder. The instant the portals swung open, they rushed the racks, snatching up $9 tank tops, $30 dresses and $19 drawstring pants -- the fashion equivalent of fast food, in both price and trendiness.
Many failed to notice that it was soon well past the hour when more conscientious New Yorkers are at their desks. "I'm supposed to be at an audition right now, and I have to catch a plane at 1," said Becky Bahling, 22, an actress. But the prospect of missed flights and squandered opportunities seemed not to faze her. "I want this and I want it now," she said, slipping on a caramel-colored leather coat that cost $170. 
 On another day last week, Diego Del Pino, 26, a Web site designer for Sothebys.com, was making his third visit to the store since its opening on March 31. He plucked out a pair of $39.99 trousers to match a $69.99 gray linen sport coat. "Before I came here, I used to shop at the Gap and Banana Republic," he said. "But lately those stores have been so boring. The design just isn't there." As for prices, he said, "Well, compared to almost anywhere, this place is heaven."
Judging by the throngs descending on H&M, on Fifth Avenue at 51st Street, many shoppers do regard it as a retail Nirvana. On Saturday there was a 25-minute wait for one of the unisex dressing rooms, and customers were changing in the aisles. A woman demanded a paisley skirt from a mannequin when the racks were emptied. At peak hours, the store restocks from garment racks on the sidewalks and trucks waiting in the street.
"People told us that New Yorkers didn't line up to come into stores," said Par Darj, director of United States operations for H&M, a Stockholm-based chain with 700 stores in 12 European countries. "How did this happen? We're very surprised."
So are retail experts. "They're able to translate forward fashion quickly at value prices, and at least in the first few days, they have been very successful," said Arnold Aronson, managing director of retail strategies for Kurt Salmon Associates, a retail consulting firm. "I've seen consumers walking out not with onesies and twosies, but with dozens of garments. If the store can make adequate margins to satisfy their profit needs, then they've got something very relevant."
The press of shoppers is all the more remarkable considering that only a month ago, few New Yorkers had heard of H&M, or Hennes & Mauritz, as it is formally known. But on the strength of a last-minute flurry of advertisements featuring the actress Chloe Sevigny and enthusiastic word of mouth, the store has succeeded, for the moment at least, in pumping consumers' adrenalin levels to dizzying heights. Mr. Darj said 2,000 shoppers rushed into the 35,000-square-foot store the first 13 minutes it was open.
H&M arrives at a time when consumer shopping patterns have changed markedly in the United States. Ever on the prowl for bargains, and made cynical by frequent store markdowns and promotions, even many affluent customers have deserted department stores. They shop instead at discounters like Target and outlet centers like Woodbury Common in Central Valley, N.Y.
"It's chic to pay less," said Howard L. Davidowitz, a New York retail analyst. "More now than it ever has been."
The success of chains like Old Navy has shown that even in an economic boom, customers will flock to retailers offering deep discounts. But while Old Navy sells basics like T-shirts and cargo shorts, H&M's formula is to offer much hipper fashion at rock-bottom prices. With most items priced well below $100, even the occasional cheap-feeling fabric or frayed hem isn't turning off shoppers intent on getting the latest Helmut Lang or Prada look-alike. The clothes are for the most part a synthesis of current runway fashion and street styles: fringed and embroidered hippie chic, lots of leather, uptown ladylike clothes.
Margareta van den Bosch, H&M's chief designer, maintained that her 70-member team, which designs under 23 labels for men, women and children, was not creating knockoffs. "Of course we follow fashion," she said. "We have invested quite a lot in that. But we want to do things our own way."
In the recent past, urban shoppers on the prowl for cutting-edge style at deep discounts had to wait for sales at midprice apparel chains like Zara, Club Monaco or Scoop, or ferret out deals amid the bedding and barbecue grills at Kmart and Target. H&M stores cater to young-minded patrons who prefer to shop guilt-free for fashion that can be discarded after only a season or so.
"They're coming in at a level between Target and the department stores," said Candace Corlett, a partner at WSL Retail Strategies, a retail consultant. "It certainly has the competition sitting up and taking notice."
Stores like Lerner New York, the Limited Express and Bloomingdale's, which might be most directly affected if H&M sets off a price war, seem to have a wary eye on the newcomer. Bloomingdale's ran ads last week linking style and value in what seemed an obvious attempt to compete.
A spokesman for Lerner New York, Philip Monaghan, said there were so few stores selling truly stylish clothes at ultralow prices that the arrival of H&M would not set off a price war. "I don't think we're going to feel the impact from H&M," he said. "They're not in the malls of America yet."
But H&M intends to be there. Days after opening on Fifth Avenue, the chain opened a second 35,000-square-foot store at the Palisades Mall in West Nyack, N.Y. And on Thursday, it will open a third at the Garden State Plaza in Paramus, N.J. There are also plans for a 40,000-square-foot store on West 34th Street, around the corner from Macy's, and a store on Lexington Avenue in the former Alexander's location. Retail analysts estimate that the chain plans 100 stores nationwide.
But some experts said they doubted H&M could sustain such aggressive expansion, speculating that profits would suffer. "H&M appears to be doing a large number of transactions," said Richard B. Hodos, the president of HGCD Retail Service, a retail consulting and brokerage firm. "But it would be interesting to see the average dollar amount that they are ringing up."
Mr. Darj declined to cite revenue figures for the store's first week, or to specify how much H&M must sell to be profitable. But he did say the numbers were "well beyond our expectations."
Other analysts questioned whether the notion of "disposable chic" would ultimately prove distasteful to customers. "It's the kind of merchandise we used to call flash and trash," said Richard Jaffee, a retail analyst at Paine Webber.
But Mr. Jaffe praised what he called the store's energy level: its mix of shoppers, young and old, hip and fashion-clueless, and the amount of socializing that goes on while customers shop. "The store is positioned to generate the same kind of excitement we used to see on the main floor of Bloomingdale's 20 years ago," he said.
On Friday, Mattie Ullrich, 26, a movie costume designer, was weighed down by her haul, which included a plaid skirt ($25) and a tiger-print tank top ($17). "This is fun," she said, teetering toward a register. Holding up a sleeveless bead-embroidered sweater, she said, "I love this top."
"The only bummer," she added, "is that by this time next week everyone else in New York will have it, too."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Even in the morning, well before the lunch (a k a shopping) hour, crowds are large at the new H&M store on Fifth Avenue.; Mattie Ullrich, a costume designer and an enthusiastic shopper, called this $17 tiger-print camisole "the coolest thing in the store."; To keep the clothes racks filled at H&M, workers unload at least a truckload of merchandise each hour.; A model in H&M merchandise: a $19 cotton sweater and a $109 pair of suede boot-leg trousers.; Model in a fitted white poplin shirt, which is $19, and a pair of hot-pink leather pants, at $129.; A shopper in the store, Becky Bahling, an actress, models the caramel leather coat she bought for $170. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HM.B (STO) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: H&M (NYC CLOTHING STORE) H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (92%); BANANA REPUBLIC (84%); KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: H&M (NYC CLOTHING STORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (66%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FAST FASHION (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (77%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: LA FERLA, RUTH

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



273 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Africa's Plague, and Everyone's

BYLINE: By Nadine Gordimer; Nadine Gordimer, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1991, is a goodwill ambassador for the Race Against Poverty project of the United Nations Development Program.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
Sixty-nine percent of the world's victims of H.I.V. and AIDS are in sub-Saharan Africa. This figure is not easy to take in. AIDS seems to have come upon everyone while we were looking the other way: it happened to some sex or color other than our own; it was endemic to some other country.
In South Africa it was quite some time before the realization that the disease was not the unfortunate problem of our poorer neighboring countries, but was our own. Now, out of South Africa's 43 million people, about 4 million have been infected by H.I.V. and a further 1,700 are infected daily. Recently, in a Johannesburg home caring for orphaned or abandoned babies born with AIDS, there was a service in memory of 40 who had died there not long before. While South Africa is the most highly developed country on the African continent, we are faced with this kind of future for the generations to come. 
 But every community, every affected country, has to decide how to approach what is no longer a problem but a catastrophe. There is prevention, and there is cure. The ideal is to seek both at once, but this is beyond the capacity of most countries where the disease is rampant.
Cure, and prevention by inoculation, are not within the capacity of lay people; these are in the hands of medical science, which implies money to be provided to advance research. Immediate prevention is in the hands and initiative of each population itself.
I believe we cannot emphasize bluntly enough that the cure and vaccine development depend on money. And until recently, the country that has the money, the United States, perhaps inevitably has concentrated on a vaccine for a subtype of AIDS prevalent in the Northern Hemisphere. It was only at the World Economic Forum's meeting this year that President Clinton announced that large-scale aid for vaccine development would be forthcoming from the United States. Only now has the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative announced a third international development project, based on those subtypes of the virus most prevalent in the direly affected regions of Southern and East Africa, the subtypes C and A.
It is encouraging that the project is being pursued in wide collaboration among researchers of the United States, South Africa, Kenya and Oxford University, and that the philosophy of the initiative is that of "social venture capital," meaning that in return for financing, it has secured rights to ensure that a successful vaccine, when it is achieved, will be distributed in developing countries "at a reasonable price." The formation of an International Partnership Against HIV/AIDS in Africa is to be welcomed as extremely important in the same context.
The question of money -- price -- is vital in terms of the palliatives available to arrest the disease and alleviate symptoms. It is another piercing example of the gulf between the world's rich and the world's poor that the suffering from AIDS may be alleviated, and even the lives prolonged, of those victims who can afford expensive treatment. The same principle applies to prevention. Everywhere in Africa moral and humanitarian decisions are a common dilemma, with money the deciding factor.
At the level of international -- global -- responsibility, the total sum needed annually for AIDS prevention in Africa is on the order of $2.3 billion. Africa currently receives only $165 million a year in official assistance from the world community.
Other questions that rest with the world community become relevant: debt relief for developing countries, for example. The director-general of the World Health Organization said last year that debt relief should be reviewed in light of the resources that governments with large debts need to confront H.I.V.
The role of governments in financing is another example. Where does the defense budget not far exceed the public health budget to combat AIDS? Nevertheless, what H.I.V. and AIDS mean to the capability to govern, ultimately, was revealed in South Africa by the minister of public service and administration in February. The public service is the largest employer in the country and the fundamental government structure. In 1999, one in eight South Africans was H.I.V.-positive. It is estimated that 270,000 out of 1.1 million public servants could be infected by 2004. This looming crisis in governance exists almost everywhere on the African continent. If, in developing countries, defense budgets continue to leave H.I.V. budgets relegated to a footnote, all we shall have left to defend in the end is a graveyard.
AIDS is not only a health catastrophe, a challenge to medical science. It is socially enmeshed in the conditions of life that obtain while it spreads, just as the medieval plague was in its time. Although AIDS is no respecter of class or caste, slum conditions, ignorance and superstition (it is a white man's disease; it is a black man's disease) make the poor its greatest source of victims.
In working to prevent the spread of the virus, we must accept the idea that promiscuity is difficult to condemn when sex is the cheapest or only available satisfaction for people society leaves to live on the street. On another socioeconomic level, casual sex thrives among young people who are materially privileged yet whom society has failed to endow with the real values of human sexuality, the knowledge that fulfillment involves contact with the other's personality, that the sexual act is not some mere bodily function like evacuation -- which is what some campaigners seem to reduce it to.
There are subtleties, important ones, connected with any campaign against H.I.V. and AIDS, if it is to succeed in changing attitudes toward sexual mores. For there will be a cure discovered, there will be a vaccine -- and after that? How shall we restore the quality of human relations that have been debased, shamed, reduced to the source of a fatal disease? The free condom dispenser is not the panacea. Neither, alone, is sex education restricted to anatomical diagrams and dire warnings in schools. The entire meaningfulness of personal sexual relations will need to be restored. That is what social health means, along with inoculation and survival.
Self-interest cannot be discounted. So, to the developed world, a pragmatic word from the stricken African continent: Call not to ask for whom the stock exchange bell tolls and the figures on the computer sound the alarm -- the toll is for Europe, for the United States, even for those countries where H.I.V. and AIDS victims are few. For if the markets and vast potential markets for the developed world's goods fail -- if decimated populations mean there is no one left economically active with money to spend -- that bell tolls for thee, globally.
H.I.V./AIDS is everyone's disaster. It has, finally, something to do with our whole manner of existence. It confronts us with questions that must be answered historically: What have we done with the world, politically? What are we doing with the world? What do we mean by development? Some Ugandans who had been in the audience of an AIDS information play were asked what message it had brought them. One said, "Don't go out with bar girls." Another said, "Stick to one partner." Then an older woman said: "AIDS has come to haunt a world that thought it was incomplete. Some wanted children, some wanted money, some wanted property, and all we ended up with is AIDS."
Maybe she spoke for Africa.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Bierut)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: AFRICA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); KENYA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); KENYA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME AIDS & HIV (93%); VACCINES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (88%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); CHILDREN (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (70%); BIOLOGICS MFG (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); 

PERSON: GORDIMER, NADINE BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



274 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Putin, in Major Test, Wins Accord for Vote on Nuclear Arms

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 10

 BODY:
In the first major test of a new and more centrist parliamentary majority, President-elect Vladimir V. Putin reached agreement today with his legislative allies to bring a long-delayed nuclear arms reduction treaty to a ratification vote in Parliament as early as Friday.
Proponents of ratifying the treaty, known as Start II, predicted that they had the votes to win. The decision to move forward immediately with the vote in the wake of Mr. Putin's victory in the presidential election last month was hailed as a significant advance for arms control, an agenda that a Communist-led coalition that dominated the Parliament has blocked for five years. 
 But with the victory in December by liberal and centrist parties, who won a majority of the 450 Parliament seats, a strong ratification would also demonstrate the realignment that is taking shape as Mr. Putin prepares to undertake a new phase of economic reforms for which he will need strong backing.
"The presidential elections have given us a good chance to be guided by Russia's interests and not to look back at internal problems and engage in politicking," said Sergei Ivanov, director of the national security council under Mr. Putin, after a meeting of the advisory body this afternoon in the Kremlin.
A number of legislative leaders here, as well as senior members of the Clinton administration, have been urging Moscow to vote on the treaty before Mr. Putin is sworn in on May 7. On Friday in Washington, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott was quoted by Reuters as having said, "The Russians continue to assure us, including in the last 24 hours, that the process for ratifying Start II in the Duma is under way."
But with all the prodding, it appeared that Mr. Putin decided to test his strength in the Parliament only after it was clear from legislative leaders that a majority would support ratification.
The treaty is still quite likely to be opposed by Communist deputies. The Communist Party leader, Gennadi A. Zyuganov, in a televised interview tonight, reiterated his view that the treaty "in its current state is absolutely defective" and would destroy "Russia's most important nuclear missile umbrella" at a time when Russia lacks the budget resources to maintain a strategic missile force as large as that of the United States.
"They propose to destroy our missiles, while mass production of new ones has not started, and there is no money for it," Mr. Zyuganov said.
But another legislative leader, Vladimir Lukin, a member of the liberal Yabloko faction and a former ambassador to the United States, said he did not believe that the Communists would be able to muster more than 150 votes if they opposed ratification. "So it seems that a majority is being hammered together," Mr. Lukin said, adding that the chances for ratification were "rather high."
In one sense, the ratification of the seven-year-old treaty is the least contentious item on the arms control agenda. A more heated debate lies ahead in the Start III negotiations, where Moscow is seeking deeper cuts in strategic arsenals, in part because it can no longer afford a large array of strategic weapons, and where Washington is seeking Russian acceptance for American plans to build an antiballistic missile shield over the United States to protect it from "rogue states" and accidental launchings.
Those plans have incited deep concerns here and in China that the United States will ultimately destabilize the strategic balance by having both a shield against nuclear missiles and the most robust offensive nuclear forces.
Today, Moscow warned that it remains opposed to American plans to build a national missile defense system that would undermine the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972. Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, meeting today with American executives and journalists, said, "The collapse of the 1972 ABM Treaty would cast the world into a new confrontation."
Adding that an American decision to scrap the treaty would undermine relations between Moscow and Washington, Mr. Ivanov said, "The climate in which our economic cooperation develops depends to a large extent on the long-term resolution of issues related to strategic stability."
The chairman of the Duma international affairs committee, Dimitri Rogozin, said ratifying Start II and its extensions that were agreed to in 1997 provided "an opportunity to keep the Americans from quitting the Antiballistic Missile Treaty."
Start II, negotiated in the last year of the Bush administration, commits the United States and Russia to reduce their nuclear arsenals, from 6,000 to 3,000 to 3,500 warheads each. One milestone of the accord is a ban on land-based missiles with multiple warheads. American negotiators have long sought to eliminate those systems, most notably the heavy SS-18 rockets with 10 warheads each. The missiles and warhead destruction was to have been carried out by 2003. But in the absence of ratification, the two sides agreed to deactivate the affected missiles by that date and destroy them by 2007.
President Boris N. Yeltsin failed to bring the treaty to a vote in 1996 and 1997. In late 1998, as the Communist-led Duma prepared to debate the accord, American and British air strikes on Iraq led to a delay. Washington's announcement last year that it would seek amendments to the ABM treaty also resulted in delay. In March 1999, Duma leaders said they would vote on the measure the next month. But that was delayed, too, when NATO moved against Serbia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); 

PERSON: PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); SERGEI IVANOV (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



275 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Breaking the Ice in Korea

 BODY:
The unexpected announcement yesterday that the leaders of North and South Korea plan to meet in June could lead to a lessening of tensions on the cold war's last military frontier. The talks between South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, and Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, would be the first discussion between the leaders of the two Koreas since the peninsula was divided after World War II.
It is nearly 50 years since an armistice ended the Korean War. But a peace agreement has yet to be signed. Each side has stationed hundreds of thousands of troops on either side of a demilitarized zone filled with tank barriers and minefields. Some 37,000 American troops remain permanently based in South Korea to bolster Seoul's defenses should the North again attack. Meanwhile, North Korea's flirtation with nuclear weapons and long-range missiles compounds the dangers and the risk of renewed American military involvement. 
 Although the North's main motive in seeking this meeting seems to be its desire to take up Seoul's offers of humanitarian relief and economic assistance, the South is sure to bring up security issues as well. For years, North Korea tried to reach around South Korean leaders to strike a deal with the United States. Washington has wisely insisted that direct dialogue between North and South Korea must come first.
Since Kim Dae Jung was elected South Korea's president in 1997, he has courted new business, tourist and humanitarian ties with the North. His "sunshine policy" has tried to couple continued military vigilance with new openings aimed at encouraging more predictable, less dangerous relations across the 38th Parallel. The announcement of the June meetings, to take place in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, confirms the wisdom of Seoul's approach. It does so at a particularly helpful time for President Kim, just three days before important Congressional elections that will determine how much political authority he commands during the remaining three years of his term.
The North's agreement to these meetings seems to demonstrate that Kim Jong Il is now firmly in charge of North Korea and inclined to reach out diplomatically to the wider world. In recent weeks the once reclusive North has sought improved ties not just with Seoul but with various European countries, China, Japan and the United States. Though political developments inside North Korea remain largely opaque, this spurt of diplomatic activity must be considered encouraging.
North Korea is still dangerous and unpredictable. Its economy barely functions and there are fears that it could abruptly collapse, sending millions of refugees fleeing south and perhaps sparking clashes across the DMZ. Seoul should approach this meeting carefully. Previous efforts to bring together the top Northern and Southern leaders have fallen through. If the June meetings proceed as planned, however, they could start a belated but hopeful thaw in relations between the two Koreas. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH & SOUTH RAILWAYS LTD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REFUGEES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); 

PERSON: KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); KIM JONG IL KIM JONG IL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



276 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks Will Buy Beans at Premium

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, April 10

 BODY:
The Starbucks Corporation said today that it would buy more coffee beans from importers paying above-market prices to small farmers and would sell them in its more than 2,000 United States coffee shops and on its Web site.
The Seattle-based company will buy an unspecified amount of so-called fair trade beans from wholesale sellers that are certified by the nonprofit group TransFair USA to pay up to three times the 30 cents a pound farmers typically receive. 
 Starbucks will pay a minimum of $1.26 a pound, a price above the current world market rate but less than its average cost, to cooperatives that pay up to $1 a pound to farmers. The program will begin in Central America but may expand to other regions.
Global Exchange, a group that has repeatedly urged Starbucks to buy fair trade coffee and had planned protests at Starbucks coffee shops in 30 cities this week, praised the deal as a step toward ending exploitation of coffee growers.
"This is a gigantic first step toward establishing fair trade coffee as an economically viable alternative," said Jason Mark, a Global Exchange spokesman. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP; GLOBAL EXCHANGE (ORGN); TRANSFAIRUSA (ORGN) STARBUCKS CORP (93%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (91%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: STARBUCKS CORP; GLOBAL EXCHANGE (ORGN); TRANSFAIRUSA (ORGN) GLOBAL EXCHANGE (91%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COFFEE (91%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE FARMING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); WEB SITES (57%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



277 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Internet Take overs Fuel a Big Surge in Acquisitions in Brazil

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 10

 BODY:
Fueled by a flurry of Internet takeovers, mergers and acquisitions in Brazil surged in the first quarter of this year.
Latin America's largest economy had 65 transactions involving the acquisition of controlling stakes in medium- to large-sized companies, or 23 percent more than in the first three months of last year, according to figures compiled by the Brazilian unit of KPMG, the consulting firm. 
 A healthier economy provided the backdrop to the increase in takeover activity, since Brazil was struggling to recover from a debilitating currency devaluation in the same period last year. But there is no doubt that a frenzy of deal making in the country's vibrant Internet industry contributed to the growth of mergers and takeovers.
Fourteen of the transactions involved Internet companies, up from three in the first quarter of 1999. Among the foreign firms involved in this buying spree were PSINet Corporation, which acquired two Internet service providers, and Portugal Telecom, which bought Zip.net, a portal company, for $365 million.
"There's still a nationalist tendency in Brazil to view transnational takeovers skeptically," said Marcos Moraes, the founder of Zip.net, who still sits on its board. "I hope this nearsightedness will not keep us from trying to bridge the gap between Brazil and developed countries through the Internet."
Brazil's Internet industry continues to undergo a rapid consolidation process, imitating, in a way, the Internet industries of the United States and other rich nations. Other Brazilian industries contributed to the increase in takeovers as well, driven in part by a perception that bigger companies are more powerful.
Analysts have pointed to Brazil's largest-ever corporate takeover, Companhia Cervejaria Brahma's $7 billion acquisition of Companhia Antarctica Paulista, recently approved by antitrust officials, as a signal of things to come.
"Scale matters, period," said Carlos Novis Guimaraes , the head of Latin American investment banking at Lehman Brothers. "The Brahma-Antarctica deal could be played out in sectors that are still quite fragmented, like banking and insurance."
One closely watched deal will be the privatization this year of Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A., or Banespa, which has extensive consumer banking operations in southeastern Brazil. Among the candidates to buy Banespa is Citigroup, as well as Brazil's largest banks.
Another big transaction will be the federal government's privatization of its reinsurance monopoly, I.R.B.-Brasil Resseguros S.A.
Still, concern has emerged over the effect that wide swings in the Nasdaq and other United States markets may have on mergers and acquisitions in Brazil. Today, the Bovespa index for the Sao Paulo stock exchange fell 4.2 percent, led lower by technology issues. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMBV3 (BOVESPA) (57%); ABV (NYSE) (57%); PTC (LIS) (56%); PT (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (67%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

COMPANY: KPMG PEAT MARWICK BANCO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO SA (BANESPA) (82%); CIA DE BEBIDAS DAS AMERICAS (AMBEV) (57%); PORTUGAL TELECOM SGPS SA (56%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: KPMG PEAT MARWICK

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (67%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (92%); TAKEOVERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); DEVALUATION (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); RETAIL BANKING (62%); INVESTMENT BANKING (62%); REINSURANCE (61%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (53%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



278 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Mood-Dimming Question in Seoul

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 10

 BODY:
An unusual catalog of emotions shock, relief, wariness -- were on display today as South Koreans learned that their president would go to North Korea in June for their country's first summit meeting with the leader of the Communist North.
One reaction, nearly universal, was shock that a meeting that few had imagined possible had been successfully negotiated in secret. In almost every case, the surprise was followed with a happy sense of relief that the cold war might finally be ending in one of its final redoubts. 
 Then came the practical question, asked by almost all: What will it cost us?
Such a mood-dampening question, on an occasion seemingly fit for celebration, was an expression of the extraordinary circumstances of a diplomatic breakthrough whose basis has still not been publicly explained. Why, after years of snubbing South Korea as an insignificant puppet of the United States, has the North Korean government chosen the eve of crucial national elections in the south to offer that country its most precious diplomatic plum?
"We are all waiting for the details of what we must give them and what we can expect from North Korea," said Yeon Ha Cheong, an expert in relations with that country and dean of the school of marketing at Myongai University in Seoul. "North Korea will certainly demand lots of things."
After announcing the breakthrough today, the South Korean government compounded the mystery by retreating into a shell, providing almost no information about the secret negotiations that led to the agreement with the North. The government did say that the task of fixing an agenda for the talks would be left to diplomats.
That left many South Korean experts on North Korean diplomatic behavior wondering aloud who was playing whom. To hear them speak, either the South Korean government is cynically manipulating the issue of national unification for vote-getting purposes or the leadership is being had by a Pyongyang government that senses its desperatation for a pre-election breakthrough.
In practical terms the legislative vote here on Thursday will determine how much power the South Korean president, Kim Dae Jung, wields for his remaining three years in office. And in addition to finally rewarding Mr. Kim for the steep political risks he has taken in reaching out to the north, several analysts here said the North Koreans most likely calculated that the eve of the vote was the moment to strike a diplomatic deal at the best price.
"This kind of meeting cannot come all of the sudden, out of nowhere," said Cho Dong Ho, head of North Korean economic studies at the Korea Development Institute, a private nonprofit group. "No one knows in detail, but the basic agenda must be a longer-term framework of political contacts between us and, of course, economic cooperation."
Although North Korea is widely believed to be past the worst of its catastrophic economic difficulties of the last decade, during which 200,000 people or more died of starvation, the country is still afflicted with debilitating power shortages.
One potential reward widely mentioned today as a possible recompense for giving President Kim such a diplomatic vindication on the eve of elections was a reconnection of the power grids between the two countries, enabling the booming South to furnish desperately needed electricity.
Speculation about quid pro quos has been magnified by observation of North Korea's recent diplomatic behavior. For years, since the end of the cold war and the loss of most of its Communist allies, the country's government bore the title of the world's most isolated.
But North Korea has recently emerged as one of the most diplomatically active countries, as it has rushed to establish ties with a wide range of countries. In most instances formal ties, or even serious diplomatic contacts, have come with a steep price tag.
Persistent reports have circulated in recent weeks that Pyongyang, since agreeing to resume official talks with Japan, has sought $5 billion in "reparations" from that country for Tokyo's brutal colonial past in Korea.
The United States, too, has often been put in a position where it has had to commit itself to helping ease North Korea's economic catastrophe -- through major food or fuel deliveries -- in exchange for Pyongyang's cooperation in suspending its nuclear weapons development or in halting the testing of its long-range missiles.
Mr. Kim's political rivals, feeling threatened by a dramatic diplomatic turnabout after weeks of campaigning against his "sunshine policy" toward the North as a fruitless sellout, today clung to the line that the coming summit meeting, with its hidden and presumably high costs, was no victory.
"The government must have paid a huge price, or agreed to some secret conditions to reach this deal, but that side has not been revealed," said Jan Kwang Keun, a spokesman for the Grand National Party, the main opposition group. "We want to remind people that such compensations involve taxpayers' money."
The public's reaction was more positive, but often came laden with complex sentiments and anxieties that are the legacy of a shared history of awful wartime violence, yield-no-quarter ideological jousting and harshly contrasting economic fates.
"Do you really think these countries will unify anytime soon?" asked Han Kyoung Ok, a 51-year-old woman who was preparing to board a train to Pusan at midday. "For people of my generation this is good news. But younger people have grown soft in this country, and now I fear that the northerners, who have lived through so much will out-compete us."
In part, her comments reflected the fact that in the span of her life -- roughly the period since June 1950, when the Korean War broke out -- Ms. Han has witnessed an extraordinary turnabout in the fortunes of the two countries.
For the first half of their separate histories after World War II, the Communist North, although more sparsely peopled, was by far the more prosperous of the two countries. But since the 1970's, and accelerating each year, South Korea has outstripped its neighbor, becoming one of the world's most energetic and entrepreneurial societies, while the Stalinist North, though still heavily armed, has flirted with economic collapse.
"I don't support unification, because things are nice the way they are now," said Hwang Ji Hwa, a 21-year-old woman, who spoke in downtown Seoul. "There are just too many differences between our countries. If we try to unify, things might get out of hand."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Park Jie Won, South Korea's culture minister, showing a picture of a secret meeting Saturday of North and South Korean envoys in Beijing. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLD WAR (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W KIM DAE JUNG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



279 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Sees Park as Star Player in Redevelopment

BYLINE: By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 10

 BODY:
Few major cities have talked more about or waited longer for a visible symbol of resurrection than this one, the nation's poorest.
Some of the patience will be rewarded on Tuesday with the inaugural game at Comerica Park, the new $300 million home of the Detroit Tigers baseball team and the showpiece of a burgeoning entertainment district in downtown Detroit. The stadium was built with city, county, state and private money, and was named for its corporate sponsor, Comerica Bank in Detroit. 
 City leaders are convinced that the ornate open-air stadium, with its synchronized fountains and 50-foot-high Ferris wheel, will pull investment, not to mention thousands of visitors, back downtown, just as Jacobs Field and Camden Yards transformed Cleveland and Baltimore.
Tigers officials are quietly picking out spots to display a World Series banner, should the Tigers bring home the championship, a feat this 99-year-old franchise has not accomplished since 1984. And the way the team is limping along, 1-5, fans will probably wait a while longer.
"We've endured a lot of rhetoric over the years," said Denise Illitch, daughter of the Tigers owner, Mike Illitch. "But this ballpark is real; it's proof things are changing."
Ms. Illitch is president of Olympia Development, which is handling projects surrounding Comerica Park. The Illitch family also owns the Detroit Red Wings hockey team, which plays at Joe Louis Arena on the city's waterfront.
Change is whirling all around the ballpark. Later this week, construction will begin on an $800 million office complex several blocks south that will become the headquarters of the Compuware Corporation, which makes software for managing corporate networks. The company is moving from Farmington Hills, Mich.
Just east of the stadium, construction crews are excavating the site of Ford Field, a brick-and-glass stadium with a dome, also costing about $300 million, that will sit alongside Comerica Park and bring the Detroit Lions football team back to the city for the first time in 26 years. The Lions, who now play in Pontiac, plan to open Ford Field in 2002.
Some of the three million people expected to visit Comerica Park this season will not be coming from the suburbs, as in the past. They'll walk. Forty-seven townhouses, with price tags of $140,000 to $250,000 are being built across the street, on land that for years had been used by prostitutes and drug users.
Signs advertising loft space pop up daily in the windows of deserted office buildings nearby.
But most surprising is the nightlife that has crept back, now that two of the three voter-approved casinos have opened temporary sites on the fringe of downtown. On most evenings the parking lots at the MGM Grand and the Motorcity Casino resemble those of suburban shopping malls. Eventually, the casinos will build near the waterfront.
Of course, no one here, not even the ever-jubilant Mayor Dennis Archer, is ready to proclaim Detroit completely reborn.
"We're still not where we want to be," Mr. Archer said recently.
Huge swaths of the city are dominated by weed-choked lots and abandoned houses. Some basic services like street lighting and bus service are still unreliable. That is why many Detroit residents say they are reluctant to believe that the city's renaissance will ever extend beyond downtown.
"It's absurd that we're spending hundreds of millions of dollars on a new ballpark when we can't keep our libraries open regular hours and our kids don't even have safe playgrounds," said Frank Rashid, a lifelong resident and founder of the Tiger Stadium Fan Club, which pleaded with city officials to revitalize Tiger Stadium. The famed ballpark sits empty about a mile from Comerica Park.
"This city is fixated on shortcuts to revitalization," Mr. Rashid said, relying on huge projects " that do nothing but deliver false promises."
Urban planning and economic experts agree.
"There really is no evidence that building a new sports stadium resurrects a downtown or a city," said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College. "In cities that are investing in several downtown projects all at once, there is additional activity, but it's mostly from the transfer of income and employment from surrounding communities into the downtown area. You rarely see a great spread effect."
Still, the mayor contended that Comerica Park was crucial to Detroit's comeback, if for no other reason than as an morale boost.
"Comerica Park will help restore the excitement of urban living that has been missing far too long from downtown Detroit," Mr. Archer said.
To be sure, Comerica Park was designed to dazzle. Life-size stone tigers and baseball bats guard the entrances. Inside the ballpark, children can ride a Ferris wheel with seats shaped like baseballs or a carousel featuring 30 handpainted tigers. The low-rise outfield stands are expected to be another attraction, with their postcard view of the city's skyline. Along the wall in left-center field are huge stainless steel statues of Hall of Fame players like Hank Greenberg, Ty Cobb and Charlie Gehringer. And the 10-story-tall scoreboard is the largest in baseball, the Tiger organization said.
As it is with most things, Comerica Park's grandeur comes at a price. Now that the team offers luxury seats, the price of an average home game ticket has doubled to $24.83, the fourth highest in baseball, according to Team Marketing Report.
But even that has done little to spoil this city's excitement.
"Detroit has lost so much and had to wait so long for something to be proud of," said 63-year-old Bernard Battistelli, a longtime Tiger fan, who typically attends 10 to 15 home games a year. "I'd rather pay a little extra than sit around another 10 years waiting for a rebirth."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detroit is pinning downtown redevelopment hopes on Comerica Park, which Arthur Eggleston cleaned in preparation for the Tigers' opening day. (Jim West/Impact Visuals, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (85%); CPWR (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT TIGERS COMERICA INC (85%); COMPUWARE CORP (82%); DETROIT TIGERS (95%); DETROIT TIGERS (95%); DETROIT RED WINGS (54%); DETROIT RED WINGS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS DETROIT TIGERS (95%); DETROIT TIGERS (95%); DETROIT RED WINGS (54%); DETROIT RED WINGS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMERICA PARK (BASEBALL STADIUM); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); SPORTS (67%); TRENDS (65%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M DENNIS ARCHER (59%); DENISE ILLITCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



280 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Microsoft Hires Lobbyist To Curry Favor With Bush
Microsoft has hired Ralph Reed, a senior consultant to Gov. George W. Bush's presidential campaign and a former head of the Christian Coalition, to lobby Mr. Bush in opposition to the government's antitrust case against the software giant.
 Microsoft's aim, the company says, is to curry favor with the apparent Republican presidential nominee, hoping he will speak out against the government's case -- and, perhaps, take a softer approach toward the company if he is elected president. Page A1. 

Motorola Posts Strong Earnings
Motorola, the telecommunications and semiconductor giant, reported another quarter of strong sales and profit growth, which could provide a lift to flagging technology stocks. Profit more than doubled, to $449 million, compared with $184 million in the quarter a year earlier. The results beat Wall Street forecasts by a penny a share. Before the results were announced, shares of Motorola fell $3, to $150, but climbed as high as $157 after hours. C2.
 
Wells Fargo to Buy First Security
Wells Fargo agreed to buy First Security for $2.9 billion in stock, less than two weeks after the collapse of First Security's planned merger with Zions Bancorporation. The deal will enable Wells Fargo to build its presence in Utah, where First Security is based. C7.
 
Mergers Increase 23% in Brazil
Fueled by a flurry of Internet takeovers, mergers and acquisitions in Brazil surged in the first quarter. The nation, Latin America's largest economy, had 65 transactions involving the acquisition of controlling stakes in medium to large companies, 23 percent more than in the first three months of last year. C4.
 
Fed Testing Alternatives to Checks
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that the central bank was moving to modernize its check-processing system and was testing new technologies but acknowledged that many Americans are still clinging to paper checks. C7.
 
Tokyo Urged to Redraw Bank Laws
In Japan, Hideyuki Aizawa, who heads the ruling party's Financial Issues Research Committee, is urging financial regulators to reconsider plans to issue banking licenses to nonbank companies like Sony, saying the banking laws first need to be redrawn. C4.
 
Privatization of Power Company Set
Legislators in the Philippines are set to vote this week on a bill that would privatize the heavily indebted national power company, a reform that the International Monetary Fund and other lenders have demanded before disbursing critical new loans. The House of Representatives is scheduled to begin voting today on the Power Reform Bill. President Joseph Estrada, above, and Manuel B. Villar, the House leader, both support the measure. C4.
 
Web Site Removes Microsoft Report
The Wall Street Journal's Web site posted and then removed a report that Microsoft might be forced to make the programming code for its Internet Explorer Web browser available to customers and computer makers. C8.
 
OPEC May Cut Back on Production
Less than two weeks after OPEC agreed to increase production to bring down the cost of oil, prices have fallen abruptly and are near the level at which the cartel had agreed it would then cut back its output. C12.
 
Profit Increases 19% at Gannett
Gannett, the publisher of USA Today an 73 other daily papers, said that first-quarter profit rose 19 percent because of increased advertising sales and lower newsprint prices. C10.
 
Approval Urged for Rival of Viagra
Uprima, made by TAP Pharmaceuticals, may soon be cutting into Viagra's impotence-drug market after government advisers recommended that the tablet be approved for sale to the public despite some side effects. A20.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,186.56 up 75.08
Nasdaq composite -- 4,188.20 down 258.25
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.66% down 0.04
The euro -- $0.9616 up 0.0071
The dollar -- 106.47 yen up 1.09
 
Graph shows Motorola share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); ZION (NASDAQ) (68%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); ZIONS BANCORP (68%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); UTAH, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BANKING LAW (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); WEB SITES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (64%); COMPUTER MAKERS (64%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (60%); INTERNET BROWSERS (60%); ENERGY REGULATION (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



281 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Doing Lunch to Reinforce His Support Among Women

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani began a series of statewide "Women for Rudy" lunches yesterday to reinforce his support among Republican female voters, a group that has largely remained loyal as polls show that the mayor's reaction to the shooting of Patrick M. Dorismond has caused a drop in his support among men.
At the first lunch, at the Women's National Republican Club in Manhattan yesterday, Mr. Giuliani received a hero's welcome from 250 guests, many of whom said that Mr. Giuliani's fight against crime had made them feel safer and that his economic policies had made them prosper. 
 But as he has in the past before similar groups, the mayor did not specifically mention women's issues. Instead, he delivered his standard speech about what he considers the Giuliani renaissance of New York City, and only occasionally alluded to his Senate opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
"Everybody that used to run the city," Mr. Giuliani said to murmurs of approval, "and used to run the city with the high crime rates and the big welfare rates, and used to run the city when it was called ungovernable, all of those people support my opponent, right? Every single one of them! They used to run the city, they support my opponent. What does that tell you about ideas, ideologies, issues?
"Now, we've done something different. We've changed it. Lots of people don't like that. Lots of people are embarrassed by it. I'm proud of it."
At a news briefing afterward at City Hall, Mr. Giuliani said that he had deliberately avoided speaking specifically about women. "I don't consider women voters different than men voters," he said. "They're the same to me."
He added that "white voters and black voters are the same."
"Catholic, Jewish, Protestant, Russian Orthodox, outside of Russia, Muslim voters," he said, "they're all the same to me." His approach, he said, had helped move the city away from its emphasis on "vast and intricate subcultures."
In a clear reference to Mrs. Clinton, he added that women support him because "they don't feel that I have some kind of pandering group of views that say, 'Oh, gee, you know in front of a white audience I'm going to say one thing, in front of a black audience I'm going to say another thing, in front of a women's audience I'm going to say a third thing.' "
Mrs. Clinton, who leads the mayor 49 percent to 41 percent in a New York Times/CBS News poll of 1,573 respondents conducted this month, also leads among women over all, 52 percent to 38 percent. Her support among women is statistically unchanged from a similar Times/CBS News poll conducted in February, before the police shooting of Mr. Dorismond, when Mrs. Clinton led Mr. Giuliani among women voters, 50 percent to 38 percent.
But the poll showed that Mr. Giuliani's support among men had dropped in the same time period. In February, Mr. Giuliani led Mrs. Clinton among men over all, 54 percent to 37 percent. By April, it was Mrs. Clinton who was leading among men, 46 percent to 43 percent.
The poll showed that one of the mayor's biggest declines in support was among independent men, who supported him, 62 percent to 26 percent, over Mrs. Clinton in February. By April, they were supporting him by 47 percent to 32 percent, a net drop of 15 points.
At yesterday's lunch at the Women's National Republican Club, a number of guests characterized Mr. Giuliani's attacks on Mr. Dorismond as merely impolitic.
"Perhaps his choice of words wasn't clear," said Jennifer Duncan, 31, of Rocky Point, on Long Island, who works as a hotel catering manager in Manhattan. "Just listen to him. He's an intelligent man. He certainly wouldn't want an innocent gentleman killed."
Others said the mayor's record on crime was his most attractive attribute. "I was mugged when I first came to Manhattan, and it's a much safer city because of him," said Carol Nobbs, 53, a New York City real estate broker.
Mr. Giuliani's criticism of Mr. Dorismond, she said, did not bother her. "He was defending himself," she said of the mayor.
Tomorrow, Mr. Giuliani is to attend a "Women for Rudy" lunch in Rochester and then what his advisers are calling a "women's town hall meeting" in Buffalo. On Thursday, Mr. Giuliani is to attend a "Women for Rudy" lunch in Mineola.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani seated with Irene H. Impellizzeri, a school board member. The woman standing with them was not identified. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CLUB (57%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CLUB (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) WOMEN'S NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CLUB (57%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CLUB (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; WOMEN; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); WOMEN (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CRIME RATES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); RELIGION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM RUDY GIULIANI (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



282 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Officials Pledge Funds For Projects Along Hudson

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: WEST POINT, N.Y., April 10

 BODY:
In an effort to revive ailing towns and preserve farms along the Hudson River, federal housing and agriculture officials said today that they would focus more than $50 million in loans and grants over the next two years on projects that spur the region's economy while improving its environment.
In contrast to most federal offers of money for development aimed at solving a local problem, the effort would give preference to projects whose impact spans several municipalities or counties, said Andrew M. Cuomo, the housing secretary, at a meeting of about 150 officials and business owners from the area. 
 The goal, he said, is to use the competition for aid to spur cooperative planning in a state where local governments usually act independently -- and often at cross purposes. "If you want to win, you must come up with a regional plan which gets outside of your boundaries," he said.
Mr. Cuomo said he hoped the valley would follow the path already taken by several other parts of the country that have shifted to a regional strategy for economic growth, including western Kentucky and the Research Triangle Park area of North Carolina.
The Hudson River project is modeled on a similar 1997 effort for communities along the Erie Canal that used federal money to encourage tourism and new businesses, Mr. Cuomo said.
He cited a 1999 Cornell University study that showed that the Canal Corridor Initiative, as the previous effort was called, had so far funneled $400 million in federal loans and grants to communities along the 524-mile waterway, while generating an equal amount of private investment and creating twice as many jobs as had been initially predicted.
As they outlined the Hudson Valley plan, Mr. Cuomo and Dan Glickman, agriculture secretary, were flanked by New York congressmen of both political parties, including Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, a Republican whose district stretches from the suburbs of Westchester to the Borscht Belt in the Catskills.
Mr. Gilman predicted that communities around the valley would find ways to take advantage of the program.
Mr. Cuomo cited recent surveys of New York's economy showing that most of the Hudson Valley has not shared in the protracted economic boom.
For example, he said, federal surveys of wages showed that from 1990 to 1997, while the average weekly wage in the state rose 9 percent to $467 from $424, the average weekly paycheck for the rest of the Hudson Valley fell 1 percent, to $355 from $361.
The project outlined today included a variety of grants and loans aimed at both urban renewal and rural preservation around the region.
Up to $20 million in grants from the housing agency will be doled out over the next two years for proposals that foster regional planning, Mr. Cuomo said. The deadline for proposals is May 24, he said.
Housing officials said recent examples of federally-supported local projects that have had a broadly beneficial impact were a park, museum and marinas along the Erie Canal, which created a network of stopping points for boaters, and an existing proposal for a ferry linking Ossining and Haverstraw, which sit on opposite sides of the lower Hudson River.
The grants can be sought by communities across the country, Mr. Cuomo said, but he added that the Hudson Valley was one of only a few areas where several municipalities could easily create a suitable project with shared benefits.
He cited a recent economic partnership between Kingston and Newburgh, two Hudson River cities that faced high unemployment and loss of industry, as an example of the kind of collaboration the agency was seeking to support.
In a separate but coordinated effort, the agriculture department is offering $30 million over the next two years to projects up and down the valley that help sustain the farming economy, Mr. Glickman said.
In addition, the housing agency is offering loans for business development that could bring the total targeted support for the region to $80 million, Mr. Cuomo said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); RIVERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); SUBURBS (71%); MOUNTAINS (67%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (64%); POLITICS (62%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C ANDREW CUOMO (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



283 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Iridium, Bankrupt, Is Planning a Fiery Ending for Its 88 Satellites

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 10

 BODY:
The jokes about the government using the satellites for "Star Wars" target practice don't seem so funny anymore.
In the coming months, Iridium L.L.C., the bankrupt global satellite telephone company, will begin sending 88 giant satellites spiraling toward Earth, ending one of the colossal corporate failures in recent memory. 
 After spending more than $5 billion on a system that promised to communicate "with anyone, anytime, virtually anywhere in the world," Iridium could muster only about 55,000 subscribers, not enough even to pay interest on its start-up costs.
The company's shares plummeted months ago, and banks, bondholders and investors are left to wince at their staggering losses. Motorola, which started it all, has written off more than $2.5 billion.
And now, the company finds itself fumbling through a messy, sometimes comic liquidation. Customers are angry, half the system is shut down, the other half is apparently still operating, and Iridium is still holding out the hope that someone will buy the satellite network before it goes up in flames.
One thing is clear, though: rarely has a company so ambitious, and so heavily financed, fallen so hard and so quickly. "It was a technology that didn't live up to its hype or its billing," said James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, who has chronicled Iridium's problems, noting that the telephones could not even be used indoors. "People chose to overlook the risks because they were bedazzled by the technology and the promoters or sponsors."
Two satellite networks are trying to keep the idea alive: ICO Global Telecommunications, which is trying to climb out of bankruptcy under its new owner, Craig O. McCaw, the cellular phone pioneer; and Globalstar L.L.C., the venture backed by Loral Space and Communications and led by Bernard Schwartz, who once called Iridium a "three-legged racehorse."
But as they do, here is what it looks like to shut down a global satellite service that officially lasted 474 days.
According to Motorola, whose engineers conceived the idea in the Arizona desert in 1987, long development time and poor marketing hurt the project.
"This was a technology that worked," said Scott Wyman, a spokesman for Motorola, at headquarters in Schaumburg, Ill., near Chicago. "But Iridium management pursued a marketing plan that in retrospect may not have been targeted at the most attractive available market."
Iridium itself has little to say, with all calls referred to the deputy general counsel. The chief executive resigned quietly on March 17 -- the day Iridium, in a letter to subscribers, declared itself dead.
Now, under the scrutiny of a bankruptcy judge, a few remaining executives, lawyers and accountants are trying to safely dismantle a service that took 12 years to create, and less than two to destroy.
The company has vacated its Washington headquarters, tried to sell its building in Landsdowne, Va., held a job fair for employees, and talked to the United States Space Command Center in Colorado Springs about the proper time to dispose of a constellation of low-earth-orbit satellites traveling at 17,000 miles an hour. While a few executives hold out hope that someone might buy the satellites, this seems increasingly unlikely.
A few loyal subscribers still get free service. Motorola sent out notices saying that service would end at 11:59 p.m. on March 17. But the company continues to offer limited service, largely because the federal government, an early investor, is still trying to wean itself away from the global network.
Some of those who lost service are not happy. For Jack Conroy, who flies an ambulance helicopter in Anchorage, Iridium phones were a lifeline. "Communications up here is real difficult," he said. "If I'm in a canyon, it's hard to get service. With Iridium, you could."
The death knell was actually sounded more than a month ago, when Mr. McCaw decided against bailing out the company and creating a larger satellite network with ICO Global.
On March 2, Ronald Brouckman, Iridium's chief operating officer, briefed the staff on what life would be like once Mr. McCaw took over. But later that night, an employee said, "McCaw called our C.O.O. and said, 'I've changed my mind.' "
Many employees were already demoralized. In the final months, they say, John Richardson, the chief executive, rarely showed up at headquarters. Mr. Richardson, a former executive at Barclays Bank, was unavailable for comment.
Many who held on were dubbed "Iridiots," and they felt that way. Employees say they often sat in quiet offices playing computer solitaire or perfecting their Microsoft PowerPoint presentations.
"The whole thing was surreal," a former employee said. "We were just waiting for the clock to run out."
Motorola has stopped making Iridium phones at its Libertyville, Ill., plant and has closed its satellite communications division in Phoenix.
Eleven independent gateway companies that sold service around the world are being dismantled. Iridium North America, whose investors besides Motorola included Sprint and BCE of Canada, had 30,000 subscribers at its peak. The company, based in Chandler, Ariz., is offering free service until Motorola pulls the plug, but has trimmed its staff to 30 from 175.
The Defense Department, which had a $200 million contract to participate in the project, also continues to use the service. It says it spent $140 million building its own gateway in Hawaii and paying Motorola to run it, and buying 3,000 satellite handsets. Now, the Pentagon is looking for alternatives. "We're going to have to evaluate our next step," a Defense Department spokeswoman, Susan Hanson, said.
The Iridium network is controlled by the Satellite Network Operations Center, in Landsdowne, which is operated by Motorola. About 100 staff members are still on hand, monitoring the satellites, taking calls and coordinating with the Space Command Center to bring the satellites down.
The command center, a sort of traffic cop that tracks objects in space, including tiny debris, will essentially offer guidance to Motorola about where and when to take the satellites out of orbit.
"We're actively tracking 8,200 objects -- 8,120 to be exact," said Capt. Steven Ramsay. "We even track an astronaut's glove from a Gemini mission in the 1960's."
According to the Space Command Center, Iridium will probably drop the the satellites out of orbit four at a time, firing their thrusters to drop them into the atmosphere, where they will most likely burn up. But "they expect to have some parts survive because these are pretty big satellites," a spokesman, Maj. Perry Nouis, said. It took 12 years and more than 20 million lines of computer code to build the system, but less than two years to realize that not enough people wanted to use it. It will take two years more to pull the satellites out of orbit, the space command said.
Iridium has few other assets, with a skeleton staff of about 30 employees -- mostly accountants, lawyers and technicians. After Mr. McCaw pulled out, Iridium told the bankruptcy court that no one had put up the $10 million necessary to qualify as a serious bidder, and laid off 175 people.
There were plenty of inquiries, but some seemed almost comical. Some did not have the money, Iridium officials say, others did not have even a proper telephone number. They keep coming. "I still get 50 calls a day," said Robert N. Beury, Itidium's deputy general counsel. "Some people want to go up with space tugs, and move the things somewhere else."
Looking back, no one can make sense of it. Wall Street loved Iridium; there were supposed to be 1.6 million subscribers this year, and 27 million by 2007. Sure, there were bulky handsets, technical glitches and a poor marketing effort, analysts say, but how could they have been this wrong?
Easy, others say. A large part of the system appealed to people in remote regions. "Everyone in the industry has looked at Iridium as the pioneers of satellite phone service," said Rikki Lee, editor of Wireless Week. "And when they couldn't find anyone to pay $3,000 for a phone and $7 a minute for service, it was like -- duh! There aren't all that many people who trek up to the North Pole."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Satellites built for Iridium's system by Motorola were controlled by people like Bill Greenen, foreground, and Alex Pescaru. (Scott Troyanos for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%); LORL (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: IRIDIUM LLC; MOTOROLA INC IRIDIUM LLC (91%); LORAL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRIDIUM LLC; MOTOROLA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SATELLITES; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BONDS (70%); MARKETING PLAN (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); LAWYERS (60%); JUDGES (60%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID CRAIG O MCCAW (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



284 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Judge Holds City Liable for White Officer's Shooting of a Black Officer

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
A judge ruled yesterday that New York City is liable for the actions of a white off-duty police officer who mistakenly shot a black undercover officer on a crowded Manhattan subway platform in 1994. The judge, Acting Justice Kibbie F. Payne of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, said a jury should determine how much the city should pay the wounded officer in damages.
Yesterday's ruling was unusual because in most cases judges let juries decide whether a defendant is liable. But with his decision, Justice Payne ruled that the evidence in the case was so strong and the legal precedent underlying it so clear that he could declare the city liable without a trial. 
 The wounded officer, Desmond Robinson, who has since left the police force, filed a $50 million lawsuit against the city after the 1994 shooting, which prompted debate about racial bias in the city police force.
Mr. Robinson's lawyer, Brian O'Dwyer, hailed yesterday's ruling as proof that the city will be held accountable for police officers' actions. He also said it demonstrated the need for more racial sensitivity training of city police officers.
Mr. O'Dwyer said that despite what he called years of effort by the city "to spin this away, the judge found that the city was totally and absolutely responsible for the assault on Desmond Robinson. The black officers' association over the years had offered sensitivity training to the Police Department, and it was turned down as unneeded. If anything, this case shows how needed it was."
The shooting happened on August 22, 1994, in a Midtown subway station, when Officer Peter Del-Debbio, who is white, fired five rounds at Officer Robinson, who is black, as they both hunted for a gunman on a subway platform. Officer Del-Debbio said he fired at Officer Robinson, an undercover officer who had drawn his gun, because he thought Officer Robinson was a criminal running toward him.
But a Manhattan jury convicted Mr. Del-Debbio of second-degree assault in 1996, finding that he had used excessive force when he fired at Officer Robinson and struck him four times in the back. Mr. Del-Debbio admitted pausing between firing his first two shots and his last three. He was sentenced to five years' probation and 200 hours of community service.
In his ruling, Justice Payne said that the criminal conviction proved that Mr. Del-Debbio, who was subsequently dismissed from the force, was legally negligent in the shooting. And he ruled that a city requirement that off-duty officers carry their weapons meant that Mr. Del-Debbio, although he was off-duty, was acting as a city employee when he fired the shots.
Legal experts said yesterday that it was routine for a judge to find that a criminal conviction proves an individual's liability in a civil suit.
The decision was a setback for the city, they said, because the judge also ruled that the fact that Mr. Del-Debbio was off-duty and not following police procedure did not release the city from liability.
Lorna Bade Goodman, a spokeswoman for the city corporation counsel's office, said city lawyers were studying the ruling and deciding whether to appeal it.
Stephen Worth, the lawyer representing Officer Del-Debbio, said he had not yet seen the ruling and could not comment.
Mr. Robinson's wounds prevented him from returning to the transit police, according to his lawyer. A bullet lodged in his back is too close to his spine to be removed and forces him to limp.
In 1996, Mr. Robinson pleaded guilty in a plea bargain to a misdemeanor charge of assaulting a female officer who had counseled him during his recovery from the shooting.
Since then, Mr. Robinson has married and is the father of a small child, Mr. O'Dwyer, his lawyer, said. After being unemployed for several years, Mr. Robinson has worked as a car salesman for the last six months, Mr. O'Dwyer said.
The ruling came after a series of police shootings that have heightened tensions in the city.
The shootings of two unarmed black men, Malcolm M. Ferguson and Patrick Dorismond, by city narcotics detectives have prompted protests in recent weeks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Del-Debbio was convicted of second-degree assault in 1996. (Pool Photo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: OFFICER DEL-DEBBIO (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BLACKS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT JUDGES (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); DAMAGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); PROBATION (78%); NEGLIGENCE (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); CIVIL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); MISCONDUCT (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (70%); DISMISSALS (68%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (60%); 

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID; PAYNE, KIBBIE F (JUSTICE); DEL-DEBBIO, PETER (POLICE OFFICER); ROBINSON, DESMOND (POLICE OFFICER) DAVID L PAYNE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



285 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Peru Tally Prompts Fear Of Anti-Fujimori Protests
Official returns showed President Alberto K. Fujimori approaching a first-round victory in presidential elections, prompting cries of fraud and fears of disturbances. With 56.4 percent of the vote counted, the National Election Office said, Mr. Fujimori was leading his challenger by 49.6 percent to 40.6 percent. A1 

A Withdrawal in Bolivia
An international consortium quit a planned $200 million waterworks project after violent protests over a bill to impose water charges. A12
 
China Assails U.S. Response
China rejected the American explanation for the bombing of its embassy in Belgrade during the Yugoslavia campaign and again demanded a "thorough and comprehensive" investigation. But American officials, citing the firing of one C.I.A. officer and the punishment of six others, declared the matter closed. A6
 
Koreans Look to Meeting
An unusual catalog of emotions -- shock, relief, wariness -- were on display as South Koreans learned that their president would go to North Korea in June for their country's first summit meeting with the leader of the Communist North. A6
 
Tokyo Official Raises Furor
The governor of Tokyo, Shintaro Ishihara, drew criticism for saying that immigrants in Japan -- taken to mean mainly Koreans and Chinese -- could be expected to riot after a major earthquake. A6
 
U.S. Bracing for Protests
Local and federal law-enforcement agencies in Washington are preparing for mass rallies this week against global economics. A5
 
Russian Moving on Arms Treaty
President-elect Vladimir V. Putin, in the first major test of a new and more centrist parliamentary majority, reached agreement with legislative allies to bring a long-delayed nuclear arms reduction treaty to a ratification vote as early as Friday. A14
 
New Leader for German Party
Angela Merkel, 45, was elected leader of the Christian Democrats, who face a crisis over their party's finances and identity. A14
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A18-26
 
U.S. Set to Order Relatives To Hand Over Cuban Boy
Justice Department officials prepared to present Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives with a letter telling them how they should hand him over to federal officials tomorrow or Thursday so that he could be transferred to his father's custody. A22
 
Ruling on Jailed Immigrants
Hundreds of illegal immigrants in nine Western states who have completed prison terms for crimes in this country must be freed until the United States can persuade their homelands to take them back, a federal appeals court ruled. A25
 
Differing on Whistle-Blower
The Labor Department says Pacific Gas and Electric maneuvered to have psychiatrists find "paranoid delusions" in a manager who had publicly complained about safety problems the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant. But the Nuclear Regulatory Commission says it found no evidence of retaliation. A27
 
Complaint Against First Lady
The disciplinary arm of the Arkansas Supreme Court, already looking into a complaint seeking to disbar President Clinton, said it would review one against Hillary Rodham Clinton involving Whitewater. A26
 
Airport Delays in Washington
A power failure prevented takeoffs and landings at Reagan National Airport last night, forcing planes to divert to Dulles International. Airlines said it was unclear how schedules would be affected today. A20
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Unintended Effects of Vitamins
Large doses of vitamins C and E and selenium can be harmful, according to a report by the Institute of Medicine, a branch of the National Academy of Sciences. A20
 
Backing for Impotence Drug
An F.D.A. advisory panel recommended that a new tablet to counter impotence, Uprima, be approved for sale despite its side effects. A21
 
Rivals Doubt Genome Claim
Leaders of the public consortium racing to decode the human genome expressed doubts that their rival, the Celera Corporation, could meet its timetable. A27
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Legal Aid Agency In Fight for Financing
Legal Services for New York City, a nonprofit agency that provides legal representation in civil cases for almost 20,000 poor New Yorkers each year, has been threatened with a loss of federal financing in a dispute over its record-keeping. B3
 
Con Ed Sued Over Blackout
A group of 100 small businesses in Washington Heights filed suit against Con Edison, contending that their companies had suffered because the utility's neglect caused a blackout in July 1999. B3
 
City Held Liable in Shooting
A Manhattan judge ruled that New York City is liable for the actions of a white off-duty police officer who mistakenly shot and wounded a black undercover officer on a crowded Manhattan subway platform in 1994. B4
 
Women's Support Sought
Mayor Giuliani began a series of statewide "Women for Rudy" lunches to reinforce his support among Republican female voters, a group that has largely remained loyal as polls show that the mayor's reaction to the Patrick Dorismond shooting has caused a drop-off in his support among men. B5
 
Senator John McCain suggested that Hillary Rodham Clinton would be a "star" on the order of Robert F. Kennedy if she were elected to the Senate, though he emphasized that he still supported Mayor Giuliani. B5
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Yanks Postpone Opener
Ominous weather forecasts for today prompted the Yankees to move their opening game at Yankee Stadium to tomorrow. D2
 
OBITUARIES B10
 
EDUCATION
 
Seeking Chancellor's Post
Harold O. Levy, New York City's interim schools chancellor, has been persuaded to declare his candidacy for the long-term position of chancellor, school system officials said. B1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
A New Microsoft Lobbyist
Microsoft has hired Ralph Reed, a senior consultant to Gov. George W. Bush's presidential campaign and the former head of the Christian Coalition, to lobby Mr. Bush in opposition to the government's antitrust case. A1
 
Another Sell-Off in Technology
The Nasdaq plunged 258.25 points, or 5.8 percent, to 4,188.20, and the S.& P. 500 slid 11.89 points, to 1,504.46. But the Dow rose 75.08 points, to 11,186.56. C1
 
After trading ended, Motorola reported another quarter of strong sales and profit growth, which could buttress technology stocks. C2
 
Wells Fargo Buying Utah Bank
Wells Fargo agreed to buy First Security for $2.9 billion, less than two weeks after First Security's merger with Zions Bancorporation collapsed. The deal will help Wells Fargo build its presence in fast-growing Utah. C7
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B11
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Breaking the ice in Korea; drug prices and Medicare; a broader audience for the court; blame in the Chinese Embassy bombing.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E7
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D7
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (53%); PCG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SERBIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (53%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SERBIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PARANOIA (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (77%); RIOTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); POWER PLANTS (63%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (61%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); APPEALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



286 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3927 words

HEADLINE: Hole in Gun Control Law Lets Mentally Ill Through

SERIES: RAMPAGE KILLERS -- Third of four articles: Getting Guns

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD; Reporting for this series was by Fox Butterfield, Ford Fessenden, William Glaberson and Laurie Goodstein, with research assistance from Anthony Zirilli and other members of the news research staff of The New York Times.

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY

 BODY:
With the voices inside her head ordering her to kill, Lisa Duy walked into Doug's Shoot'n Sports here to buy a Smith & Wesson 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol.
For Doug's, the biggest gun store in Utah, the transaction was routine. The manager, Dave Larsen, called the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification to run a background check on Ms. Duy, and the agency quickly approved the sale, having found no record of felony convictions or mental illness. In the basement shooting range, Mr. Larsen showed Ms. Duy, 24 and unemployed, how to hold and fire the heavy stainless-steel gun. The only thing unusual, he thought, was that as she left the store, headed for the bus stop outside, she was wearing the shooting-range ear protectors he had lent her. 
 Less than two hours after leaving Doug's, on Jan. 14, 1999, Ms. Duy, ear protectors still in place, walked into the studios of television station KSL a few blocks from the Mormon Temple and began firing her new weapon. She shot more than four dozen times in all, killing a young mother and wounding the building manager.
What the background check had been unable to detect was that Ms. Duy (pronounced dwee) had a long history of psychiatric problems, had in fact been found to be suffering from paranoid schizophrenia and, only a year before the check, had been committed to a mental hospital by a judge after threatening to kill an F.B.I. agent, an encounter that sprang from her delusions that the station was broadcasting information about her sex life.
Of the 100 episodes of rampage killings examined for this series by The New York Times, none better illustrates than the case of Lisa Duy just how difficult it can be to enforce a key provision of the nation's fundamental gun control law. That provision prohibits people who have been involuntarily committed to mental institutions from buying a handgun. But laws in most states guard the privacy of the mentally ill, and to protect them from stigma these statutes generally bar law-enforcement agencies from access to mental health records.
As a result, gun background checks of people with psychiatric problems typically fail to turn up their mental health history, a loophole that has contributed to the wave of school and workplace shootings of the last decade. In the 100 cases reviewed by The Times, the vast majority of them from the last 10 years, half the killers were people with a history of serious mental health problems, and at least eight had been involuntarily committed.
Now, fueled by those shootings, there is a growing debate pitting public-safety concerns against the rights of the mentally ill. This March, in the wake of the Duy shooting and another like it in April 1999, Utah became one of the few states that give law-enforcement agencies mental health information for background checks on prospective gun buyers. Connecticut acted similarly last fall, after a state lottery employee with a history of depression and psychiatric hospitalization killed four of his bosses and committed suicide in 1998.
 
The Loophole
Lisa Duy Lied, And No One Knew
The provision that bars handgun purchases by people who have ever been involuntarily committed is more than 30 years old, dating from adoption of the sweeping federal Gun Control Act of 1968. These are frequently the most disturbed people, those forced into hospitals because courts have determined that they may harm themselves or others.
But the provision is usually meaningless: over the years, the National Rifle Association, mental health advocates and civil liberties groups have found themselves on the same side of this issue, fighting independently to keep agencies that conduct background checks from gaining access to information about who has been committed. At the time of her rampage, it was against the law in Utah for the court that had committed Ms. Duy to tell a law-enforcement agency.
Even the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which conducts background checks for the majority of states, has mental health records only on people treated in Veterans Affairs hospitals, plus an assortment of 41 other individuals, among its data on some 40 million people that the bureau now keeps for its system of national instant criminal background checks.
So when Ms. Duy, completing a mandatory federal handgun application, answered no to a question asking whether she had ever been committed, the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification had no mental health records in its database to catch her lie.
"I don't understand how Lisa could buy a gun," said her mother, Khanh Duy, who immigrated with the family from Vietnam by way of their ancestral China in 1980, when Lisa was a little girl.
"Lisa is a good girl," Mrs. Duy said. "But she heard voices, and she had been in the hospital."
Another case in which a person who had been involuntarily hospitalized was able to buy a gun despite the federal law, and went on to kill with it, was that of Gracie Verduzco, a 35-year-old paranoid schizophrenic who believed she had a transmitter in her left ear that received messages from a satellite. Ms. Verduzco had been committed to mental hospitals three times, by judges in both Arizona and, after she had threatened President Clinton, the District of Columbia. Yet she was able to buy a .38-caliber revolver at a pawnshop in Tucson, and she used it to kill one person and wound four others at a post office and on a highway there on May 21, 1998.
And near Atlanta, James Calvin Brady, a black man who believed a machine had been implanted in his stomach that told him to kill white people, walked out of the Georgia Regional Hospital, where he had been involuntarily committed, and the same day bought a .38-caliber revolver at a pawnshop. The next day, April 25, 1990, he killed one person and wounded four at a shopping mall.
Both Ms. Verduzco and Mr. Brady lied on their gun applications in denying involuntary commitment, and there was no information to catch them.
The conflict between the rights of the mentally ill and the screening that would help keep guns out of their reach can be a wrenching one. Vicki Cottrell, executive director of the Utah branch of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, an organization of families of the disturbed, has a daughter with schizophrenia who, like Ms. Duy, heard voices. One day the voices told her to kill her mother, as a sacrifice to silence them. The daughter's psychiatrist called the police, who arrested her.
"We family members have a real dilemma," Ms. Cottrell said. "I used to lie awake at night worrying my daughter would buy a gun and carry out her delusions. So I think people who have been involuntarily committed should be in the computer for gun checks. But we have to be very careful we don't add to the stigma against mental illness and make people afraid to seek treatment."
According to a Justice Department study, about 150,000 people a year are committed to mental institutions by court order in the United States, where there are now perhaps 2.7 million people who have been involuntarily committed at some point in their lives and are therefore barred by the federal law from buying a handgun.
Few of these people commit murder, of course, and shootings by the mentally ill account for only a tiny fraction of all homicides. Indeed, recent studies have shown that the mentally ill are no more violent than other people -- except in two circumstances: when they are off their medications or have been abusing drugs or alcohol.
In any case, highly publicized workplace and school shootings have now led the authorities in nine states, including Connecticut and New Jersey but not New York, to give their law-enforcement agencies some form of access to mental health records. Officials in those states say they have been surprised at the number of previously committed people who try to buy guns.
In Illinois, for instance, 3,699 people who applied for a gun card -- the first step in buying a handgun there -- were turned down from 1996 to 1998 when records showed they had been either voluntarily or involuntarily committed within the last five years, the legal test under Illinois law, said Tim Da Rosa, deputy director of the state police. An additional 5,585 people who were hospitalized from 1996 to 1998 were found to already possess gun permits, which as a result were revoked.
But at the national level, as in most states, there has been no comparable effort to create access to court commitment records for gun checks. That lack of action is in stark contrast to the long effort by gun control groups and the Clinton administration in winning enactment of the Brady law to create databases screening out convicted felons, who, like the involuntarily committed, were barred by the 1968 law from handgun purchases.
Some gun control advocates say privately that addressing the issue is simply too touchy a matter. They do not want to have to fight on two flanks at once, confronting liberals who support the rights of the mentally ill while battling conservatives who back the N.R.A.
One such advocate for the mentally ill is Michael Faenza, president of the National Mental Health Association, who said that despite The Times's finding that a number of the killers in the cases it reviewed had been able to buy guns despite having been involuntarily hospitalized, he was opposed to any law that would provide records on involuntary commitments for gun background checks.
"People with mental illnesses," Mr. Faenza said, "should not be discriminated against in any way. If you did that, you would not reduce the violence, only create more stigma."
 
The Woman
Voices of Torment, Hints of Rampage
Lisa Duy is a case study in how even a long record of psychosis, arrest, assault, threats to kill and court-ordered hospitalization may not be enough to stop a person from buying a gun. In Utah, no one, neither Ms. Duy's psychiatrists nor her lawyers, not judges, the police or prosecutors, knew her full story. It is this:
Until high school, young Lisa seemed to flourish. Then, in the 10th grade, she started to hear voices telling her that other students were spreading humiliating rumors about her sexual proclivities.
Late adolescence is a common age for onset of schizophrenia, and as Lisa got older, the voices grew more tormenting, threatening to hurt her. She began to have trouble focusing during conversation, unable to distinguish between what people were actually telling her and what the voices were saying.
Schizophrenia, a disease that doctors believe has a strong genetic component, had already been diagnosed in two of Lisa's older sisters, and she began to worry that she too might be mentally ill.
In 1994, during her sophomore year at the University of Utah, her mother finally took her to the emergency room of the university hospital. There she reported that the voices made it hard to sleep, caused burning in her head and had once led her to try to stab herself in the heart to silence them, according to a later report by a psychologist, Stephen L. Golding, included in court records in the shooting case.
The doctors sent her to Valley Mental Health, Utah's largest public mental health network, where she was placed on Mellaril, an antipsychotic drug used to treat schizophrenia, and on an antidepressant.
As doctors later acknowledged in reports related to the shooting, Mellaril has strong side effects, and Ms. Duy suffered from increased agitation as well as rapid involuntary movement of her arms and legs. Besides, the medicine did not stop the voices, and so she often quit taking it. (Mellaril did have one virtue, notes Ms. Cottrell, of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill: it is much cheaper than newer, more effective and less troublesome antipsychotic drugs, and so Utah law requires that it be given to indigent patients like Ms. Duy who require such medication.)
On Oct. 7, 1996, the police in West Valley City, a Salt Lake suburb, got a call from a rock radio station, which said a woman holding a stick was standing outside the studio and insisting that a disc jockey nicknamed Steve Wonder was stalking her. Officer Mark VanRoosendaal arrived to find Ms. Duy's face rigid with anger. Steve Wonder, she said, had placed a camera inside her house and could read her mind. Not only that, he followed her everywhere, broadcasting secret information about her, and had tried to run her off the road.
Ms. Duy demanded to see the disc jockey, not realizing he had been standing next to her during the police interview. When Ms. Duy refused to leave and began hitting and kicking Officer VanRoosendaal and his partner, they arrested her. "Just shoot me," she said, according to their report.
She was charged with stalking, disorderly conduct, assault, interfering with a police officer and carrying a concealed weapon, a kitchen knife the police found in her back pocket.
The charges were only misdemeanors, and, given her mental condition, a psychologist raised questions about Ms. Duy's competence to stand trial. The assistant West Valley City attorney handling the case, John Huber, did not see any benefit to trying her, he said in an interview.
So he proposed a form of probation: a "diversion agreement" stipulated that if Ms. Duy sought mental health treatment and avoided further trouble, all the charges would be dismissed in two years.
When the two years were up, in November 1998, a secretary in Mr. Huber's office checked to see if there were any further criminal charges against Ms. Duy. The Bureau of Criminal Identification showed none, and so the charges were dismissed.
It was two months before the shooting at the television station.
What Mr. Huber's office and the judge presiding over her case did not know was that in the intervening period, in December 1997, Ms. Duy had threatened to kill an F.B.I. agent after he declined to help her stop what she maintained were broadcasts by the radio and television stations about her sex life. The bureau investigated her, found that she had psychiatric problems and had her doctors arrange for her to be picked up, an F.B.I. official said.
Ms. Duy was taken to the Neuropsychiatric Institute of the University of Utah, a high-security hospital. After psychiatrists there found that she was a danger to others -- the diagnosis was chronic paranoid schizophrenia -- Mike Evans, a mental health commissioner who acts as a civil court judge, committed her for 90 days.
When the commitment period was up, Valley Mental Health went to court to get it extended, arguing that Ms. Duy was still a danger to others and would stop taking her medication, said Jed Ericksen, the assistant director of adult services. But Commissioner Evans refused, saying that after treatment, she no longer appeared to pose an immediate danger to others, Mr. Ericksen recalled. Ms. Duy's case file was sealed in accordance with privacy provisions of Utah law, said Kim Zacherson, a clerk for Commissioner Evans. The commissioner declined to discuss the case.
"If we had known about the threat against the F.B.I. and about her court-ordered hospitalization, we would have taken it seriously," said Mr. Huber, now the chief West Valley City attorney. "She was in violation of the diversion agreement, so we would have reinstated our prosecution. And because of her mental condition, we would probably have ended up seeking a further court commitment, showing her pattern of dangerous behavior."
"This is a common problem we have, even in an era of all this technology," Mr. Huber said. "She was able to walk around free and buy a gun because of a lack of communication between the mental health system and the criminal justice system."
 
The Killing
A Timid Woman In a Man's World
The largest gun store in Utah is a squat cinder block structure in a strip mall. There are racks of rifles on the walls, glass cases full of semiautomatic pistols and the constant sound of gunfire from the basement shooting range. Outside, the high, snow-covered Wasatch mountains loom like a white fortress, and there is a sign saying Doug's Shoot'n Sports that shows a man shaped like a bullet and wearing a Stetson hat drawing revolvers from holsters on both hips.
Lisa Duy first came here to look for a gun in November 1998, two months before the shooting, recalls Mr. Larsen, the manager. She was timid, but so are a lot of women when they enter a gun store.
"It's a man's world," Mr. Larsen said, "kind of intimidating, so we tried to be nice to her. She didn't act strange at all."
Ms. Duy did not know how to shoot, and so Mr. Larsen took her down to the basement and offered instruction.
He did not see her again until January, when she came back and picked out a 9-millimeter semiautomatic. She was wearing a hooded sweatshirt hiding her head from view, says David Sorensen, a customer who was standing next to her.
"She made me feel suspicious right away, with the hood," Mr. Sorensen said in an interview, "and then when I glanced at her, she gave me this real scary look." (Mr. Larsen recalls nothing particularly suspicious, saying it is hardly uncommon to see people wearing hooded sweatshirts in January.)
It was too late that night for Mr. Larsen to call the Bureau of Criminal Identification to run a background check, and so Ms. Duy came back the next day. It took only a couple of minutes for her to be cleared: the bureau checked its criminal-history records, its outstanding-warrants file and the F.B.I. database, but found no disqualifying information, said Joyce Carter, the supervisor of the state agency's firearms section.
Ms. Duy then paid $285 for the gun and went back to the basement to practice for an hour. Mr. Larsen noticed on a television monitor that she was mishandling the gun, holding it with only one hand and a limp wrist, so that the firing mechanism, which needs to be held level, was likely to jam. He went down to give her another lesson.
Ms. Duy was on a mission, she later told doctors who examined her. She needed the gun because the voices had told her that the only way she could stop KSL from reading her mind and informing all of Salt Lake City about her sex life was to kill a woman who worked at the station as a broadcaster.
When she walked into the television station's reception area and began shooting, it was like "going to a beautiful island and I was spreading flowers at them, shooting at them," she later said.
Ultimately, after her gun had jammed and she had been subdued, Sgt. Don Bell of the Salt Lake City police was assigned to interrogate her. He wondered how anyone could have sold her the gun.
"You would not have had to be a rocket scientist to know this woman was not your normal customer," said Sergeant Bell, the city's senior crisis negotiator. "She was swearing a lot, and all she wanted to know was whether the woman she shot in the head was dead. When I said no, she was only critically wounded at that point, Lisa said, 'Then this questioning is illegal.' "
The wounded woman did die later. Her name was Anne Sleater, and she was not even a KSL employee. She was a human resources manager in AT&T Wireless offices in the same building as the station's studios.
A judge ruled that Ms. Duy was mentally incompetent to stand trial and ordered her to the Utah State Hospital for treatment to restore her to competence. She is still there, and doctors' reports suggest that there is little chance she will ever be well enough to be tried.
 
The Aftermath
Enough Is Enough, Some States Decide
Public concern about mentally ill people's ability to buy guns was further heightened here in Utah three months after the Duy shooting. Last April 15, Sergei Babarin, a 70-year-old Russian immigrant who was off his medications for schizophrenia and depression, killed two people and wounded five others in the Mormon genealogical library. Gov. Michael O. Leavitt, a conservative Republican, called for a special session of the Legislature to deal with the issue raised by the two shootings.
Some advocates for the mentally ill, along with some judges, warned that allowing law-enforcement officials access to mental health records would infringe on the civil rights of emotionally troubled people. And the powerful speaker of the Utah House of Representatives, Martin R. Stephens, who has a long record of support for gun owners, said he was against "legislation that will take away people's individual rights in the name of a little personal safety."
But now, a year later, Utah has enacted a law requiring courts that commit people to mental institutions to forward the information to the Bureau of Criminal Identification. So that the confidentiality of the records is safeguarded, the bureau can use the information only for gun checks, and cannot share it with other government agencies.
Most of the nine states that now provide access to mental health information for gun background checks have even more stringent safeguards. In Illinois, the state police each day send a list of new gun-permit applicants to the state's Department of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities, which checks the names against its database. This means the state police have no direct look at the files of the mentally ill.
Connecticut has adopted a similar system, acting after an accountant with a history of depression, suicide attempts and hospitalization killed four of his bosses and then himself at offices of the state lottery in 1998. But since the accountant, Matthew Beck, had been hospitalized voluntarily, brought in on an emergency basis by his father and the police, and not by court order, the law would not have applied to him or barred him from buying a gun.
This raises a further troublesome issue, said Kay Redfield Jamison, a professor of psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
"Often there is not much medical difference between someone who is voluntarily or involuntarily hospitalized," Dr. Jamison said. (Indeed, some patients agree to be hospitalized to avoid court-ordered treatment.) At least eight of the cases that The Times studied involved people who bought guns after voluntary hospitalization, in addition to the eight cases of involuntary commitment.
To fill this gap, Connecticut last year passed another law, the first of its kind in the nation, that allows the police to obtain a court warrant to seize any guns from a person who, in their judgment, is a danger to himself or others. Soon after the law took effect last fall, the police used it to confiscate five guns from a man in North Branford who was depressed after being suspended by his factory for an assault and had told officers he was going to kill his neighbors and co-workers.
"We can't prove how many lives we may have saved," said Mike Dooty, the deputy police chief in North Branford. "But in our eyes, this case had all the telltale signs. As a police department, we usually don't get to see the signs till after a tragedy has happened."
 
Rampage Killers
 
SUNDAY: A portrait of the nation's rampage killers over 50 years.
MONDAY: How relatives, colleagues and officials overlook the warning signs.
TODAY: The difficulty of keeping guns out of the hands of the seriously mentally ill.
WEDNESDAY: One father's efforts to understand his son's murder by a rampage killer.
 
Related articles, an interactive map and a discussion forum are available at The New York Times on the Web: http://www.nytimes.com
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lisa Duy under arrest, only a year after being committed. (pg. A1); Members of a SWAT team leaving a Salt Lake City television station after Lisa Duy had been subdued. The Duy case illustrates a weakness in a system that is supposed to keep people who have been involuntarily committed from buying handguns. (Laura Seitz/Deseret News)(pg. A24)
 
Chart: "Getting a Gun"
How the killers in this study of 100 cases obtained the guns they used. About two-thirds of the guns were semi-automatic or automatic.
 
Fully illegal: 13%
Bought by lying on application: 16%
Borrowed or stolen from family or friend: 15%
Fully legal: 56%
 
To compile this data, The New York Times reviewed newspaper reports, court records and psychiatric reports, and interviewed police, prosecutors and defense lawyers, victims, families, friends and, when possible, the killers themselves. Does not include 25 cases in which gun source could not be determined.paper reports, court records and psychiatric reports, and interviewed police, prosecutors and defense lawyers, victims, families, friends and, when possible, the killers themselves.)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; STATES (US); PRIVACY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FIREARMS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); FIREARMS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); PARANOIA (78%); FELONIES (76%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); DISMISSALS (75%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); RELIGION (67%); PATIENT PRIVACY (66%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (52%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX LISA DUY LIED (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



287 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Judge Rejects Suit In Rent Control Case

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
A state judge has rejected a suit by landlord groups that would have resulted in 7.5 percent annual rent increases on all 50,000 rent-controlled apartments in New York City, in many cases retroactive to 1996. The landlords are expected to appeal.
In his ruling, Justice Leland DeGrasse of State Supreme Court in Manhattan upheld a 1997 law the City Council enacted to clarify the calculations of property value assessments by the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal in figuring rent increases. The landlords had disputed the calculations and had challenged the legality of the Council's action. 
 The ruling, released yesterday, does not apply to the city's larger group of tenants in the one million apartments covered by rent-stabilization laws. "This is very important in protecting rent-controlled tenants," said Michael McKee, associate director of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition.
But Dan Margulies, executive director of the Community Housing Improvement Program, a landlord group, said: "We certainly lean toward appeal. We always expected to lose at the Supreme Court level."
 BRUCE LAMBERT 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (79%); STATE SUPREME COURT (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (79%); STATE SUPREME COURT (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); JUDGES (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); CITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; DEGRASSE, LELAND (JUSTICE)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



288 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Questioning Whistle-Blower's 'Delusions'

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10

 BODY:
The Department of Labor has concluded that the Pacific Gas and Electric Company maneuvered to have psychiatrists find "paranoid delusions" in a veteran manager because he complained publicly about safety problems and management inaction at the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant.
But the Nuclear Regulatory Commission says there is no evidence of any retaliation against the manager, Neil J. Aiken, who was a shift foreman from 1983 until he received the diagnosis in 1998, and the commission does not believe that the incident or the Department of Labor report, which Mr. Aiken's lawyer recently provided to a reporter, will make others reluctant to come forward with safety issues they observe on the job. 
 The utility company says it had only public safety in mind when it sent Mr. Aiken, now 54, to psychiatrists for an evaluation. It later fired him, although his lawyer and company officials differ on the circumstances.
Four operators and managers at the plant said in separate interviews that they believed that Mr. Aiken was mentally sound and was fired because he embarrassed executives. Two said they had been trained by the utility to spot mental instability.
For years, Mr. Aiken complained about problems at Diablo, near San Luis Obispo, Calif., where he had worked since before the plant was completed. In April 1998, he went to a shareholders meeting and distributed a paper detailing his criticism.
Soon after, the utility sent him to two psychiatrists, under a program that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission requires it to maintain. One described Mr. Aiken, who went into the nuclear industry after learning electronics in the Marine Corps, as suffering from a "delusional disorder, persecutory type." The psychiatrists declared Mr. Aiken a threat to security, and the company revoked his security clearance. Late last year, it fired him.
But a report issued in November by the Labor Department, which enforces laws against harassing whistle-blowers, suggested that the real problem was that Mr. Aiken had publicly embarrassed his superiors. Notes by one psychiatrist, the Labor Department report said, show that the doctor's conversations with utility executives before he did his work were "more about how to remove Mr. Aiken from his position than to make a fair, unbiased evaluation of Mr. Aiken's mental state."
A Labor Department investigator, acknowledging his own lack of training in psychology, said in the report that the diagnosis of a delusional disorder "appears unreasoned considering the fact that the evaluators never considered that other employees had complained about the same problem, there existed a culture where employees were reluctant to voice safety complaints, and the evaluators never checked to see if his thoughts were delusional."
A critical point of contention was the safety of the new circuit breakers the company installed because the old ones allowed electrical arcs. The new ones did not, but several operators said they created other problems because they did not fit in easily with the old equipment.
The report found that company managers told the psychiatrists that Mr. Aiken was unable to accept that "numerous investigations" had rejected his position on circuit breakers, but that when the company gave this information to its psychiatrists, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was still investigating the devices.
The commission disputed this but said its report was secret.
"The N.R.C. advertises that you don't have to be afraid of retaliation," Mr. Aiken said in a telephone interview. "But the fact is that no one can stop the corporation from doing what they want to do to you."
The chief nuclear officer of Pacific Gas and Electric, Gregory Rueger, said the company's need to protect public safety conflicted with its need to avoid the appearance of retaliation, but that the former was more important.
"There are times you deal with Neil that he's a very reasonable individual," Mr. Rueger said in a telephone interview. But at other times Mr. Aiken would change the details of his complaint, Mr. Rueger said. He added that employees still filed safety complaints.
Mr. Aiken, unemployed, recently reached a settlement with the company that included early retirement. As a result, the utility's appeal of the Labor Department report will not be heard, leaving the differences between the two agencies unresolved.
"We would not be properly husbanding the taxpayers' money if we spent additional resources investigating," said Gary F. Sanborn, an enforcement officer for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
The commission said Mr. Aiken had made 50 complaints to the agency, of which about 18 were well founded, a higher batting average, officials said, than that of most complainants. The agency cited Pacific Gas and Electric for 2 low-level violations and told the company to fix 16 other problems.
Forty of Mr. Aiken's co-workers took the unusual step of petitioning the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for his reinstatement.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a nuclear plant supervisor who was declared unfit for duty after he complained about safety misattributed a statement about the case. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission official who said his agency would not follow up on a finding by the Labor Department that the worker was fired improperly, because the agency had to husband its resources, was Thomas P. Gwynn, the deputy regional administrator for the commission's western region. It was not Gary F. Sanborn, the region's enforcement officer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The N.R.C. advertises that you don't have to be afraid of retaliation," said Neil J. Aiken, who was fired by a nuclear utility, "but the fact is that no one can stop the corporation from doing what they want to do to you." (Brad Doherty for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (93%); PCG (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION PG&E CORP (93%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (92%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (92%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WHISTLE-BLOWERS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PARANOIA (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: AIKEN, NEIL J; WALD, MATTHEW L NEIL J AIKEN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



289 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Texas Have Not Set High Priority on Health Care

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

 BODY:
Texas has had one of the nation's worst public health records for decades. More than a quarter of its residents have no health insurance. Its Mexican border is a hotbed of contagion. The state ranks near the top in the nation in rates of AIDS, diabetes, tuberculosis and teenage pregnancy, and near the bottom in immunizations, mammograms and access to physicians.
But since George W. Bush became governor in 1995, he has not made health a priority, his aides acknowledge. He has never made a speech on the subject, his press office says. His administration opposed a patient's bill of rights in 1995 before grudgingly accepting one in 1997, and fought unsuccessfully to limit access to the new federal Children's Health Insurance Program in 1999. 
 Health care is near the top of the election agenda, with Vice President Al Gore already proposing a vast expansion of insurance coverage for children. Mr. Bush will begin discussing insurance and other health issues starting on Tuesday with a speech in Cleveland.
Democrats, not waiting for Mr. Bush's proposals, are already attacking him for the Texas record. But politics aside, two things are clear: Texas' health problems run far deeper than the identity of any Austin officeholder, and Mr. Bush has not tried to tackle them, despite a large state budget surplus.
The Democrats point out that Texas' lack of health insurance is among the most severe in the country. Among Texans ages 19 to 65, the percentage without coverage rose slightly under Mr. Bush and is higher than in any state but Arizona. The numbers are even worse among poor children, and hundreds of thousands of them are not enrolled in Medicaid, even though they qualify.
Governor Bush declined to be interviewed for this article, but the views expressed by the state's commissioner of health, Dr. William R. Archer III, cast a light on the Bush administration's approach to the issue.
(Dr. Archer, the son of Representative Bill Archer, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the governor asked him to apply for the commissioner's job; he was formally chosen by the Board of Health in 1997, and took office after Mr. Bush approved the appointment.)
Almost alone among health experts in Texas, Dr. Archer minimizes the importance of the low rate of health insurance, a protection that two-fifths of the state's poor children lack. In an interview, he said he thought that while "eventually we have to insure everybody," he believed the uninsured were still getting care.
"I think insurance is important," he said. "But I don't think it's the most important thing."
Dr. Archer said he doubted that coverage made much real difference to health.
When told of that view, one of the state's leaders in public health, Dr. Ron Anderson of Parkland Hospital in Dallas, said, "Then he hasn't read the literature. Shame on him!"
Dr. Archer also accused Texas doctors of opposing preventive health care out of misplaced concern for their own billings.
"If I can prevent certain diseases upstream, and then there is no need to treat that disease, then there is nothing to charge against," he said.
And he has stirred disputes with his efforts to take his department away from the traditional services it has provided to examine the cultural causes of unhealthy behavior and lifestyles.
For example, he said Texas' high teenage pregnancy rate came about because the state's Hispanic population lacked the belief "that getting pregnant is a bad thing."
"If I were to go to a Hispanic community and say, 'Well, we need to get you into family planning,' they say, 'No, I want to be pregnant,' it doesn't work very well," he said.
According to the Alan Guttmacher Institute, Hispanic teenagers in Texas had a higher pregnancy rate than non-Hispanic whites or blacks, but the white rate was among the nation's highest, too.
The health problems of Texas go back far beyond Governor Bush and Dr. Archer. Texas ranks 25th in per capita income, just ahead of Oregon, but taxes lightly and provides a modest level of public services. Only six states collect a smaller percentage of their residents' personal income in state and local taxes than Texas does.
"The flip side of having no income tax is having a very low level of services," said Anne Dunkelberg, a senior analyst at the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a nonpartisan research institution in Austin.
Dr. Archer explained why the state tolerated having 598,000 children eligible for Medicaid, the federal-state health plan for the poor, but not enrolled in the program: "The problem is that the Legislature knows that if we are successful, and we got all those kids registered, they would not balance their budgets any more. It's not one person saying, 'Don't do this.' It's not one agency saying, 'Don't do this.' It's sort of 'Why would we all rock the boat at this point?' "
Except for Dr. Archer, most prominent health experts in Texas see the low insurance rates as the state's biggest health problem. Clair Jordan, executive director of the Texas Nurses Association, said, "Uninsured children end up in the most costly place, the emergency room."
State Representative Elliott Naishtat, a Democrat who is chairman of the House Human Services Committee, said, "The biggest health problem in Texas is the exorbitant number of people, primarily children, who have no health insurance."
Without insurance, said Jose Camacho, head of the Texas Association of Community Health Centers, children get only sporadic treatment for ear infections, asthma and diabetes.
Health insurance coverage in Texas has been stagnant for years. According to the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, among Texans 19 to 65 years old, 27.5 percent were uninsured in 1998, compared with 19.7 percent for the nation. In 1994, before Mr. Bush took office, the Texas percentage was 27.8 and the national figure 18.6 percent.
Among poor children the coverage was much worse. In 1998, 39.1 percent of Texans under 18 living at no more than twice the poverty level lacked insurance, compared with 25.7 percent nationally. In 1994, 36.7 percent of poor children in Texas and 22.8 percent of poor children nationally were uninsured.
There are many reasons for the low rates of insurance, including migratory labor, a large rural population and many low-wage workers in nonunion jobs.
But the single biggest reason is probably the state's Medicaid program, which has some of the nation's most severe limits and complicated eligibility rules and thus makes Texas "one of the most difficult states for someone to figure out how to get enrolled," said Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a research organization.
State Representative Garnet F. Coleman, a Democrat who is vice chairman of the House Public Health Committee, contended that the state had created an "atmosphere of fear" around applying for Medicaid.
Bertha Rochel, a homemaker interviewed at an El Paso clinic, said some of her neighbors did not seek Medicaid because "they are afraid and maybe some of their children are illegal." Some others would find their citizenship applications barred if they sought government benefits now. Mr. Camacho pointed to the Texas rule that missing an appointment meant a Medicaid applicant had to start over.
Of the 1.4 million to 1.5 million children without health insurance, the number may drop sharply in the next year when Texas finally starts enrolling children in the children's health insurance program, known as CHIP, which was enacted by Congress in 1997. Mr. Bush let the question wait until the 1999 legislative session, and fought to limit its coverage to children with family incomes up to 150 percent of the poverty line, although the federal law allowed covering children up to 200 percent of the poverty level.
The Bush approach would have excluded 200,000 of the 500,000 who became eligible when the legislature insisted on the higher level. Mr. Bush said at a Sacramento news conference on Thursday, "I signed the 200 percent bill" and would not say why he pushed for 150 percent.
The reason given at the time for the Bush position, legislators said, was a fear that a big new program would be costly by itself and turn up a "spillover" of many thousands who were already eligible for Medicaid, which has an income ceiling of 100 percent of poverty. The federal government reimburses Texas 61.5 cents out of every dollar spent for Medicaid, and will pay 75 cents on the dollar for CHIP.
Many states, like Texas, have been slow to take advantage of the CHIP program; President Clinton took the nation's governors to task over the issue in August.
But Texas now has a large effort planned for CHIP. Don Gilbert, the state commissioner of Health and Human Services, said he expected to enroll 420,000 children in CHIP and perhaps another 120,000 in Medicaid over the next year.
The worst health in Texas, with disease rates at Third World levels, is on the Mexican border. Almost a fourth of the state's population lives in 43 border counties along the 1,264 miles of the Rio Grande from El Paso to Brownsville, and as far from the river as San Antonio, about 125 miles.
Except for San Antonio, it is a poor area. El Paso, Laredo, McAllen and Brownsville are four of the five poorest cities in the country. About a third of the population lives below the poverty level. All but two of the counties have a shortage of doctors.
A 1998 report by the state comptroller's office observed: "Health conditions in the Texas-Mexico border are among the worst in the U.S., so distressful that reports on health conditions suggest a remote country in need of medical missionaries, not a part of Texas." For example, it said, "Cases of hepatitis A, a gastrointestinal virus borne by contaminated food and water, are four times as common in the Rio Grande Valley as in the rest of Texas." Tuberculosis, diabetes and dengue fever are other high-incidence diseases.
At the border some improvement has been made in recent years, but very slowly, said Dr. Laurance N. Nickey, a retired city-county health director who now serves on the binational border health commission. Dr. Nickey said 72,000 people (about a tenth of El Paso's population) live in unincorporated colonias, or settlements, where "some of the water is safe to drink," and less than half have safe sewerage.
As primitive as some conditions are on the United States side of the border, they are worse on the south. Ciudad Juarez, a city of 1.6 million people across from El Paso, is just building its first two sewage treatment plants. Until now, a 17-mile open trench has been used for sewage disposal, and it pollutes the groundwater on both sides of the border.
Dr. Archer said Governor Bush had persuaded Mexican authorities to put money into tuberculosis control, a move they had resisted because the border states in Mexico are not nearly its poorest.
El Paso alone sees about 65 million legal border crossings a year. "With this kind of a rate of crossings," Dr. Nickey said, "you don't keep measles on one side of the border and chicken pox on the other."
"We share the same air. We share the same water. We share the same pollution. We share the same hazardous waste." And because the border counties are a gateway to the rest of Texas and the rest of the country, he said, "It's not just a border issue. it involves the whole United States."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about health care in Texas misstated the extent of Gov. George W. Bush's public discussions on the subject. According to his presidential campaign office, Governor Bush has given at least two speeches on the subject -- on Sept. 15, 1995, to the Texas Medical Association and on June 2, 1998, to the Texas Health Care Association. His gubernatorial press office had said, and the article reported, that he had never made a speech on the subject.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Health coverage has been low in Texas, with 39.1 percent of low-income children uninsured. Last week at a clinic in El Paso, 10-year-old Ismael Acosta had a checkup with Maria Moreno, a nurse. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times)(pg. A26)
 
Chart: "CHECKUP: State of Health in Texas"
A look at several health indicators. The first line, in bold, shows the most recent data available; the second line shows the incidence when George W. Bush became governor in 1995.
 
Adults ages 19 to 65 with no health insurance
1998
UNITED STATES: 27.5%
Texas: 19.7
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 27.8
Texas: 18.6
 
Low-income (less than 200% of poverty) children with no health insurance
1998
UNITED STATES: 39.1
Texas: 25.7
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 36.7
Texas: 22.8
 
Adults who reported not seeing doctor because of cost in last year
1998
UNITED STATES: 12.7%
Texas: 10.1%
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 14.4
Texas: 12.5
 
Women over 50 who had mammogram in past two years
1997
UNITED STATES: 67.8
Texas: 73.7*
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 63.7
Texas: 67.5*
 
Adults saying they were in fair or poor health
1998
UNITED STATES: 18.6
Texas: 13.1
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 15.6
Texas: 13.7
 
Per capita income
1998
UNITED STATES: $24,957
Texas: $26,412
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 19,857**
Texas: 23,988**
 
State and local taxes per capita
1996
UNITED STATES: $2,128
Texas: $2,597
 
1992
UNITED STATES: 1,860
Texas: 2,183
 
People in poverty
1998
UNITED STATES: 15.2%
Texas: 12.8%
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 19.1
Texas: 14.5
 
Medicaid spending per enrollee
1996
UNITED STATES: $2,677
Texas: $3,397
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 1,751
Texas: 2,956
 
Teenage pregnancies per 1,000 women
1996
UNITED STATES: 113
Texas: 97
 
1992
UNITED STATES: 123
Texas: 112
 
Infant mortality per 1,000 live births
1997
UNITED STATES: 6.3
Texas: 6.6
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 7.2
Texas: 7.9
 
Tuberculosis cases per 100,000
1999
UNITED STATES: 8.2
Texas: 6
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 13.8
Texas: 9.4
 
Cancer death rate per 100,000
1997
UNITED STATES: 122.8
Texas: 125.6
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 129.0
Texas: 131.5
 
Diabetes death rate per 100,000
1997
UNITED STATES: 17.4
Texas: 13.6
 
1994
UNITED STATES: 17.1
Texas: 13.0
 
Physicians per 100,000 population
1998
UNITED STATES: 226
Texas: 288
 
1992
UNITED STATES: 179
Texas: 224
 
*Median.
**Adjusted for inflation in 1998 dollars.
 
(Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; National Center for Health Statistics; Statistical Abstract of the United States; Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured; CQ's State Fact Finder; Alan Guttmacher Institute; American Association of Retired Persons)(pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2488 FINANCIAL FREEDOM ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%); AARP INC (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%); AARP INC (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (95%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; HEALTH INSURANCE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CHILDREN (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (72%); RANKINGS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); DIABETES (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); APPROVALS (65%); BUDGETS (65%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



290 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3409 words

HEADLINE: Author's First Book Wins Pulitzer for Fiction; 3 Journalism Prizes to Washington Post

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Jhumpa Lahiri, 33, who was born in London and raised in Rhode Island, won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction yesterday for her first book, a collection of stories evoking the isolation and disconnection of South Asian immigrants in America.
Ms. Lahiri, who won for "Interpreter of Maladies" (Mariner Books/Houghton Mifflin), was the second immigrant to win a national fiction award in five months. In November, Ha Jin, a Pulitzer finalist from China, won a National Book Award for his novel "Waiting." 
 A work of Asian history, John W. Dower's "Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II" (W. W. Norton), won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction. This comprehensive portrait of modern Japan by Mr. Dower, a professor of history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, also won a National Book Award.
The journalism awards were dominated by The Washington Post, which won three prizes, including the public service award, and The Wall Street Journal, which won prizes for the "Potomac Watch" columns of Paul A. Gigot and for its coverage of United States military spending in the post-cold-war era.
The Village Voice, the New York City weekly, won the prize for international reporting for Mark Schoofs's series on AIDS in Africa, which Mr. Schoofs called a "catastrophe that is transforming the continent forever."
The Associated Press, its writers Sang-Hun Choe, Charles J. Hanley and Martha Mendoza, and its researcher Randy Herschaft won the investigative reporting award for piecing together details of an American massacre of civilians during the Korean War.
The Post won the public service award for its coverage of the abuse and neglect of the mentally retarded in group homes in the District of Columbia, in a series spearheaded by Katherine Boo. Henry Allen of The Post won the award for criticism for his "fresh and authoritative" writing on photography. Carol Guzy, Michael Williamson and Lucian Perkins won the feature photography award for coverage of Kosovo refugees.
The Post's photography award was the only prize given for coverage of the Kosovo conflict. The coverage of the student shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado brought Denver's daily papers two awards.
The Denver Post won the award for breaking news for its "clear and balanced" coverage of the student killings. The Rocky Mountain News photography staff won for breaking news photography for its "emotional images."
George Dohrmann of The St. Paul Pioneer Press, whose reporting on widespread academic fraud in the men's basketball program at the University of Minnesota provoked local outrage, won for beat reporting.
The prize for explanatory reporting was awarded to Eric Newhouse of The Great Falls Tribune in Montana for his examination of alcoholism and its consequences. J. R. Moehringer of The Los Angeles Times won for feature writing, and Joel Pett of The Lexington Herald-Leader in Kentucky won for editorial cartooning.
The whiff of controversy that sometimes accompanies the awards process was absent this year, but there were echoes of controversy in other quarters, particularly at The Associated Press, which labored for months on the Korean massacre account. The delay, coming in the months after CNN retracted a report alleging the use of nerve gas during the Vietnam War, angered the reporters involved, but the editors defended it as appropriate thoroughness.
"The significance of the story and the strength of our reporting left no doubt in our minds that our story would eventually get out," Mr. Hanley said.
He added, "The delay that did occur was largely unwarranted, in the view of the journalists involved."
Jon Wolman, managing editor of The Associated Press, said, "We are extremely proud of the editorial process that produced such a meticulous and valuable piece of work."
The editorial writing award was given to John C. Bersia of The Orlando Sentinel for his campaign against predatory lending practices.
The Pulitzer Prize for drama was awarded to the playwright Donald Margulies, who teaches writing at Yale University, for "Dinner With Friends," about the vicissitudes of marriage in middle age. The award for biography was given to Stacy Schiff for "Vera (Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov)" (Random House).
The prize for a work of history was awarded to David M. Kennedy, a Stanford University history professor, for his book "Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945" (Oxford University Press).
"Repair" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), a collection of verse by C. K. Williams, was awarded the prize for poetry. The prize in music went to "Life Is a Dream, Opera in Three Acts: Act II, Concert Version" by Lewis Spratlan.
 
FICTION
 
JHUMPA LAHIRI
"Interpreter of Maladies"
This collection of stories about the lives of people in North America and India is the first book by Ms. Lahiri. Born in London, she grew up in Rhode Island and lives in New York City. She is a graduate of Barnard College and Boston University. Many of the characters in her stories are Indian immigrants in the United States confronting a cultural displacement.
The book was published last June in a trade paperback edition. In her review in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani wrote: "Ms. Lahiri chronicles her characters' lives with both objectivity and compassion while charting the emotional temperature of their lives with tactile precision. She is a writer of uncommon elegance and poise, and with 'Interpreter of Maladies,' she has made a precocious debut."
"The family looked Indian but dressed as foreigners did, the children in stiff, brightly colored clothing and caps with translucent visors. Mr. Kaspasi was accustomed to foreign tourists: he was assigned to them regularly because he could speak English. Yesterday he had driven an elderly couple from Scotland, both with spotted faces and fluffy white hair so trim it exposed their sunburnt scalps."
 
GENERAL NONFICTION
 
JOHN W. DOWER
"Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II"
John W. Dower subjects the nearly seven-year American occupation of Japan after World War II to a searching, myth-breaking examination. Popularly known as a huge success, the occupation, in Mr. Dower's portrait, was a complex and wrenching adjustment by the Japanese to overwhelming American power. Mr. Dower, a historian at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, draws out the occupation's deep effects on Japanese society, treating topics like prostitution, the postwar role of Emperor Hirohito and the emergence of a brand of state capitalism with a close relationship between government and business.
 
HISTORY
 
DAVID M. KENNEDY
"Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-45"
In his one-volume work on the era of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, part of the Oxford History of the United States series, David M. Kennedy portrays President Herbert Hoover as a reflective humanitarian "overwhelmed by events," finds order in the chaos of New Deal policies, and suggests that Roosevelt bent the law so far to get aid to France and Britain that he almost courted impeachment. But the high drama of the book is watching a nation, straitjacketed by an isolationist Congress, enter the war. A native of Seattle, Dr. Kennedy, the Donald J. McLachlan Professor of History at Stanford University, is also the author of "Birth Control in America: The Career of Margaret Sanger (1970), which won the Bancroft Prize, and "Over Here: The First World War and American Society" (1980), which was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.
 
POETRY
 
C. K. WILLIAMS
"Repair"
Mr. Williams, a New Jersey native, lives part of the year in Paris and teaches at Princeton University. Known for his long, Whitmanesque sentences and his documentary style, he can be ruthless, even cruel, in his pitiless contemplation of the world around him. The subjects of his early work were politics, the Vietnam War, the horrors of the nuclear age. But in recent years, his poems have become more personal and introspective. In the poem "Archetypes," Mr. Williams writes about a sleeping woman who stirs in her dreams and rises up, like an animal, to her hands and knees.
Your fingers began to move then, in brief, irregular tensions and releasings;
it felt like your hand was trying to hold some feathery, fleeting creature,
then you suddenly, fiercely, jerked it away, rose to your hands and knees,
and stayed there, palms flat on the bed, hair tangled down over your face,
until with a coarse sigh almost like a snarl you abruptly let
yourself fall
and lay still, your hands drawn tightly to your chest, your head turned away,
forbidden to me, I thought, by whatever had raised you to that defiant crouch.
 
BIOGRAPHY
 
STACY SCHIFF
"Vera (Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov)"
The triumph of this portrait of a 52-year marriage is not just in providing entree to the wife's famous husband. She fascinates in her own right: first, as a girl reciting Nabokov by heart when, in 1923, she makes her first approach to the aristocratic Cambridge-educated writer, already well known among Russian expatriates in Berlin; ever thereafter until Nabokov's death in 1977 as the provider of the comforts he needed, as he told her, "for the sake of not thinking about them." Stacy Schiff is the author of "Saint-Exupery," a finalist for the 1995 Pulitzer Prize in biography.
 
DRAMA
 
DONALD MARGULIES
"Dinner With Friends"
Mr. Margulies, 45, a veteran playwright known for comic excisions of troubled families, won for a gentle, straightforward play that shuns the arch and sometimes farcical vision of previous works like "The Loman Family Picnic" and "What's Wrong With This Picture?" He lives in New Haven, where he teaches playwriting at the Yale School of Drama.
"Dinner With Friends" is about four friends, two baby-boom marriages, one of which is coming apart. In various settings -- a well-appointed kitchen, a couple's bedroom, a suburban back porch, an upscale bar -- the play recreates a world meant to give pangs of recognition to affluent midlife theatergoers. The play has become a surprise Off Broadway hit.
"What initially seems a rather conventional glimpse at the perils of breaking up," Peter Marks wrote in his review in The New York Times, "becomes an original examination of the terrors of staying together."
 
MUSIC
 
LEWIS SPRATLAN
"Life Is a Dream, Opera in Three Acts: Act II, Concert Version"
Mr. Spratlan, 59, is a composer who was born in Miami and has been a professor of composition at Amherst College since 1970. He based this opera on a 17th-century Spanish play by Pedro Calderon, "La Vida Es Sueno." Using an English libretto by James Maraniss, Mr. Spratlan created a theatrical world in which the characters were given distinct musical thumbprints that were meant to embody their personalities, and in which the dissonances and angularities of contemporary styles were linked with traditional dance, march and madrigal forms. Mr. Spratlan completed the work in 1978, but revised its second act for concert use. The concert version was given its world premiere by the Dinosaur Annex, conducted by J. David Jackson in Boston on Jan. 28.
 
PUBLIC SERVICE
 
THE WASHINGTON POST
The Post won the gold medal for public service, its second in a row, with a two-part series describing the abuse of those in the District of Columbia's group homes for the mentally retarded and how the residents often died from the poor treatment. The city government has pledged to reform the system.
The writer, Katherine Boo, 35, a native of Washington, spent 13 months reporting after a source on another article about welfare revisions took her into a group home where retarded residents were sitting in total darkness with roaches scuttling underfoot. Ms. Boo found that the people who died in those circumstances were often buried in unmarked graves.
"I feel that the prize is a small marker that the Pulitzer board has put down on these unmarked graves," she said yesterday, "and it says that the people who died here and who suffered here mattered."
 
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING
 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The A.P. won for painstakingly documenting a decades-old cover-up of atrocities by the United States military in the first weeks of the Korean War. Three reporters -- Charles J. Hanley, Martha Mendoza and Sang-Hun Choe -- aided by Randy Herschaft, a researcher, disclosed for the first time how American soldiers machine-gunned hundreds of civilians under a bridge at No Gun Ri. The work has led to an investigation by the Army.
"We're proud of the No Gun Ri reporting," the four said in a statement. "But our celebration is tempered by the nature of what we confirmed."
 
INTERNATIONAL REPORTING
 
MARK SCHOOFS
The Village Voice
Mr. Schoofs said his editors did not blink when he proposed what was a costly assignment for an alternative weekly: spending six months documenting the AIDS catastrophe in sub-Saharan Africa. During his travels, Mr. Schoofs, 37, visited rural villages where no journalist had ever been and contracted a drug-resistant form of malaria that put him in the hospital. In a 28,000-word series, he described the struggles of elderly people forced to care for orphaned grandchildren and the often-heroic efforts of impoverished villagers to provide for the sick. He said he hoped the series would bring about more aid to the region. "This country can make a huge difference," he said.
 
NATIONAL REPORTING
 
WALL STREET JOURNAL STAFF
The Journal series examined the ways the United States military had spent billions of dollars since the end of the cold war. In what the newspaper called an unusual collaboration, the articles were produced by Thomas E. Ricks, its Pentagon correspondent, and five business reporters in bureaus around the country.
The Journal found and explained problems varying from the Defense Department's reluctance to embrace promising technology to the Navy's use of skilled technicians to count the number of sailors choosing pork chops for dinner.
 
BEAT REPORTING
 
GEORGE DOHRMANN
The St. Paul Pioneer Press
Mr. Dohrmann, 27, doggedly pursued academic cheating by the University of Minnesota basketball team and showed that school officials were doing players' course work. His reporting exposed one of the broadest cases of academic fraud in collegiate history, enraging many fans, and led to the university's buying out the head coach's contract and the dismissal of four other officials.
He quoted Russ Archambault, a former player, who recounted how one athletic department employee tutored him: "I sat down and she just started typing."
Mr. Dohrmann said the key to breaking the story was winning the confidence of a retired athletic department employee who gave him records. "I had to convince her that what she did was wrong," he said.
 
BREAKING NEWS REPORTING
 
STAFF OF THE DENVER POST
From the first hour of the killings at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., last April, 54 reporters and 8 photographers reported relentlessly on the student killings, publishing more than two dozen stories within 12 hours of the first shot.
Winning the prize was bittersweet for the staff, many of whom lived in Littleton, said Frank Scandale, The Post's assistant managing editor for news, who supervised the Columbine coverage. "You had covered their sporting events, their City Council, their baton-twirling championships," Mr. Scandale said. "And then, to see these kids on the ground, bloodied and tortured, broke down a lot of people."
 
EXPLANATORY REPORTING
 
ERIC NEWHOUSE
The Great Falls Tribune
Mr. Newhouse, 55, the paper's projects editor, won for a yearlong series of monthly articles on the social and economic costs of alcoholism in Montana. The project, which included regular visits with a chronic alcoholic, represented, he said, a "tremendous commitment" for a paper with a circulation of 34,000 and a full-time staff of 38.
"This isn't about me," he said by telephone in the midst of a newsroom celebration. "It's about a small newspaper willing to devote its resources to such a huge problem. We're very much a community paper, and people trust us. So many folks were willing to talk to us with candor and honesty about their problem."
 
CRITICISM
 
HENRY ALLEN
The Washington Post
Previous criticism prizes have included photography reviews, but this was the first year that the Pulitzer board bestowed a prize solely for writing about that art.
Here is Mr. Allen on photographs by Brassai, who documented Paris between the wars, on exhibit at the National Gallery of Art in Washington:
"When Brassai took his camera out into the Paris night, he was reveling in the humanity -- not the alienation -- of the whores, thieves and gay demimonde he photographed: the naked brothel staff with dimpled bodies whose shapes remind you of Babe Ruth, the lurking darkness beneath bridges, the cafe girl with spit curls and a bad tooth lolling heavy-lidded between two sailors, the quarreling lovers in their adamance and sulk, the two thugs of the sort who robbed and beat Brassai during his nighttime investigations."
 
FEATURE WRITING
 
J. R. MOEHRINGER
The Los Angeles Times
Mr. Moehringer, 35, The Times's Atlanta bureau chief since 1997, painted a 9,000-word portrait of Gee's Bend, Ala., "the last place on earth still safe enough for children and dead folks to go walking after dark." The isolated river community is one of the few places in the nation where the descendants of slaves still live on the land of their ancestors. Mr. Moehringer spent 18 months chronicling a controversial plan to resurrect the local ferry. Despite the town's harsh racial history, he said, "This is a town that has nothing but love in its heart despite all the cruelty visited upon it."
 
COMMENTARY
 
PAUL A. GIGOT
The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Gigot, a member of the editorial board of The Journal, was honored for the insight and detailed knowledge of politics and government he imparts in his conservative "Potomac Watch" weekly column.
Many of his columns examined the impeachment battle and the harsh light it focused on Washington and on the reporters who cover it. In one column, Mr. Gigot concluded: "Only here could a man who lies under oath be equated with someone who tries to defend the value of that oath. The point is never, 'What's right?' but rather, 'Who won?' "
Mr. Gigot, 44, is a regular political analyst on "The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer" on PBS.
 
EDITORIAL WRITING
JOHN C. BERSIA
The Orlando Sentinel
Mr. Bersia, 43, won for editorials about lending practices of payday advance and car-title loan companies. "There was evolving a double standard," he said yesterday, "one for people who were poor or in desperate financial circumstances and were forced to borrow at triple-digit rates, and the other for people in the mainstream, borrowing at lower rates." When the State Senate rejected a bill to regulate car-title companies, which typically lend a customer 15 percent of a car's value, Mr. Bersia wrote editorials urging Florida's 67 counties to approve such a law. So far, 36 counties have limited the interest charged by car-title lenders to 30 percent a year or less; 11 other counties are considering similar laws.
 
BREAKING NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY
 
STAFF OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS
Jessica Holliday, left, and Diwata Perez wailed in sorrow moments after fleeing gunmen at Columbine High School in this photograph by George Kochaniec Jr., one of 15 photographers for The News whose work was submitted. Janet Reeves, director of photography for the paper, said the $5,000 prize would be donated to an organization that is rebuilding the high school's library.
 
FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY
 
CAROL GUZY, MICHAEL S. WILLIAMSON and LUCIAN PERKINS
The Washington Post
Agim Shala, a 2-year-old Kosovo refugee, is passed through a fence into the hands of her grandparents at a camp in Kukes, Albania, in this picture by Ms. Guzy.
 
EDITORIAL CARTOONING
 
JOEL PETT
The Lexington Herald-Leader
Mr. Pett, 46, with the paper since 1984, singled out Senator Jim Bunning, a Kentucky Republican who supports the gun lobby. "Every cartoonist in the country did a lot of gun cartoons last year," Mr. Pett said, "but it's a different thing to put a name and a face on it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A brief report yesterday about the composer Lewis Spratlan, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for music for his "Life Is a Dream, Opera in Three Acts: Act II, Concert Version," misstated the site of the work's world premiere on Jan. 28. It was first played at Amherst College in Amherst, Mass., not in Boston.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: INTERPRETER OF MALADIES (BOOK); EMBRACING DEFEAT: JAPAN IN THE WAKE OF WORLD WAR II (BOOK); FREEDOM FROM FEAR (BOOK); REPAIR (BOOK); VERA (BOOK); DINNER WITH FRIENDS (PLAY)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: ;LEXINGTON HERALD LEADER (NEWSPAPER); WASHINGTON POST; ASSOCIATED PRESS; ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS; VILLAGE VOICE; WALL STREET JOURNAL; ST PAUL PIONEER PRESS (NEWSPAPER); DENVER POST; GREAT FALLS TRIBUNE; LOS ANGELES TIMES; ORLANDO SENTINEL LOS ANGELES TIMES (80%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); DENVER POST CORP (52%); NORTHWEST PUBLICATIONS INC (51%); SAINT PAUL PIONEER PRESS (51%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;LEXINGTON HERALD LEADER (NEWSPAPER); WASHINGTON POST; ASSOCIATED PRESS; ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS; VILLAGE VOICE; WALL STREET JOURNAL; ST PAUL PIONEER PRESS (NEWSPAPER); DENVER POST; GREAT FALLS TRIBUNE; LOS ANGELES TIMES; ORLANDO SENTINEL MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: PULITZER PRIZES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PHOTOGRAPHY; POETRY; THEATER; OPERA ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (97%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); REFUGEES (77%); HISTORY (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); KOREAN WAR (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (63%); MENTAL RETARDATION (63%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; LAHIRI, JHUMPA; KENNEDY, DAVID M; WILLIAMS, C K; PETT, JOEL; SCHIFF, STACY; MARGULIES, DONALD; SPRATLAN, LEWIS; GUZY, CAROL; WILLIAMSON, MICHAEL S; PERKINS, LUCIAN; SCHOOFS, MARK; DOHRMANN, GEORGE; ALLEN, HENRY; MOEHRINGER, J R; GIGOT, PAUL; BERSIA, JOHN C CHRISTIAN PAUL (69%); GEORGE ALLEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000



291 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Harassment Suits Hit the Dot-Coms

BYLINE: By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
The dot-com workplace is a magnet for young Americans, with its promise of adventure, riches and a casual work environment.
Now, though, the environment may be getting too casual. Managers at some Internet companies are rethinking their corporate cultures as a smattering of sexual harassment lawsuits begins to roll into their high-technology world. Some legal experts think these cases might be the beginning of a wave. 
 "The Internet start-up community is going to be a major target for sexual harassment litigation," said Gregory I. Rasin, a senior partner at the Manhattan office of Jackson Lewis Schnitzler & Krupman, an employment law firm that has several dot-com clients.
By nature, these companies are at legal risk because the entrepreneurs who start them are often eager to create the ultimate anticorporate environment, says Corey Sprague, director of human resources at the RiskMetrics Group, an Internet start-up on Wall Street. "I get a lot of calls from people who are setting up dot-com companies and want to create a no-holds-barred, wild culture, free of rules and policies," said Ms. Sprague, whose company is one of the few start-ups that hired human-resources personnel from the beginning. As a result, she says, most are not eager to create policies and training programs that address traditional human resources concerns.
Even managers who are sensitive to issues like sexual harassment are so focused on raising capital and expanding their businesses that they neglect to create a human resources department to address them, says John Iorillo, co-founder of the Ambrose Employer Group, a provider of human resources services in New York that has more than 120 dot-com clients. "For the first few years, most start-ups are just in survival mode," he said.
That was the case at Pseudo Programs, a Manhattan-based Internet TV network that was sued in January by a former employee who says the company had a hostile work environment for women. In her complaint, the employee, Kelly Alfieri, said male employees at Pseudo frequently referred to female employees as "bimbos" and forced them to look at sexually explicit material on the Internet.
Pseudo's male employees "were allowed to do whatever they wanted," said David Jaroslawicz, Ms. Alfieri's lawyer. "It was like they were living in the Wild West, and the sheriff was out of town."
Jeanne Meyer, senior vice president for marketing at Pseudo, said Ms. Alfieri's accusations were "completely without merit." The company acknowledges that it created a human resources department only after Ms. Alfieri quit Pseudo two years ago. "As with most start-ups, our senior management did everything in the beginning, from putting toilet paper in the bathrooms to payroll," Ms. Meyer said. But now, she said, its new department "continually reinforces the company's sexual-harassment policies."
Compounding the lack of formal policies and training at many start-ups is a culture of long hours and close quarters. "People are working 80 or 100 hours per week, so the only social contact they're having is in the context of the workplace," said Daniel Weisberg, an employment-law specialist at Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison, a Manhattan-based law firm. As a result, he says, inner-office dating is rampant, and relationships that go sour have the potential to turn into sexual harassment complaints.
In one highly publicized example, Juno Online Services, a Internet company based in Midtown Manhattan, was sued last fall by two former female employees who said they had been told they would lose their jobs if they broke off their relationships with senior executives they were dating. Juno's lawyer, Terri Ross, says the company denies the accusations in both lawsuits. One lawsuit has since been referred to arbitration by a New York state court, and Juno has applied to send the second complaint to arbitration.
Another common theme in cases he handles, Mr. Weisberg said, is that "the one who was spurned gets terminated or doesn't get the promotion they thought they should get and decides to sue."
Because Internet start-ups are often small, with many staff members working in the same space, other employees are often unwitting witnesses to office liaisons, according to Garry G. Mathiason, a partner at Littler Mendelson, a San Francisco employment-law firm that represents more than 1,000 dot-coms throughout the country.
Mr. Mathiason offers the example of a company he represents where an employee recently complained that she had walked in on two co-workers having sex on the office floor. The woman was so offended, he says, that she immediately quit her job and is threatening to bring a claim against the company.
While such reports of sexual harassment seem fairly blatant, the majority of sexual harassment complaints at dot-coms are more subtle, according to Mr. Weisberg. "The most common problem we hear about are employees who are offended by all the sexually explicit e-mail jokes that bounce around these offices," he said.
Mr. Mathiason recently received a complaint from an employee who said she had received an e-mail, later traced to a co-worker, that read, "I see you're wearing black today. You're a very bad girl," and directed her to an X-rated Web site. At another dot-com, Mr. Mathiason said, female employees complained that their male colleagues were continuously logging onto a Web site featuring co-eds taking showers.
"These kinds of activities seem to predominate in the dot-com world," Mr. Mathiason said. "A lot of these guys haven't been out of school for very long, and they're still experimenting with this kind of juvenile stuff."
Not all managers turn a blind eye to such antics, of course. Mr. Weisberg said his office had fielded several calls from dot-coms looking to provide sexual harassment training to managers. His office recently assisted two larger Manhattan-based Internet companies, DoubleClick Inc. and About.com, in setting up anti-discrimination training programs. "We're definitely seeing more companies take a pro-active stance," Mr. Weisberg said.
Another start-up, Boutique Y3K, recently appointed a human-resources manager to oversee its 12 employees. "We intend to take issues of harassment and discrimination seriously," said Lisa Tisdale, the new manager.
Those that do not take such issues seriously are looking for trouble, Mr. Mathiason says. "Right now, you're not seeing as much litigation as you might expect" in the dot-com world, he said. That is partly because the economy is so robust that would-be plaintiffs are "getting six job offers on the way to their lawyers' offices," Mr. Mathiason said.
But the minute the economy slows, he warned, disgruntled employees will have fewer opportunities to move on and will be more likely to go after their deep-pocketed former employers. "It will be like an earthquake hit," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corey Sprague says many start-ops want a "wild culture, free of rules and policies." (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RMG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: JACKSON LEWIS LLP (84%); RISKMETRICS GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; SEXUAL HARASSMENT SEXUAL HARASSMENT (92%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); LITIGATION (90%); STARTUPS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WOMEN (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (72%); SHERIFFS (50%); 

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



292 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: THE BOSS;
Call Him Lucky. Or Elvis.

BYLINE: By Neil M. Cornelius Jr.; Written with Deidre Leipziger 

 BODY:
It's important to get opportunities, to see them and to take them. It's also important to see that other people get opportunities, too.
I didn't grow up with a silver spoon by any stretch. My dad, an auto mechanic, was from the Oneida Indian Nation, and my mother, who was a teaching assistant in a local school, was from the Stockbridge-Munsee Band of Mohican Indians, and they kind of raised us in the middle, in Shawano, Wis. The town was predominantly white, with Native American all around. I've always felt comfortable in both worlds. 
 I have eight siblings. My older sister Carol and I are the only ones of the kids who went to college and graduate school. She's a college professor. I don't know why we accomplished what we did, but we somehow got the message that we needed to do something to get out of the environment unless we wanted to repeat the environment.
I got lucky when I was 14 or so -- I got invited to join Upward Bound, a government program for poor kids with some potential. I got to be with other kids like myself. I got to see some successful people, and I got some coaching. It got me to college. The Rev. Jerry Thompson, who headed the program, is one of the biggest influences in my life. He was a cheerleader and a spiritual leader and a father figure. He particularly liked beating us at racquetball.
After college, I went to work for I.B.M., where my sister Carol was working. She got me the job -- no, she got me the interview; I got me the job, stocking computer parts. The big thing for me was to work for I.B.M.; I didn't care what job. I soon got the opportunity to get a job as a computer repairman in Milwaukee. I didn't have any experience, but I somehow got tabbed as a guy who could succeed. Eventually, I got into management.
I.B.M. was great to me, and I was great to I.B.M. It was a great marriage. But in my 20th year there, I realized I wasn't going to be chairman. I decided to seek out more opportunity, and I wanted to come back and work with my people. The timing was right, too: I.B.M. was downsizing, and they offered a silver parachute, so to speak. I had a few dollars in my pocket and I was unemployed, so I went back to school and got my master's degree.
I was living in Boulder, Colo., and took a summer driving trip with my son, seeing baseball games along the way. In Wisconsin, we came to see family, too. One thing led to another, and soon I got a job with the Oneida tribe as director of the enterprise division.
Indian gaming came to town in the early 1980's, and things had changed dramatically. For the better? Yes and no. It has enabled many things for some tribes that didn't have anything -- schools, infrastructure, housing, jobs. But many smaller tribes now have a new kind of welfare: wealth without having to work. It's worse than poverty without work.
For my new job at the Treasure Island casino, which is owned by the Prairie Island Indian Community, I live at the casino hotel in Red Wing, Minn., during the week. I very much look forward to going home to Green Bay on Friday. My family saves all my chores, of course, but I'm a big Packers fan and if there's a game I get to go.
It's tough being away, but my job is extremely fulfilling. One of the most fun times I ever had was about two years ago, when I was the gaming general manager at Oneida. I did a sky dive with the Flying Elvi -- those entertainers in Elvis costumes. I didn't get a costume, but I did get pictures.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEIL M. CORNELIUS JR. -- General manager, Treasure Island Resort and Casino (Scott Cohen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: TREASURE ISLAND RESORT AND CASINO; PRAIRIE ISLAND INDIAN COMMUNITY

ORGANIZATION: TREASURE ISLAND RESORT AND CASINO; PRAIRIE ISLAND INDIAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); BASEBALL (71%); RESORTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MEN (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CORNELIUS, NEIL M JR; LEIPZIGER, DEIDRE

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



293 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Need a Chef? Have Your People Call My People

BYLINE: By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
IN five years in New York, Richard Farnabe built up a stellar resume. He started as a cook at Daniel, moved to Jean Georges and eventually was promoted to executive chef at Mercer Kitchen. Last year, he was hired away to cook at the Myriad Group's Berkeley Bar and Grill. Shortly afterward, Tommy Hilfiger's secretary came in to ask if he would like to cook for her boss.
At the same time, he was approached by David Rabin, who was opening a restaurant and needed a chef. Mr. Rabin also had a headhunter seeking prospects. 
 Mr. Farnabe came out on top. He took both jobs, cooking during the day at Mr. Hilfiger's offices and at night at Mr. Rabin's Lotus, opening next month. He had made himself marketable and played his cards right, just like any young lawyer or investment banker trying to get ahead.
Mr. Farnabe's path represents just what has happened in the restaurant world in recent years. Chefs have gone from being essentially blue-collar workers to true professionals, as much in demand as athletes. Top players, like Daniel Boulud, Jean-Georges Vongerichten and Alice Waters, have become brand names, and their proteges, like Mr. Farnabe, use those brands as springboards.
The vibrant economy has only accelerated the shift, with restaurants opening seemingly by the second -- more than 250 restaurants opened last year in New York City, according to the Zagat Survey -- and with an American public that has more money and the ambition to eat well. Cooks who have polished resumes are more in demand than ever.
As a result, they are being lured away from these brand name restaurants to cook in private homes, where the work is less grueling and they can command higher salaries. At the same time, competition among restaurants to find and keep good cooks is intensifying.
"This is probably the most difficult labor market in any restaurateur's memory," said Dennis Lombardi, an analyst at Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based food-service consulting company. "We used to have an ample supply of skilled and motivated employees. Now, we don't."
Getting chefs' jobs used to be an informal process, driven largely by word of mouth. But now it is like any other highly evolved profession: there are headhunters and agents to help.
"Some of them say I'm their secret weapon," said Alfred Ehrlich, the owner of the Kitchen Maestro, an executive-chef search and consulting concern in New York City, speaking of restaurants. "And they don't want others to know about me." Mr. Ehrlich recently helped Patricia Yeo, the former chef de cuisine at Hawthorne Lane in San Francisco, become the chef at AZ, a restaurant opening in Chelsea next month.
Mr. Ehrlich, who was once a cook at La Reserve and worked in the wholesale division of Gourmet Garage, is well connected in the restaurant business. About a year and a half ago, after helping a number of chefs and restaurateurs find cooks as a favor, he decided to make a business of it. Some restaurants hire him for a single deal, paying him a percentage of the chef's first-year salary. But others, who want protection in the transient restaurant world, put him on a retainer, so that if the chef he finds leaves, he can search for a replacement. For Jack's Fifth, for instance, he found Herb Wilson to fill the chef's position. But Mr. Wilson stayed for just a few months. Mr. Ehrlich may soon have to find someone new.
"There's obviously a need," he said. "Every day I get faxes from people -- wish lists -- from chefs." Both restaurants and chefs come to him.
He is the reason Sam Hazen became the chef at Rue 57. Mr. Ehrlich heard that Mr. Hazen had left Tavern on the Green, and he knew that Marc Packer, a restaurateur opening Rue 57, was looking for a chef. He made the match for Mr. Packer.
Often, headhunting means poaching cooks from restaurants and trading them like athletes. Phillip Alfus, an owner of the Alfus Group, a Manhattan-based search firm, has found chefs for Tavern on the Green and the Russian Tea Room. He won't steal from friends like Daniel Boulud and Charlie Trotter, but "outside of that group," he said, "everybody is fair game to me."
Sherry Yard, the pastry chef at Spago Beverly Hills, has had headhunters take pastry chefs away from her. One went to the Ritz-Carlton on Maui, another to Patina in Los Angeles. Laurent Manrique, the chef at Campton Place in San Francisco, recently had a cook lured away.
An oral agreement is the traditional way to retain staff. Restaurants like Union Square Cafe and Chez Panisse in Berkeley, Calif., offer cooks benefits that are standard in other professions: medical insurance, for example, and paid vacations.
But they can't always offer what wealthy families hiring private chefs can. Gilbert Pilgram, the chef at Chez Panisse, had three of his line cooks leave last year, hired away by families.
"I can't say I wasn't frustrated when it happened," Mr. Pilgram said. "Chez has an appeal. And people with money wanted to hire senior cooks to be their private chefs."
Jennifer Sherman was one of them. She had cooked at Chez Panisse for seven years, working nine-hour days producing about 100 meals, when she left to work for a family. Now, she works about seven hours a day, cooking just dinner. The family she works for is well traveled and knowledgeable about food -- and is familiar with Chez Panisse and its bragging power. "They definitely get some mileage out of that, for sure," Ms. Sherman said.
Anne Dickey was another. She works for a family in the Bay Area. She gets to shop at the farmers' market, cooks just four days a week, makes twice as much money and, she said, finally has the energy to think about other things. "Restaurants can really suck the life out of you," she said.
Ms. Sherman and a third Chez Panisse cook found their jobs through Cindy Race and her partner, Susan Flynn, who three years ago started Four Star Private Chefs, a placement agency in San Francisco.
Ms. Race became a private chef herself five years ago, after 17 years in restaurants. It changed her life, she said. "I was finally able to drive a car from this decade."
Most private chefs interviewed for this article said they were earning at least twice what they made in restaurants and were working about a third fewer hours. In New York City, salaries for full-time private chefs hired through agencies start at about $55,000 a year, said Keith Greenhouse, an owner of the Pavillion Agency in Manhattan. They can go up to as much as $130,000. Salaries are comparable in Los Angeles, but lower in San Francisco, starting at around $45,000 for dinner only, Ms. Race said.
In 1998, the mean hourly wage for a restaurant cook in New York City, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, was $11 an hour, or $22,880 a year. And many cooks have hefty cooking school loans to repay.
The math is not difficult to do.
With the influx of new money in places like New York City and Silicon Valley, demand is booming. Steve Kelley, director of career services at Peter Kump's New York Cooking School, said he gets calls for private chefs all the time, most recently from young couples with children. He has placed about a dozen chefs in the last six months, including one with David Letterman.
Cindy Race also has a busy phone line. "And I have an unlisted phone number and I'm not in the Yellow Pages," she said. Many of her clients are couples in their 30's and 40's, looking for full- or part-time cooks.
"It's becoming a big status symbol," said Christian Paier, the owner of Private Chefs Inc., an agency in Beverly Hills. "It's like having a personal trainer. Now, anyone who can afford it wants to have their own chef."
Few of these families want just any chef. They want names -- brands, if you will -- that they can rely on. Ms. Race had a client who wanted a cook who had worked for Nobu. Mr. Greenhouse had one who wanted a cook from Bouley. Both found them.
Clients are getting younger and younger, said Jo Lynne Lockley, the owner of the Chefs' Professional Agency in San Francisco; many are in their early 30's. And they want young chefs. "These people hiring someone who had been an executive chef would seem like hiring their grandfather," she said. What they are getting is talent in the rough.
When Steve Kelley of Peter Kump's placed a cook with a family in Southampton, N.Y., the cook was offered jobs by two guests. Now, he cooks for the three families.
These part-time arrangements, agencies say, are becoming increasingly popular. Which is no surprise: it is much less expensive than eating in a restaurant, which in places like New York can easily cost $30 a person. For $200 to $250 a week, said Robin Kellner, the owner of the Robin Kellner Agency, a family can have three dinners prepared by an experienced cook.
James Rafferty left a position as the chef at Boughalem in Greenwich Village to become a private chef for a magazine publisher in New York City. Having Bouley on his resume, he thinks, helped him get the job.
He cooks lunch and dinner for the publisher five days a week and travels with him occasionally. When he goes skiing out west, Mr. Rafferty goes, too. And he snowboards in between meals. The stress at his new job, he said, is a fraction of what it was at Boughalem. He used to work 12-hour days, finishing at midnight, and was plagued with staff problems and tight costs. Now, he works seven-hour days, can experiment with different styles of cooking and has an unlimited food budget. He also gets to have dinner with his wife.
He got the job through Mr. Greenhouse at Pavillion. A few years ago, Mr. Greenhouse also arranged a job for Franklin Becker as a private chef for Ronald O. Perelman, the chairman of Revlon. Mr. Becker went into it after working at a club, and catering, he said, simply to save money. In less than two years, he did that, but there was more to it.
"It helped shape me," Mr. Becker said, "as an individual and as a cook."
And it provided the perfect steppingstone, which is why many cooks do it.
Mr. Becker parlayed his stint with Mr. Perelman into a job as the executive chef at Local, an ambitious restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. If he had stayed in that little-known club, he might still be there.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SECRET WEAPON -- Alfred Ehrlich, above, owns a chef search company in New York. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) He helped Patricia Yeo, below, become chef at AZ, opening in Chelsea. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. F6); WHAT STRESS? -- James Rafferty, a private chef, does not miss his former restaurant job. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F6); RESUMES -- Susan Flynn, left, and Cindy Race run a placement agency in San Francisco. Anne Dickey, below, cooks for a family in the Bay Area. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 
Drawing (Doug Jones)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MYRN (SWX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MYRIAD GROUP AG (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; WAGES AND SALARIES RESTAURANTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); WORKPLACE MORALE (67%); 

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA; BOULUD, DANIEL; VONGERICHTEN, JEAN-GEORGES; WATERS, ALICE TOMMY HILFIGER (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



294 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2137 words

HEADLINE: Betting the Farm On a New-Age Vision

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Va.

 BODY:
SUNRISE at Sunnyside Farms is greeted by a ritual that startles the uninitiated. Workers advance upon windowless structures on wheels that are scattered around the 539 acres and lower the sides, releasing thousands of clucking chickens eager for a good day's work at what they do best: eating bugs.
David Cole, venture capitalist, philanthropist and organic farmer, uses these coops on wheels -- chicken mobile units, they're called -- to move his chickens where the pecking is needed most. The mobile units are just one of many labor-savers he employs on the organic farm he started in 1995 in the middle of Rappahannock County, home to the very rich who have made their money elsewhere and to farmers who barely make a living. Like the cattle, sheep and goats that keep the pasture trimmed, the chickens take care of fertilizing it. 
 Like every aspect of his $11.5 million farm, the mobile units are state-of-the-art equipment intended to ensure the success of his experimental farm. Money is no object, and money is not the only objective.
The farm is not a rich man's hobby. It is a rich man's business, and Mr. Cole, who made his name as president of Internet services at America Online (and his money in a variety of other computer technology businesses), predicts confidently that Sunnyside will turn a profit by 2004.
In addition to its wagonloads of chickens, the farm has 424 head of Wagyu cattle (close relatives of the famous Japanese Kobe beef); 60 to 70 varieties of vegetables, herbs and flowers; and 8 to 10 varieties of berries, as well as pear, apple and cherry trees. It is experimenting with more than 200 kinds of fruits and vegetables.
But even more important to Mr. Cole is Sunnyside's role in promoting organic farming as economic savior. By helping local growers profit in an era when independent farms are struggling, he hopes to create a model for reviving depressed agricultural areas around the country.
The idea of saving a region through organic farming might once have sounded outlandish. But the demand for organic food nationwide is greater than the supply, and sales have increased by at least 20 percent annually for several years. Buyers looking for such food -- independently certified to be free of chemical pesticides, genetically engineered ingredients and antibiotics -- willingly pay a premium for it.
Mr. Cole, 47, calls his system network farming: a large central farm is the hub, with smaller nearby farms the spokes, their production marketed through the hub. Sunnyside's system is designed to show that diversified organic farming, with a mix of vegetables, fruits and animals, can be profitable while protecting the environment, not only from tract housing but also from the damage done to it by traditional farming methods. Such a system would be particularly useful in helping small organic farmers compete.
The concept is not new. Walnut Acres Organic Farms in Pennsylvania, which Mr. Cole just bought, operates in the same fashion. But Sunnyside was set up to be an experimental demonstration farm.
"What he is doing is really rare," said Katherine DiMatteo, executive director of the Organic Trade Association. "That he has the ability to have this diversity on his farm makes it unique. It totally encompasses the breadth of on-farm innovation and research. He is really taking new and old ideas and combining all that information into a full farm approach."
So far three small farms have signed on with Sunnyside, and conversations with a dozen more farmers are under way. The farm pays to educate them in converting to organic techniques and gaining organic certification and gives them access to the expensive equipment needed to run an organic farm. It also pays them 20 to 30 percent more than they would get if they were selling conventional food and, more important, gets their products to consumers.
"A weakness of a lot of farmers is marketing," said Brian Cramer, the gardener and orchard production manager at Sunnyside. Selling at farmers' markets or farm stands, with no middlemen, "is always preferable," he said, "but some farmers don't want to do it."
"Some don't have time to do it," he said, "so they leave it to someone else, and they get taken advantage of."
In the summer Sunnyside is opening a market in an 1835 building Mr. Cole is restoring in the center of the tiny town of Washington, Va., less than a block from his most prestigious customer, the Inn at Little Washington. Its farmers' products will be sold there, at a farmers' market in Washington, D.C., and to restaurants, the Fresh Fields natural supermarket chain and an organic wholesaler who sells up and down the East Coast. There will be more than 30 varieties of tomatoes, 15 different peppers and three dozen kinds of greens.
"Eventually we could have 8 or 10 spoke farms, and that could have a tremendous economic impact on the community," said Mr. Cole, who has restored the 1720 house on the farm, one of several places he lives with his wife of 30 years and the youngest of their four children. (One son works for Sunnyside full time, another during the summer.)
The original 1,000-acre farm had been in the same family for 276 years. When Mr. Cole bought half of it, in 1995, the land had been worn out by conventional farming. It took two years of intensive working and enriching the soil for the first earthworms to return, and Sunnyside was certified organic in 1999.
Ms. DiMatteo, of the Organic Trade Association, said she doubts that anyone has ever started an organic farm from scratch on so grand a scale, and while she greatly admires what Mr. Cole is trying to do, she is not certain it will succeed.
"People either go into organic farming gradually or specialize in one crop while they figure out crop rotations," she said. "Wealthy people do organic farming, but profitability is not what it's about, and he's setting a goal of a working farm that is economically feasible.
"This is the food industry. It's not like the technology industry. You can't force nature to perform according to some bottom-line expectations."
John Burns, a consultant who was hired by Mr. Cole in 1995 but left after a falling-out two years later, agreed. "When there is such an excess amount of capital around," he said, "the solution seems to be spend more money, get more people and get more equipment, as opposed to scaling back and concentrating on fewer things. It's the mentality of his other enterprises: you get enough brain power and enough people and you can get it solved, and farming isn't that way. It's the cycle of life and nature; it's not microchip speed."
Mr. Cole, though, maintains that with enough money and his successful business experience he can help nature along. For instance, his recent purchase of Walnut Acres, the oldest organic food mail order company in the country, provides Sunnyside with built-in marketing advantages.
He has also scoured the country for the best people in organic production, like Wes Beall, a cow's version of the horse whisperer: cattle trust him. To assure a steady supply of loyal farmworkers, who are recruited from two villages in Mexico, Mr. Cole provides benefits including trips home for two or three months at a time and 401(k) plans, matching the workers' contributions.
Mr. Cole has also planted several varieties of dwarf fruit stock to see which grow best. These varieties, Mr. Cramer said, bear more fruit more quickly, and are easier to pick and to spray with organic pest controls. Many are heirloom varieties like Roxbury Russet and Grimes Golden apples and newer varieties like Liberty that are immune to a serious apple disease called scab.
Sunnyside has its own weather station. It alerts the orchardist when to expect an outbreak of pests and prepare for it. For example, it can pinpoint the moment when the Japanese beetle's larvae are about to emerge. While the commercial grower is bringing out the pesticides, Mr. Cole is sending out the chickens.
The farm uses animals in an intensive grazing rotation, a technique now being reintroduced into organic agriculture. "In order to save human labor we enlist animal labor," Mr. Cole said, "by having them do what they do naturally." For a day or two cattle graze on high grasses in a particular field; when they move on, the sheep and goats come in for a day to eat everything else. They are followed by the chickens, which scatter the manure left behind by the other animals as they eat the weed seeds out of it, at the same time depositing their own nitrogen-rich manure. (The chickens also provide eggs for the farm to sell.) Then the rotation begins again.
All of these approaches will be shared at the Sunnyside Institute, to be built on the farm. It will provide information not available from federal and state agriculture agencies, which have spent little time or money studying organic farming.
"No one has ever coordinated all this information," Ms. DiMatteo said.
Mr. Cole traces his interest in the environment to his childhood in Hawaii. His family has financed global conservation efforts for 15 years, most recently through the Cole Family Foundation. He chose Virginia for his experiment because of its climate and its proximity to one of his homes. He found the farm through a friend who is now a neighbor, John Sawhill, the president and chief executive of the environmental group the Nature Conservancy.
In an interview for "Dream Makers," by Michele Hunt (Davies-Black Publishing, 1998), Mr. Cole said entrepreneurs need to redefine capital to include not only money but the earth itself and stop treating it like an unlimited resource. "Instead of saying the world is going to hell in a handbasket, you have to say we can do something about this. We can change our relationship to the earth."
Like any rich mogul who comes to town and buys up all the available land, Mr. Cole has his detractors. But even those who have parted ways over differences of opinion admire what he is trying to do.
Mr. Burns, who quit as a consultant, said Mr. Cole is "brilliant." But he added: "He makes it hard for some people to deal with him, because you have to do it his way. He wants to do too much too fast. If I'd had my druthers, I would have managed the farm for three years without growing a thing, but he wanted to have crops in 18 months."
In early April, Mr. Cole was invited to lecture at the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London on organic food trends in the United States. In his speech he described his attempt to fuse two totally different cultures: the high-powered, fast-paced world of technology and marketing and a slow-paced place from the past where success is based on the production yields of organic farming.
Mr. Cole leaves no doubt of his certitude that he can apply the principles of the Internet, where rewards can come at warp speed and most problems can be remedied with brain power and capital, to farming, where even the best-laid plans are subject to the vagaries of nature.
"He wants to do good, and he really sees this as an important step," Mr. Burns said. "And being a leader in a previous industrial incarnation, he wants to do the same thing in the organic world. But organic mogul may be an oxymoron."
 
Same Idea, Different Scale
 FOR organic gardeners operating on a smaller scale, Brian Cramer, the gardener at Sunnyside, offers a few techniques. Some are old, some new.
Flaming newly emerging weeds with a propane torch is particularly useful with crops slow to germinate, giving them a chance to grow.
Planting crops in the carrot family -- dill, parsley, cilantro, Queen Anne's lace -- attracts beneficial insects for other crops nearby.
Turnips, broccoli, radishes, cabbage and brussels sprouts should be planted in the fall because the flea beetle, which attacks them, comes early in the spring but goes into decline by the end of August.
Certain crops can be covered with plastic to protect the plants from wind and insects, provide a few degrees of frost protection and hasten ripening. This is particularly useful for valuable crops and those especially susceptible to insects. At Sunnyside, for example, plastic is used to protect eggplant.
Pheromone lures, which contain substances secreted by animals, can be placed in the garden not only to lure pests into sticky traps but also to confuse males so they cannot find females and mate. They are as effective as many pesticides.
Certain crops affect the growth or germination of other plants around them. On a farm, residues of rye can stop certain weeds from germinating; in a garden, sunflowers can do the same. A byproduct of corn syrup, corn gluten meal, inhibits the germination of many common weeds. It is a promising herbicide, and it also fertilizes. MARIAN BURROS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A PROTOTYPE -- David Cole wants to make his Virginia farm a model for organic farming. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. F1); GO WHERE THE BUGS ARE -- David Cole with his mobile chicken coops at Sunnyside Farms. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. F12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUNNYSIDE ARMS (WASHINGTON, VA) AOL INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNNYSIDE ARMS (WASHINGTON, VA)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; ORGANIC FOOD WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); POULTRY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); MAMMALS (88%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (76%); PESTICIDES (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); BEEF (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%); 

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN; COLE, DAVID ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



295 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: To Nurture a Teacher

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "A Few Words in Praise of Unexceptional Schools" (Lessons column, April 5), by Nicholas D. Kristof:
Mr. Kristof reminds us that there is a difference between education and training. In a society that measures success by how much money a recent college graduate earns, education should not be measured solely in short-term economic terms. 
 Education is a continuing process of growth and understanding of one's role in a complex world. Education at its best helps us develop our full potential as creative people prepared to contribute as parents, spouses and citizens.
The teacher who sparks the curiosity and instills a drive in a young person to learn must be appreciated and nurtured. Economic measures and test scores are only part of the educational process.
 
JOSEPH S. GOLDMAN
Woodland Hills, Calif., April 9, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, JOSEPH S NICHOLAS D KRISTOF (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



296 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
No Tipping, Please

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
More than 20 years ago I fell in love, as young social scientists will, with nonlinearity -- and in particular with the idea that large effects could have small causes. I was inspired by the economist Thomas Schelling's classic little 1978 book "Micro motives and macrobehavior," with its illustrative models of how seemingly trivial individual concerns (such as a mild desire to have some neighbors similar to yourself) could lead to extreme social outcomes (such as complete racial segregation). And I dreamed of a theory of everything -- of fashions and fads, booms and slumps, economic miracles and social catastrophes.
So when I read "The Tipping Point," the new best seller by Malcolm Gladwell, I sighed for my lost innocence. Mr. Gladwell is a very good writer, but he is also lucky: he has not yet been forced to confront the sad truth that it is far easier to tell nonlinear stories than to confirm them, let alone use them as a basis for action. 
 For those who haven't yet heard about it, "The Tipping Point" -- subtitled "How little things can make a big difference" -- has a pretty good chance of becoming one of those books that, arriving at just the right moment, reinforce a new public mood. After decades of disillusionment with social engineering, of backlash against the Great Society and all that, there is a new mood of social activism abroad in the land; and Mr. Gladwell offers hope that "tightly focused, targeted interventions" might work after all. So his book might be to the next decade what Michael Harrington's "The Other America" was to the 1960's.
Mr. Gladwell's main idea is an analogy between social movements and epidemics. With stories that range from the sudden resurgence of Hush Puppies as fashion footwear to the recent decline in New York's crime rate, he argues that behavior patterns, like viruses, can spread from a few individuals through a large population. (Oddly, he makes no mention of the biologist Richard Dawkins, whose analogy between "memes" -- infectious ideas -- and viruses had, I thought, itself spread widely even among the literati). And a small change in the environment, which makes a particular behavior pattern just a bit more likely to persist in one individual or be adopted by another, can sometimes cause sudden, large social change.
It's an idea that, in some broad and general sense, is certainly true. And if you have never thought about such things before, it can be mind-opening. But a word of caution: If you accept Mr. Gladwell's conclusion that the analogy between epidemics and social change offers "a reaffirmation of the potential for change and the power of intelligent action," you are likely to be bitterly disappointed.
Why do I say this? Because when it comes to the idea that big events can have small causes, economists -- who ought to have a simpler problem, because they deal with the cruder emotions -- have been there and done that, repeatedly, for 60 years or more. And by and large the theories haven't worked.
For example, surely the spread of the Great Depression from Wall Street to the world at large was a sort of epidemic; more recently, the 1997-98 crisis in Asia was almost invariably described with terms like "financial contagion." Everyone who thinks about it seriously realizes that such crises must involve some kind of self-reinforcing process. But the ingenious "nonlinear business cycle theory" that briefly flourished in the 1940's turned out to be no help in predicting or preventing future recessions. I have a personal stake in believing that the currency crisis models some of us devised in the midst of Asia's turmoil will have a better fate; but history is not on my side.
Another example: Economists once thought that a brief "big push," perhaps concentrated on a few key sectors, could jump-start a stagnant economy into rapid modernization. But none of the deliberate efforts to engineer an economic takeoff delivered on their promise; when economic miracles like Korea's sudden surge in the 1960's (or our own recent productivity revolution) occurred, they have always come as a surprise.
I'm not saying that "focused, targeted interventions" aren't worth trying. But don't count on much success. Little things can indeed make a big difference; but they're usually not the things you were watching, or the difference you expected. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TRENDS (88%); WRITERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CRIME RATES (73%); FOOTWEAR (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RACE & RACISM (55%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL; GLADWELL, MALCOLM PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



297 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: All Boats Rise. Now What?

BYLINE: By William Julius Wilson; William Julius Wilson, a Harvard University professor, is the author of "The Bridge Over the Racial Divide: Rising Inequality and Coalition Politics."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Thanks to the economic boom, and despite much hand-wringing to the contrary, there are signs that America's rising income inequality that began in the early 1970's is finally in remission.
Yet this good news gives rise to worrisome questions: Will this new economy eventually produce the sort of progress for most families that prevailed in the two and a half decades prior to 1970, a pattern in which a rising tide did indeed lift all boats? Or will the government's social and economic policies prevent us from duplicating this prolonged pattern of broadly equal family economic gains? 
 Between 1947 and 1970 all income groups in America experienced economic advancement. In fact, poor families recorded higher growth in annual real income than other families. However, in the early 1970's this pattern changed. The families in the higher income groups, especially the top 20 percent, continued to enjoy steady income gains, adjusted for inflation, while families in the lowest 40 percent experienced declining or stagnating incomes.
This growing disparity in income, which continued through the mid-1990's, was in large part connected to a slowdown in productivity growth. Profits and wages depend largely on how much we produce, and in those years productivity slowed and less revenue was produced, which put downward pressure on wages.
Then, beginning in late 1995, productivity began to surge, averaging 2.6 percent annual growth since then, and reaching an astonishing 6.4 percent annual rate in the last quarter of 1999. Given the current rate of productivity growth, a rising gross domestic product and our sustained low unemployment rates, the most optimistic scenario is that this new economy will eventually produce rates of family economic progress similar to those of the 50's and 60's.
The signs are encouraging. Real wage growth has been quite impressive since 1997, especially for low-wage workers. The ranks of the long-term jobless -- those in the labor market who have been out of work for more than six months -- plummeted from almost two million in 1993 to just 637,000 today. The unemployment rate of high-school dropouts declined from almost 12 percent in 1992 to less than 7 percent now. The unemployment rate among blacks is 7.3 percent, the lowest since the Bureau of Labor Statistics began compiling comparable unemployment data by race in 1972.
So, in the face of all these promising numbers, can those of us concerned about inequality finally relax? Not yet. Productivity growth is only part of the picture. The future of ordinary families, especially poor working families, depends a great deal on how the government decides to react to this new economy.
As the economist James K. Galbraith has pointed out, what is unique about the 1950's and 60's is that the government's policies -- social as well as economic -- were integral to the gains experienced by all families. Low-wage workers gained from a wide range of protections, including steady increases in the minimum wage, and the government made full employment a high priority. Throughout the 60's these policies were accompanied by federal wage-price guidelines that helped check inflation. There was also a strong union movement that ensured higher wages and more non-wage benefits for ordinary workers.
However, in the 1970's and 80's things moved in a different direction for lower-wage workers. The union movement began its downward spiral, wage-price guidelines were eventually dropped, and macroeconomic policy was no longer geared toward tight labor markets. Monetary policy became dominant, and it was focused on defeating inflation above all else.
As part of the "Reagan experiment," the tax structure became more regressive and Social Security taxes increased. Furthermore, congressional resistance to raising the minimum wage and expanding the earned income tax credit threatened the economic security of disadvantaged families.
More recently, the fate of the working poor has rarely been discussed when the Federal Reserve Board, worried about the possibility of rising inflation, has raised interest rates to slow down the economy. But now, with high productivity keeping inflation in check, at least there has been a healthy debate among economists and financial analysts over the Fed's dogged decision to continue raising interest rates.
History shows that trends of rising inequality are associated not only with economic changes, but also with the eroding strength of what the economist Frank Levy of M.I.T. calls "the nation's equalizing institutions." These include public education, unions, the welfare state broadly defined, international trade regulations and so on.
These equalizing institutions were much stronger from 1947 to 1970 than they are today. And they will have to be strengthened to ensure that the rising inequality remains in remission and a broadly equal pattern of family economic progress can be restored in the new economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Gretchen Smelter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); STATISTICS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (50%); 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



298 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Ethan Allen Going a Bit West for Its Flagship Store

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
For many furniture retailers, a comparatively low rent that permits a large display area is crucial to success. So Ethan Allen Interiors, the manufacturer and retailer of home furnishings and furniture products, has leased 20,000 square feet way west in Manhattan, far from the usual retail-chain haunts.
The new space is on the ground and first floors of 101 West End Avenue, a 504-apartment twin-tower rental building nearing completion between 64th and 65th Streets. 
 "Furniture retailers can't afford to pay a significant per-square-foot rent," said Joanne Podell, a vice president at New Spectrum Realty, who represented Ethan Allen in the deal. "So much floor space is taken up with the furniture, so the sales per square foot are not as great as with, say, a clothing store. And this site gives Ethan Allen an opportunity to display its entire line, rather than to have to selectively choose which items they can present in the showroom."
Ms. Podell said that the asking annual rent was $45 a square foot for the ground floor and $35 for the second-floor space, and that the actual rent, which she would not disclose, was lower.
"It would have probably been triple that or more in other parts of town," she said. "To be on Broadway on the Upper West Side, the asking rent could be $200 a square foot. And then you have to hope for a blended rent for the different floors, and it's a challenge finding the right amount of space. And you have to minimize your space and not put in the full furniture line. We looked at a number of places on Broadway, but the economics didn't work."
West End Avenue in the mid-60's has not been a hub for national retail chain stores. It is primarily a residential area, a couple of long blocks distant from the commercial strip of Broadway and Lincoln Center, though it also houses ABC television buildings, including a studio just west on 66th Street in which the soap opera "All My Children" is shot.
A Consolidated Edison control center is between 65th and 66th, with a neighborhood deli, a bicycle shop and the Ideal Tile and Stone Gallery just to the south, and a Western Beef supermarket by the West End Towers residential development at 62nd Street. North of 66th is Lincoln Towers, an 8-building, 4,000-unit co-op complex that stretches to 70th Street. And west of Lincoln Towers are the first completed buildings of the large Trump Place residential development.
Ms. Podell said Ethan Allen, which is based in Danbury, Conn., viewed the site as "destination driven," adding that "the company is a national chain with a large advertising base, and when you have that, the consumer can come to you."
"People travel to buy their furniture," she said. "It's a thought process. They spend time deciding where to visit and what products they like. They don't just walk down Broadway and decide to buy a sofa. It's a planned family activity."
The site on West End Avenue, she said, is "easily accessible -- it's a short walk from the West 66th Street subway." And, she said, "there's a tremendous amount of residential development on and near the avenue, with Trump Place, West End Towers and the long-established Lincoln Towers, all of which will add to the customer base."
The West End Avenue store, which Ms. Podell said was expected to open in the fall, will be Ethan Allen's third in Manhattan and will be its corporate flagship. A company-owned store is at Third Avenue and 65th Street, and a franchise store is at Lexington Avenue and 32nd Street. Kelly Maicon, a spokeswoman for Ethan Allen in Danbury, said the company would not comment on the new store.
Alan Victor, an executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation, a retail brokerage company, said he thought that the area had the "right ingredients for Ethan Allen."
"There's a lot of new construction to support the store," Mr. Victor said, "a lot of people in the area who will need furniture. The number of new residential units that have gone up there is extraordinary. The demographics are very strong."
The growing population on and near West End Avenue is also bringing a large new supermarket to the neighborhood. Barry Rosner, a senior managing director of GVA Williams Real Estate, the leasing agent for 80 West End Avenue, a commercial building between 63rd and 64th Streets that is home to Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, said a 25,000-square-foot Food Emporium would open later this year on the building's long-vacant ground floor.
Mr. Victor said he did not think Ethan Allen's arrival marked the start of a retail renaissance on the avenue. "I don't think it's an indicator that West End is going to develop into a retail corridor," he said. "I think it's still going to be local and destination driven. But there's a chance that some stores in the furnishings category, stores related to home use, might be interested."
Ms. Podell said she thought other home furnishing companies might join Ethan Allen in the neighborhood. "I don't think it's the kind of area where you put the Gap," she said. "But what happens with home furnishing companies is that they tend to cluster. So others may follow." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ETH (NYSE) (58%); ED (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (58%); NAICS337122 NONUPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (58%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES, FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (58%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (58%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (58%); AQUANTIVE INC (57%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); FURNITURE MFG (90%); FURNITURE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PER SQUARE FOOT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN JOANNE PODELL (69%); ALAN VICTOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



299 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Board Reports Record Income From Rent-Regulated Housing

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
The landlords of the one million rent-stabilized apartments in New York City enjoyed record-high income coupled with the smallest increase in expenses in nearly a decade in 1998, according to the latest annual report issued yesterday at a meeting of the city's Rent Guidelines Board.
Tenant groups said that the figures showed little if any need to raise rents, while landlords said they were only rebounding from the recession and pointed to recent increases in fuel costs for heat and hot water. 
 The rent board's staff conducted the study in preparation for the annual decision in June on whatever rent increase it might authorize for the coming year. Besides that study, the board gives major consideration to its annual index of operating prices, a report due for release on April 25.
The income-and-expenses study covered 1998, the most recent year for which figures were available, and was based on a survey of more than 10,000 buildings by the city's tax assessors.
Net operating income -- the difference between income and operating expenses -- jumped 11.8 percent, slightly more than the previous record of 11.4 from 1997. Net operating income is used for mortgage payments, building improvements and profit.
The report called the findings "the highest rate of net operating income growth found in the nine years" that the agency has tracked the statistics. It added, "These figures suggest that New York's stabilized housing market has emerged from the deep recession of the early 1990's."
One tenant advocate in the audience, Kenneth D. Schaeffer of the Legal Aid Society, said: "I'm struck by the huge increase in net income, double digits two years running. Last year they did better than ever, and now they're doing 11 percent better than that." He said that past rent increases adopted by the board had "overcompensated" landlords.
But one landlord representative on the board, Harold A. Lubell, spoke in biblical terms, likening the turnaround to a belated feast "following seven years of famine." Another board member noted that despite the upturn, 7 percent of the buildings were still running deficits.
Citywide, the average monthly rent collected on rent-stabilized apartments in 1998 was $681, an increase of 5.5 percent over 1997. The study attributed the higher collections to fewer vacancies, fewer tenants in arrears, rent deregulation, general rent increases and increases for improvements. Among the boroughs, Manhattan had the highest average monthly rent collection, $892; followed by Queens, $609; Brooklyn, $536; and the Bronx, $508. A figure was not given for Staten Island because of the small number of stabilized apartments there.
Expenses on rent-stabilized apartments averaged $459 a month per apartment citywide, an increase of 1.5 percent, which the report said was the smallest in the nine years that it has recorded the figures. The trend was ascribed to a dip in insurance, utility and fuel bills in 1998. Manhattan had the highest costs, $586; followed by Queens, $406; the Bronx, $365; and Brooklyn, $364. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING RENT CONTROL (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TAX ASSESSORS (52%); LEGAL AID (50%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



300 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: A Tale of Muscle and Morale;
Why Home Depot Employs Olympic Athletes

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
When the Olympic Games open in Australia this summer, about 30 athletes will represent Egypt. Sixty will make up the contingent from Turkey. Eighty will run, jump, swim and play for Ireland.
And nearly 100 will make up the delegation from Home Depot. 
 The company's orange logo will not appear on the Olympic athletes' uniforms, of course, and television commentators probably won't even mention the giant retailer's name. But here in Home Depot's home base and elsewhere around North America, thousands of company employees will stay up late to root for the athletes on TV and get up the next morning to devour the accounts of the competitors' exploits in the sports pages.
That, it turns out, is the audience Home Depot executives are trying to reach. When a company employs 210,000 people in an industry with one of the highest turnover rates in the country -- in the midst of one of the tightest job markets in more than three decades -- it does what it has to do to hold onto every last one of them.
So, at a cost of several million dollars, Home Depot has hired 116 Olympic athletes from the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico -- more than all the other 50 or so companies in the official Olympic Games jobs program employ combined -- to pace its floors and advise customers on everything from screws to lawn mowers. It is using their presence not to increase sales in a national advertising campaign, but to pump up employee morale.
In this economy, in other words, the imperatives of management can trump the demands of marketing.
Home Depot has spread the 116 Olympic contenders among its 958 North American stores, where local managers enlist them to motivate employees and attract new ones. The athletes autograph their colleagues' aprons, and those who have won medals show them off at company parties. Company managers point to the athletes as real-life examples of corporate nostrums like "going for the gold" and "giving it your all."
Dick Hammill, Home Depot's senior vice president for marketing, who oversees the program from company headquarters, said of the athletes: "They're disciplined. They're on time. They work hard. It rubs off."
Some of the Home Depot athletes will fail to qualify for the Sydney Games. But because national Olympic committees require that athletes be highly ranked in order to participate in the jobs program, most should qualify, officials said. Ranging from unheralded rowers and wrestlers to stars like the runner Butch Reynolds, the athletes work about 20 hours a week for about $400 and spend the rest of their time training.
Other companies that have been in the jobs program, like United Parcel Service, have run TV ads promoting their athletes to the general public. In contrast, Home Depot is only now planning its first commercial starring one of its Olympians -- and the setting is expected to be a send-off party a store gives to wish good luck to an athlete on the way to an event.
So intent is Home Depot on finding qualified employees that it has even made some of its commercials the equivalent of help-wanted ads. Earlier this year, for example, it began broadcasting a spot that showed employees and ended with the words, "The Home Depot. Great Careers Built Here."
Other companies are pursuing a similar strategy. Last year, McDonald's ran a television ad, set to feel-good music, in which captions like "future software engineer" and "future elementary school teacher" appeared under its young burger flippers. At Hewlett-Packard, Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive, has said that a primary target of its current television campaign that describes the company as "the original start-up" is the company's work force, which could be easy pickings for dot-com firms.
A host of companies, including both Home Depot and Microsoft, are even starting to use outdoor billboards to seek job candidates. Around the country, spending on help-wanted billboards almost tripled last year, to $16 million, according to the Outdoor Advertising Association of America.
Home Depot, however, is in a category all its own. At a time when few skilled workers remain unemployed, it aims to more than double its current payroll, to nearly 500,000, within four years. That is a monumental task for a company in a traditional field that pays entry-level employes about $10 an hour to perform work that can be both exhausting and repetitive.
To maintain the gung-ho workplace culture that many experts say has helped fuel Home Depot's remarkable growth, the company has had to attack the great bane of retailers: high employee turnover. For years, executives have held pep rallies and allowed store managers to spend the company's charity money on local causes that are often dear to the hearts of employees. "It's the internal people that are the target" of many Home Depot initiatives, said Frederick F. Reichheld, a consultant at Bain & Company and author of "The Loyalty Effect" (Harvard Business School Press, 1996) who has studied the company.
That is the rationale behind the company's Olympic sponsorship. The retailer paid $40 million to sign up as a sponsor eight years ago, when Atlanta was getting ready to be host of the 1996 Summer Olympics and the company was expanding across the country, Mr. Hammill said. By the time the Atlanta Games opened, Home Depot had more than 90 American athletes on its payroll. Combining results from the Atlanta Games and the 1994 and 1998 Winter Olympics, its athletes have won 16 gold medals, 6 silvers and 9 bronzes -- more medals in the four-year span than Belgium, Denmark or Britain has brought home.
In the last two years, the company has created similar versions of the jobs program in Canada and Puerto Rico.
For all the glory that the Home Depot athletes aspire to, they follow a pretty ordinary workplace routine. On a recent Wednesday, 27-year-old Derek Mills, a runner, spent the morning and early afternoon stocking shelves and answering questions in the electrical department of the store in Alpharetta, Ga., an Atlanta suburb. Wearing an orange Home Depot apron with "Hi, I'm Derek" emblazoned on it, he paused at one point to tell a colleague using a forklift that he was about to bump against a ceiling lamp and send a stack of outdoor barbecue grills tumbling to the floor.
There was little to suggest that Mr. Mills was the owner of a gold medal for the 1996 400-meter relay -- until one of his colleagues walked by and said, "Hey, Speedy!"
The nickname is apt, in more ways than one. Within an hour, Mr. Mills was driving 25 miles to a training session on the campus of Georgia Tech, where he received an engineering degree in 1995. The next day, he was crossing the Atlantic, off to Glasgow for an indoor track and field competition.
Like other athletes in the Olympic jobs program, Mr. Mills continues to draw his pay when he is on the road. It is a perquisite that participants, injury-prone and financially strapped as many of them are, greatly treasure.
Mr. Mills, for example, has suffered nagging hamstring and Achilles' tendon injuries the last three years, making it more difficult for him to earn appearance fees at track meets. "It's not the early stages for my career anymore," he said ruefully.
For athletes in less lucrative sports, the wages can make an even bigger difference. "I would not be training if I didn't have this job; it's too much of a struggle," said Julia Chilicki, 28, a rower who was in the 1996 Olympics and recently transferred from a Home Depot in Massachusetts to one in South Carolina so she could train with her team.
Indeed, Home Depot is one of the few big successes that the Olympic jobs program can claim. J. C. Penney, part of the program since its founding in 1977, now has 16 athletes on its payroll. But all other companies in the program limit themselves to just a few athletes, given their unpredictable schedules and the prospect of paying them for hours they do not work.
As a result, many of the 600 American athletes who will be in Sydney -- as well as hundreds of others who are training but will fail to qualify -- cobble together part-time jobs and appearance fees to make ends meet.
In return for their pay, Home Depot's athletes take a public role as company cheerleaders. Mr. Mills, for example, went to his store's annual party last year dressed in his track uniform and with his gold medal hanging around his neck. "He let everybody touch it," said Craig Denton, a colleague who himself was a member of the Olympic jobs program as a kayaker. Mr. Mills also starred in a mock newscast that was broadcast to all 210,000 employees in advance of a recent videotaped speech by Arthur Blank, chief executive of Home Depot.
The company's generosity toward its Olympic athletes -- paying them a week's wages for half a week's work and keeping the checks coming when they are traveling -- clearly has the potential for creating resentment among the rank and file. But that has not happened, employees say, largely because the regular workers look up to the athletes and realize how hard they have to work at their training.
"Years from now, I may be able to tell my kids I knew someone who won an Olympic medal," said Richard Faber, who works alongside Colleen Rosensteel, a member of the women's judo team, in Palatine, Ill. "Everybody's living a little vicariously through Colleen."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julia Chilicki, right, an Olympic rower, at work at the Home Depot in Aiken, S.C. "I would not be training if I didn't have this job," she said.; Ms. Chilicki at her other job, on the Sa-vannah River. She recently transferred from a Home Depot in Massachusetts so she could train with her team. (Photographs by Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Company Teams"
The United States Olympic Committee runs a jobs program for its most highly ranked athletes. Home Depot, which employs more of the Olympic contenders than all other companies combined, hopes to foster loyalty and team spirit among its work force of more than 200,000 people.
 
Top five employers of U.S. Olympic hopefuls
 
Home Depot: 100
J.C. Penney: 16
U.S. West: 5
Olympic Athletic Club: 3
Ocean Power Technologies: 2
(Sources: Home Depot; United States Olympic Committee)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Retail's Woes"
Total number of employees who left or were asked to leave in 1999, as a share of each industry's work force.
 
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
 
Retail: 69
Consumer products: 33
Banking: 27
Services: 27
Medical devices: 22
Telecommunications: 21
Manufacturing: 20
Average: 20
Hospitals/healthcare: 19
Metals and mining: 16
Semiconductors: 15
Insurance: 15
Pharmaceuticals: 15
Government: 13
Utilities: 8
Aerospace: 7
(Source: Saratoga Institute)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (94%); UPS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (94%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (94%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (50%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (94%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (50%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; OLYMPIC GAMES; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2000); HIRING AND PROMOTION; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE OLYMPICS (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); WORKPLACE MORALE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WRESTLING (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



301 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
If you can't remember what kind of car you're driving, you may have been on the road too long.

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. Joe Sharkey's e-mail is jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FREQUENT business travelers, who tend to spend a lot of time alone on the road, increasingly are congregating at various Internet sites to share practical information and, given the inexorable relationship between humor and adversity, crack jokes. Here, culled from postings in various business-travel chat rooms, news groups and bulletin boards (primarily www.flyertalk .com, sponsored by the publisher of InsideFlyer Magazine), is a Top 10 list that could be titled: "You Know You're a Hard-Core Business Traveler If . . ."
1. You've noticed that despite America's reputation as a melting pot, some people in some cities bear a frightening resemblance to one another. 
 2. You walk out into the hotel parking lot and have no idea of the make, model or color of your rental car.
3. You are amazed by people who cannot pack a week's worth of clothing and needed work items into a single rollerboard and a carry-on bag.
4. You know the menu by heart at every TGI Friday's, Bennigan's, Applebee's, Ruby Tuesday's and Olive Garden.
5. You've driven more models of cars than Consumer Reports magazine.
6. You can tell at a glance which customs line has the time-wasting troublemakers queued up in it.
7. You aren't fazed by writing checks to American Express or Visa every month for $5,000 or more.
8. You actually know the names of all the meteorologists on the Weather Channel.
9. You can recite the safety-instruction spiel word-for-word along with the flight attendant.
10.You press "9" on your home phone before dialing a number.
 
Side Trips
The average daily room rates for hotels in major cities in the United States grew by 4.4 percent during the second half of 1999 from the comparable period in 1998, according to PKF Consulting's Hospitality Research Group. Among the reasons the research firm cited for this increase, which occurred despite a continuing oversupply of hotel rooms and slight declines in occupancy rates, was the "wealth effect" in a booming economy that has prompted "a loosening of tight corporate travel budgets and personal pocketbooks." Reflecting this, higher-priced hotels are faring best right now.
The annual airline quality rating study jointly conducted by the business school at Wichita State University and the Aviation Institute at the University of Nebraska always gets a lot of publicity with its customer-service performance rankings of the top 10 airlines in the United States in areas such as on-time arrival, boarding availability and mishandled baggage.
But the 2000 survey, which placed Southwest Airlines in first place and UAL's United Airlines last, has some footnotes and observations intended to put the overall industry on notice. Among them: "Continued declining industry performance quality in 1999 gives cause for Congress to again seriously consider the passage of an Airline Passengers' Bill of Rights" that would provide an enforceable alternative to existing in-house attempts by the airlines to define standards for handling customer complaints.
Furthermore, the study warns, the decline in comfort and reliability in air travel is leading to "consumer retaliation" that shows up in a doubling of informal complaints made to the Transportation Department.
The upshot, according to the study is that "soon, consumers will become driven by price and schedule only" without regard to loyalty for any particular airline.
The study also faults the industry for "targeting" regional and start-up airlines with practices like temporarily adding flights to block upstart competitors.
AirTran Airways is accusing Northwest Airlines of trying to do just that. AirTran recently filed a complaint with the government saying that Northwest "dumped" seats onto its Minneapolis-Atlanta routes to thwart AirTran's plan to introduce flights on that route in June, using 100-seat Boeing 717 aircraft.
"This over-aggressive capacity increase eliminates the possibility for AirTran to profitably enter the market," AirTran said in a statement. But Northwest denied acting unfairly toward AirTran, saying that it filed for expanded service on the Minneapolis-Atlanta routes in mid-February -- weeks before AirTran filed for its new routes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RT (NYSE) (55%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); LUV (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PKF CONSULTING; WITCHITA STATE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA RUBY TUESDAY INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%); WITCHITA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); WITCHITA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PKF CONSULTING; WITCHITA STATE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA WITCHITA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); WITCHITA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS AIRLINES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (74%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (74%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); METEOROLOGY (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); RANKINGS (61%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



302 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: James Marston Fitch, 90, Architect and Preservationist

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
James Marston Fitch, an architect whose writings and teaching helped transform historic preservation from a dilettante's pastime into a vigorous, broadly based cultural movement, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
Less interested in where Washington slept than in how ordinary people built their homes and workplaces -- and what lessons modern architects could draw from the most modest and common building types -- Mr. Fitch was the outspoken antithesis of a freeze-it-in-amber sentimentalist. 
 Instead he argued that a respect for older buildings made environmental and economic sense. And he broadened the notion of what constituted important historical resources to include "vernacular" buildings, structures like the 19th-century cast-iron industrial lofts of SoHo, which were not designed in high style yet spoke eloquently about the cultures that created them.
"The ultimate task of architecture is to act in favor of human beings," Mr. Fitch said in the newly revised and updated edition of his 1947 work, "American Building: The Environmental Forces That Shape It" (Oxford University Press, 1999), written with William Bobenhausen.
Jane Jacobs, a central figure in the movement that repudiated the clean-slate planning strategies of the 1950's and 60's, said yesterday of Mr. Fitch, "He was the principal character in making the preservation of historic buildings practical and feasible and popular."
"He opened people's eyes," Ms. Jacobs said by telephone from Toronto, where she now lives. "He didn't just relegate the need for preservation of the built environment to early examples, sacred styles and so forth. He was one of the first to see the value of Art Deco." But his enthusiasms were wide-ranging; he was also a founding member of the Victorian Society in America and was instrumental in saving the South Street Seaport in lower Manhattan.
"He made people understand that whole districts -- even with undistinguished buildings in them -- were worthy of preservation and appreciation," Ms. Jacobs said.
Now taken for granted, such concepts were almost unheard of in 1964, when Mr. Fitch and the architect Charles Peterson founded a graduate program in restoration and preservation at Columbia University. Mr. Fitch headed the program until 1977, seeking as diverse a student body as he could find in the belief that preservation touched many lives and could profit from many different kinds of expertise and passion.
"The great forces in American preservation have always been the lay people," he said in a 1998 interview. "Professional designers have, time and time again, retreated from the scene of battle. Preservationists are the people who fought tooth and nail."
Among his former students are Frank Sanchis, the executive director of the Municipal Art Society; John H. Stubbs, the vice president of the World Monuments Fund; and Adele Chatfield-Taylor, the president of the American Academy in Rome.
As a man who led architectural tours with the cry "Andiamo!" ("Let's go!") -- in the cadences of Tennessee -- Mr. Fitch was scarcely the kind to retire at 68, when he stepped down from Columbia's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation.
His next career was as the director of historic preservation at the Manhattan architectural firm Beyer Blinder Belle.
In the firm's recently completed renovation of Grand Central Terminal, Mr. Fitch advocated construction of a new staircase on the east end of the concourse to complement the existing staircase on the west.
A preservation purist might have disputed such an intervention. But Mr. Fitch said: "I tell you the logic of the plan suggested that there could have been a balancing stair there. That's the essence of the Beaux-Arts planning philosophy. We didn't violate the intentions of the builder."
That is not to say he was a pushover for alterations. When his own firm came up with a plan for Donald J. Trump to reclad the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South and the Avenue of the Americas, Mr. Fitch was opposed.
When the firm was restoring the Cathedral of the Madeleine in Salt Lake City, Mr. Fitch "got into incredible dialogues, telling the bishop how Catholic services should work," recalled Richard L. Blinder, a partner in Beyer Blinder Belle.
Mr. Fitch was born in Washington on May 8, 1909, and grew up in Chattanooga. He attended the University of Alabama and the school of architecture at Tulane University. The Depression prevented him from finishing school but he was granted five honorary doctorates later in life.
As an Air Force meteorologist in the second world war, he traced the effects of climate on people, information he later used to study how buildings relate to their environment.
"He was an environmentalist when we were doing glass buildings that had no relation to their environment," Mr. Blinder said.
Before and after the war, Mr. Fitch was an editor at Architectural Record, Architectural Forum and House Beautiful in New York; he was appointed an associate professor at Columbia in 1954.
Mr. Fitch's other books include "Walter Gropius" (1960), "Architecture and the Esthetics of Plenty" (1961) and "Historic Preservation: Curatorial Management of the Built World" (1982).
His first wife, Cleo Rickman Fitch, an archaeological researcher, died in 1995. He is survived by his second wife, Martica Sawin, a critic and art historian, and three stepdaughters, Martica Douglas of Portland, Me.; Maggy Wolf, of New Orleans; and Gina Sawin, of New Gloucester, Me.
Between spells together on the preservation battlefield in the 1960's, fighting the Lower Manhattan Expressway, which would have run along Broome Street, Ms. Jacobs recalled many evenings of conversation in their West Village homes.
"He was a great educator," she said, "even when he wasn't in the classroom."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Marston Fitch (Barbara Alper, 1998)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); INTERVIEWS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: FITCH, JAMES MARSTON; DUNLAP, DAVID W JAMES MARSTON FITCH (96%); JANE JACOBS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



303 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Chase WillPay $7.7 Billion In Cash and Stock for Fleming

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 11

 BODY:
Chase Manhattan formally agreed today to acquire Robert Fleming Holdings for $7.7 billion, part of an effort by Chase to strengthen its presence in Europe and Asia.
The deal, which had been widely expected, means the end of independence for Fleming, one of the last privately held investment banks based in Britain. 
 It also illustrates the intensifying pressure on midsize firms like Fleming to merge with larger institutions on favorable terms or risk being swallowed up or driven out of an increasingly global business.
Chase said its motive in acquiring Fleming had little to do with saving money by trimming overlapping businesses. Rather, the American bank said, the purchase would help vault it into a position that would allow it to compete more effectively around the world.
The agreement will give Chase, the third-largest bank in the United States, a quick presence in Asia, where Fleming's asset management business has been flourishing, and in Europe. The addition of Fleming also gives Chase new revenue streams from asset management.
The acquisition is expected to be completed by July or August.
"This isn't about expense synergies," said William B. Harrison Jr., Chase Manhattan's chief executive. "If you like the growth prospects for Asia and Europe, then you will like this transaction."
Not all investors and analysts viewed the deal so favorably, with some saying Chase might have overpaid for Fleming. Under the terms of the agreement, Chase will pay about $4.1 billion in cash and $3.6 billion in its stock. In New York today, Chase Manhattan shares fell $2.125, to $86.
"It clearly took a bit for Chase to leverage it away from the family," said Julian Bird, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Securities here.
Chase acknowledged that the acquisition would dilute earnings the first year, but maintained that the dilution was not significant.
Fleming, which is not a publicly traded company, is 29.4 percent-owned by the Fleming family -- which included Ian Fleming, the writer who created the character James Bond.
It was founded 127 years ago by Robert Fleming, a onetime bookkeeper who saw a future in investing in the cattle ranches and railroads of America, then the world's most promising emerging economy. Fleming formed the Scottish-American Investment Trust, which expanded into one of Britain's biggest asset managers by the time of his death in 1933 at age 88.
It has since grown to operate in 40 countries with a staff of 7,500, managing $140 billion in clients' funds. The company also owns Jardine Matheson Holdings, one of Asia's leading investment management and banking groups.
Some analysts said that the new company, which will be called Chase Flemings, would still operate in a second-tier league to larger and more powerful investment banks like Merrill Lynch and the Goldman Sachs Group.
Yet for Fleming, a loss of independence may have been inevitable if it is to ultimately survive in the face of aggressive global expansions by American firms.
"It's the same dilemma that Schroders faced," said John Tyce, a banking analyst at SG Securities here, referring to the acquisition by Citigroup of that British investment bank in January. "In case no one has noticed, the Yanks are here and they are making people squeal."
The only remaining independent British investment bank is now Cazenove & Company, which, interestingly, advised Fleming during the negotiations with Chase Manhattan. Chase's own mergers-and-acquisitions unit acted as its adviser.
As part of the deal, Fleming sold its half-stake in a joint venture with T. Rowe Price Associates for $780 million to Price, the Baltimore-based mutual fund company and money manager. Rowe Price Fleming manages about $43 billion.
Under the arrangement, Fleming's current chief executive, William Garrett, will continue to run the business. Chase said no layoffs are expected.
The acquisition of Fleming reflects Chase's strategy of building its business by making several smaller acquisitions rather than merging with one of the bigger banks. Last year, Chase bought Hambrecht & Quist for $1.35 billion, strengthening itself in technology-related investment banking.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Garrett, right, Robert Fleming's chief executive, will continue to run the investment bank under Chase Manhattan ownership. He met in London yesterday with William B. Harrison Jr., the chief of Chase. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); JAR (LSE) (51%); J36 (SGX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: FLEMING, ROBERT, HOLDINGS LTD; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (58%); ROBERT FLEMING HOLDINGS LTD (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); JARDINE MATHESON HOLDINGS LTD (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLEMING, ROBERT, HOLDINGS LTD; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (50%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; GARRETT, WILLIAM CHASE FLEMINGS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



304 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Unions Prepare to Hit the Street in Washington

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN with STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
American labor unions, worried that the world economy is destroying many good jobs, are descending on Washington to mount street demonstrations against a China trade bill and to lend support to students, environmentalists and religious groups protesting globalization.
The aggressive effort comes as labor's leadership has hardened its opposition to liberalized trade, and its ties with the Clinton administration have frayed. President Clinton's trade policies have done serious damage to American workers, they argue, adding that all new trade initiatives should be rejected unless they seek to improve working conditions around the world. 
 Capitalizing on last year's anti-trade demonstrations in Seattle, union leaders have also forged alliances with some environmental and student groups gathered this week in Washington to protest against actions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The "blue-green" alliance is unusual for labor, which until five years ago largely avoided ties with such groups.
The labor campaign kicks off on Wednesday with a rally on Capitol Hill and will continue in Washington and key Congressional districts during the next 10 days.
Labor pressure has also caused problems for Vice President Al Gore, the likely Democratic nominee for president. Mr. Gore, who has long supported free trade initiatives, has tiptoed around the China trade measure because of unexpectedly strong labor opposition. Mr. Gore won an early endorsement for his presidential candidacy from unions this year, and has told union leaders that he would take a different approach to trade than Mr. Clinton.
The Clinton administration is asking Congress to extend permanent trade ties to China, a step that would allow United States companies to benefit fully from market-opening measures China agreed to take as the price of admission to the World Trade Organization. Unlike some other trade deals that labor unions have opposed, this one does not require the United States to open its market wider to foreign-made products.
Many analysts say that the China measure could help close American's gaping trade deficit with that nation by allowing companies to export more goods there, a situation that would presumably be good for American workers. Separately, union officials are opposing another Clinton administration trade initiative that would grant lower tariffs to many of the poorest African countries, a measure that has support from many Democrats.
Union officials insist that they have not become knee-jerk protectionists, a reputation they worked hard to shed in recent years. But they do say that they are now opposed to trade accords unless they raise labor standards in foreign nations. That stance leaves them in opposition to almost all trade liberalization measures around the world these days.
Some union officials now even argue that increased export opportunities are ultimately bad for American workers because multinational companies exploit every market opening to shift union jobs to less heavily regulated nations.
Unions are taking out advertisements this week citing a study by the Economic Policy Institute, a union-oriented policy group, that predicts hundreds of thousands of job losses even if China joins the World Trade Organization and American companies get new export and investment benefits. Clinton administration officials call those predictions baseless.
"Globalization works only for multinationals, not for workers," said George Becker, president of the United Steelworkers of America and one of the most active labor leaders in rallying workers against China trade. "The main reason companies are interested in the China market is the repressed labor and low environmental standards there."
Mr. Becker said that many unions, especially since the Seattle demonstrations, have found common cause with some nongovernment organizations and college students who want to rewrite he rules of globalization to protect the environment, upgrade labor standards and alleviate poverty abroad.
"We are not traditional allies," Mr. Becker said. "But when I saw those kids in Seattle who knew that something was wrong in the world, I knew we should stand together in the trenches."
Mr. Becker, whose union is based in Pittsburgh, said he is staying in Washington through Sunday so that he can speak at an rally against the World Bank and I.M.F. that day. John J. Sweeney, president of A.F.L.-C.I.O. umbrella union, spoke at a rally in favor of forgiving third world debt last Sunday and announced an alliance with the Sierra Club, an environmental group, on Monday.
The United Auto Workers, the International Association of Machinists, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have are also busing in members for the rally and lobbying effort against China trade, which may draw 20,000 protesters. Many say some of their members will stay on through the weekend to join the protest against the financial institutions.
Labor's broad campaign against 1990's-style globalization is deeply worrying for Democrats. Labor is perhaps the party's single most active political constituency. Its heavy lobbying effort against the China trade measure has split the party and hindered its efforts to present a moderate, united front in this year's presidential elections. Especially in seeking money and votes from high-tech workers, Democrats are eager to present an internationalist image, not a protectionist one.
"It puts Democrats in a tough position because they have to break ranks with a key constituency or risk hurting our leadership on an important issue," said Representative Calvin M. Dooley, a California Democrat who is among a minority of his party's caucus in the expected to vote in favor of permanent trade ties for China. "I think labor has demagogued so much on the trade issue that even when we get one that's clearly in the U.S. interest, they can't get comfortable with it."
Thea Lee, an international economist with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said labor's opposition to the China Trade bill is principled, asserting that trade should not be normalized with China because it is known for violating human rights, workers' rights and many past trade agreements that have been signed.
How much political power labor can bring to bear is debatable. But in an era of low voter turnout, many Democrats are persuaded that labor proven get-out-the-vote efforts can make the difference between victory and defeat.
Largely because of labor pressure, no top Democratic leader in the House has publicly supported the China trade bill. Some in the party fear that stance will cost them business donations and possibly hurt their chances of winning back the House this year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers stood guard at the World Bank building in Washington yesterday.Ten days of protests are expected to begin on Sunday, at the start of meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); AFRICA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ORGANIZED LABOR; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION LABOR UNIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); RELIGION (72%); RIOTS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EXPORT PRICES (68%); EXPORT CONTROLS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



305 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Briefing

 BODY:

THE DEMOCRATS
 
GORE AT FUND-RAISER -- Vice President Al Gore kicked off another week of multimillion-dollar fund-raising for the Democratic National Committee with a dinner last night at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington. Andrew Tobias, the financial writer and gay activist who is treasurer of the committee, was the host of the dinner, where 50 people paid $20,000 each, raising $1 million for the party. Katharine Q. Seelye (NYT) 

THE POLLS
 
THREE SURVEYS FAVOR BUSH -- Three recent nationwide surveys show George W. Bush leading Al Gore. In a poll conducted by the Gallup Organization for CNN and USA Today, Mr. Bush was preferred by 50 percent, Mr. Gore by 41 percent; 8 percent of the 502 likely voters surveyed April 7-9 were undecided. Marist College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., surveyed 817 registered voters in a nationwide poll April 3-5. Mr. Bush was the choice of 45 percent, and Mr. Gore 40 percent; 15 percent were undecided. The Zogby America Poll, conducted April 1-4 with 842 likely voters, found 46 percent backing Mr. Bush, 42 percent Mr. Gore and 12 percent undecided. The advantage Mr. Bush has in each poll is within its margin of sampling error: for the Zogby and Marist polls plus or minus three percentage points and for the Gallup Poll plus or minus five percentage points. Marjorie Connelly (NYT)
 
THE SENATE
 
MINNESOTAN FIGHTS LAWYERS GROUP -- Senator Rod Grams of Minnesota, a Republican facing a tough re-election battle from a crowded field of opponents, has also had to contend with tough television advertising in the Twin Cities. Issue ads sponsored in part by the Association of Trial Lawyers of America attack Mr. Grams for supporting legislation that would make it harder for victims of asbestos-related illnesses to sue asbestos companies. This week, Mr. Grams held news conferences in Minnesota and Washington to accuse the trial lawyers of attempted blackmail and bribery, saying a lobbyist for the group left a taped telephone message for the senator's campaign aide suggesting that the advertisements would not run if Mr. Grams dropped his sponsorship of the bill. Kurt Zellers, Mr. Grams's campaign press secretary, said the tape had been turned over to the Justice Department for possible investigation. The president of the trial lawyers' group, Richard Middleton, dismissed Mr. Grams's accusation as "not only absurd, but libelous on its face." Todd S. Purdum (NYT) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); MARIST COLLEGE (83%); MARIST COLLEGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); MARIST COLLEGE (83%); MARIST COLLEGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); FUNDRAISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LAWYERS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); SPONSORSHIP (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); BRIBERY (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); LIBEL & SLANDER (62%); ASBESTOS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (62%); EXTORTION (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); TOBIAS, ANDREW AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



306 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Governors Criticize Internet Tax Panel

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
More than two-thirds of the nation's 50 governors today will deliver to Congress a scathing bipartisan attack on the Internet tax commission, denouncing it as a forum for special interests seeking tax breaks while threatening the system in which states set their own tax policies to pay for police, firefighters and schools.
The letters come as the Republican leadership in Congress conducts a series of events to toast the report by an advisory commission that would effectively continue the exemption from sales taxes on products sold by companies that operate only in cyberspace. National retailers with bricks-and-mortar stores would have to continue collecting sales taxes on all sales, including those over the Internet. 
 By last night, 36 governors, most of whom have reputations as tax cutters, had signed a letter saying that Congress should not interfere with the right of each state to determine its tax policy.
The most important reason to oppose the Internet tax commission's report "is that it would substantially interfere with state sovereignty," the governors wrote.
"The U.S. Constitution was very clear in both ensuring state sovereignty and creating a critical balance between federal and state authority. For well over 200 years the federal government has respected state sovereignty and has been extremely careful not to interfere with the states' ability to independently raise revenues. This proposal would dramatically undercut this precedent," the governors wrote.
The letter also says that the Internet tax commission ignored its mandate, instead pursuing special interest tax breaks sought by companies with seats on the commission.
"Instead of addressing the requirements laid out in the law to recommend a new state and local sales tax system to provide for fairness and balance," the governors wrote, "the proposal chose to use this opportunity to seek a host of new and expensive special tax breaks. We urge you to reject the report."
The letter was signed by 19 Republicans, 15 Democrats and two independents, Jesse Ventura of Minnesota and Angus King of Maine.
Four other governors sent separate letters supporting state sovereignty in taxation as a Constitutional principle, but not attacking the Internet tax commission.
Among the governors who did not sign the letter were George W. Bush of Texas, Jeb Bush of Florida, George E. Pataki of New York and James S. Gilmore 3rd of Virginia, all Republicans, and Gray Davis of California, a Democrat. Governor Gilmore headed the Internet tax commission.
The support for a tax-free Internet has caused deep divisions between Capitol Hill Republicans and Republicans who run statehouses and city halls, where sales taxes are the largest single source of revenue.
The Capitol Hill Republicans are also under attack from retailers ranging from organizations of mom-and-pop merchants to Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer. Only a handful of large retailers favor the proposal to keep the Internet exempt from sales taxes.
Republicans on Capitol Hill, who say any tax cut is a good tax cut, see the Internet as critical to future prosperity and want to be seen as its protector from taxes.
But in a sign that solid support among Congressional Republicans for a tax-free Internet is weakening in Washington, Senator John McCain yesterday quietly canceled plans for the Senate Commerce Committee to vote tomorrow on a bill to extend the Internet Tax Freedom Act for three years to 2006. The withdrawal was revealed when the issue did not appear on the committee agenda.
Mark Buse, the committee staff director, said the planned vote was delayed indefinitely "at the request of senators who wanted more time to look at the issue and find out if they are in favor of a moratorium or favor new taxes on their constituents."
Mr. Buse said Senator McCain favors "stepping back and taking a larger view" of Internet taxation and wants to avoid "a rush to judgment on how to impose taxes" on goods and services.
The commission, Mr. Buse said, "was too highly political and did not provide any glide plan to answer these complex questions."
Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the National Governors Association, said he was delighted that Senator McCain has delayed action. "This means we are getting through" with the message that "who has the right to cut taxes in the states. Is it the federal government or is it the states?"
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, a tax-cutting Republican who organized other governors to sign the letter, said he, too, opposes taxes aimed at the Internet, but that protecting the Internet as a tax-exempt zone will distort the economy and shift power to Washington.
"I do not believe the Internet should be taxed. No bit taxes, no bandwidth taxes, no access taxes. We should not do anything that will inhibit this powerful engine of economic growth. But that is not the issue here. The issue is whether the states will determine their own tax policy and whether business will have a level playing field. This is about whether local government will be allowed to function independently of the national government."
Governor Leavitt said he persuaded so many governors to sign the letter because they "see this as the most significant federalism issue we have faced in this century." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1043 INTERNET REGULATORY FREEDOM ACT OF 1999 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TAXATION; GOVERNORS (US); SALES TAX; STATES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); INTERNET SALES TAX (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JIM GILMORE (58%); ANGUS KING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



307 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Aetna Settles Texas Suit, Altering H.M.O. Practices
Aetna, the nation's biggest managed-care insurer, settled a lawsuit in Texas by agreeing to change several practices that doctors and consumer advocates had portrayed as undermining patient care, like rewarding physicians who stayed within cost limits.
Aetna said it was ready to make similar changes in other states, but officials in New York and Connecticut said that, on first look, the Texas concessions were not far-reaching enough to satisfy their concerns. Page C2.
 
Governors Criticize Web Tax Panel
More than two-thirds of the nation's governors will deliver to Congress today a scathing bipartisan attack on the Internet tax commission, denouncing it as a forum for special interests seeking tax breaks while threatening the system in which states set their tax policies to finance government services. C6. 

Rite Aid Plans to Refinance Its Debt
Rite Aid, having failed to find buyers for its PCS Health Systems subsidiary, announced a plan to refinance its debt for more than two years, giving it access to more than $640 million in additional funds. The deal came at a cost of higher interest rates on some of its borrowings and substantial dilution for its stockholders. Shares of Rite Aid rose $1.625, to $7.3125. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C10.
 
Motorola Issues a Profit Warning
Shares of Motorola plummeted nearly 18 percent after the company said second-quarter and full-year earnings would come in below analysts' expectations. C11.
 
Nasdaq Slides an Additional 3.2%
Technology stocks were punished again, with the Nasdaq composite index falling 132.30 points, or 3.2 percent, to 4,055.90. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 100.52 points, or 0.9 percent, to 11,287.08, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.87 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,500.59. C11.
 
Treasury prices dropped sharply as the yield on the benchmark 30-year issue rose to 5.76 percent from 5.66 percent. C11.
 
Fund Manager, Once Hot, Resigns
Frank P. Slattery V, who had a phenomenal first year as a manager of the PBHG New Opportunities Fund but then stumbled over the last month amid market turbulence, resigned to pursue other opportunities. C2.
 
Chase in Deal for Robert Fleming
Chase Manhattan formally agreed to acquire Robert Fleming Holdings for $7.7 billion, part of an effort by Chase to strengthen its presence in Europe and Asia. C4.
 
A Lucky Man Who Manages a Casino
Luck has favored him, says Neil M. Cornelius Jr., general manager of the Treasure Island Resort and Casino in Red Wing, Minn. It started with an Upward Bound invitation when he was 14, one of nine children in a Native American family. After college, his sister got him an interview at I.B.M. that led to a job and management. Twenty years later, after I.B.M. gave him a "silver parachute," he earned a master's degree and returned to "work with my people." Now, in the gambling field, his luck has not run out. In recent years, he sky-dived in an Elvis costume. The Boss. C8.
 
Omnicom to Invest in Dot-Com Shop
In another step to expand an already extensive interactive empire, Omnicom Group is investing in Eisnor Interactive, an innovative agency that specializes in creating offline campaigns for online marketers. A rival of Omnicom, Interpublic Group, said that it would strengthen ties with a leading interactive services agency, Icon Medialab International in Stockholm. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C7.
 
Saudi Arabia to Ease Restrictions
Eager to demonstrate a new economic openness that could help its bid to join the World Trade Organization, Saudi Arabia announced a new law that would permit foreigners to own their investments and property in the country without a Saudi partner. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,287.08 up 100.52
Nasdaq composite -- 4,055.90 132.30
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.76% up 0.10
The euro -- $0.9597 down 0.0019
The dollar -- 107.09 yen up 0.62
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Rite Aid shares since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (91%); RAD (NYSE) (83%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (83%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (83%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (83%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (83%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (91%); RITE AID CORP (83%); PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); ROBERT FLEMING HOLDINGS LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNET SALES TAX (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); FAMILY (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); PROFIT WARNINGS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); RESORTS (62%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



308 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Maine Will Cap Drug Prices With a Groundbreaking Law

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
In a slap to the pharmaceutical industry and a rebuke to Congress, the Maine Legislature on Tuesday became the first in the country to approve a bill that would clamp sweeping price controls on medications sold in the state.
The Act to Establish Fairer Prescription Drug Prices would immediately establish a pricing board to set suggested lower prices. If the prices did not fall, then as of Oct. 1, 2001, the board would mandate that all drugs sold in the state cost no more than they would in Canada. 
 The bill must still go to the governor, Angus King, an independent who has remained neutral on it, but it passed today by veto-proof margins in both chambers, 23 to 9 in the Senate and 102 to 47 in the House. It is expected to face legal challenges, in particular on the grounds that it hinders interstate commerce, but the state attorney general has testified that he believes the bill can withstand them, in part because the commerce clause in the United States Constitution allows an exception for states protecting the basic health and safety of their citizens.
"This makes Maine the first state to say, 'Americans shouldn't be subsidizing low prices for prescription drugs around the world,' " Senator Chellie Pingree, the Senate's Democratic majority leader and the bill's primary sponsor, said. "The pharmaceutical industry worked extra hard against this bill, but they had no argument and this is a huge national issue."
The rising cost of medications is particularly an issue in border states like Maine. There, residents can cross into Canada, which has national health insurance, and reap the benefits of the discount the Canadian government negotiates with drug companies.
The Vermont State Senate recently passed a similar bill with "fair pricing of prescription drugs" in its title, though it has yet to be voted on in the State House of Representatives. The New England states have also formed a coalition to try to present a united front on drug prices, whether through local price controls or the pooling of their residents to demand mass discounts. The legislative leaders in the coalition argue that virtually every other country negotiates a low price for their drugs with the industry, so Americans end up footing the bill for all the research that benefits everyone.
"Our goal," said Peter Shumlin, president pro tem of the Vermont Senate, "is to have a number of states move forward simultaneously to send a message to the pharmaceutical industry that people in New England are sick and tired of paying a 60 to 80 percent premium for drugs made in America, and -- I think we share this view with our friends in Maine -- as long as the pharmaceutical industry remains the top donor to members in both parties in Congress, not much will happen there."
To backers of the pharmaceutical industry, that goal is deeply misguided, as is the Maine bill.
"It sounds like they're claiming this is a win for the Legislature, but I think it's a detrimental blow to patients in Maine who need access to medicine," said Gabrielle Williams, a spokeswoman for Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the trade association, based in Washington. "It could have significant impacts on access to certain medications in Maine."
Delays in setting prices could bring delays in access to new drugs, she said. Also, price controls remove the financial incentive for creating new drugs, she added.
Some fear that manufacturers would refuse to sell drugs in Maine. But the bill's backers say that would be a public relations disaster for the companies.
There has been plenty of local opposition to the bill in Maine as well. On Monday, a group of doctors, biotechnology backers and senior citizens' groups held a news conference, saying they worried that price controls might restrict access to drugs.
Others sounded like Clyde E. Dyar, the economic and community development director for the town of Fairfield, Me., who worried that the bill would chill investment in the state's small biotechnology industry.
"If we put price controls on in Maine, and we don't do it nationally, then it puts an onus on companies not to do business in Maine," he said.
On the floor of both chambers today, Senator Pingree said, debate of the bill was lengthy largely because so many lawmakers wanted to share what they and their constituents had experienced buying medicine. Ultimately, support for the bill crossed party lines.
The Maine bill sets aside $200,000 for its legal defense. It lays out the composition of an 11-member pricing board, which would include a senior citizen and a disabled person. It also lays out several interim measures meant to reduce prices, such as increased prescription drug benefits for low-income seniors, potential purchasing alliances with other states and incentive payments to health care providers to encourage them to prescribe cheaper products.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (97%); VERMONT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (53%); VERMONT SENATE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: VERMONT SENATE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE; VERMONT; CANADA; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); MAINE, USA (97%); VERMONT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); DRUG PRICES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (53%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY CHELLIE PINGREE (58%); ANGUS KING (58%); PETER SHUMLIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



309 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Speech on Insurance

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech that Gov. George W. Bush delivered yesterday at the West Side Ecumenical Ministry in Cleveland, as reported on his Web site:
At the edges of affluent communities, there are those living in prosperity's shadow. The same economy that is a miracle for millions of Americans is a mystery for millions as well. Americans who live in a world above welfare's assistance, but beneath prosperity's promise. 
 From the beginning of this campaign, I have said that prosperity must have a purpose. That our nation must close the gap of hope. Today, I want to expand on that agenda. Our newspapers and television programs praise and profile the winners in our high-tech economy. But we must never become a winner-take-all society. Our economy must also honor and reward the hard work of factory and field, of waiting tables and driving cabs -- not just enterprise, but sheer effort, not just technology, but toil.
As president, I will be committed to the advancement of all Americans, including those who struggle. Who are these Americans? There are at least three groups. Many are just beginning a life of work, liberated from dependence on welfare. Four years ago, we replaced a system of cash benefits with work requirements and time limits. Across America, we have seen a 40 percent decline in welfare cases -- 54 percent in my state of Texas. And most who have left welfare are now working. But those who have left welfare's grasp can still feel welfare's pull. Progress can come slow, and not without courage. The courage of long hours and small tips and big responsibilities -- the hard journey to self-sufficiency. . . .
Still others on the fringes of our prosperity are new Americans, who have come to this country with the same dreams as our ancestors. I am the governor of a state with many immigrants. I see the challenges: language barriers, lack of education and housing. All the problems of a young work force. Yet I also see the vitality, energy and determination of men and women for whom America is not just a country, but a promise. I see a powerful ethic of work and faith and family. At one time, we called this the Puritan work ethic. Or the Protestant ethic. Now, we are finding it is the Asian ethic. The Hispanic ethic. The African ethic. It is, in fact, the American ethic. And if we welcome these new Americans into our economy and into our hearts, we will be enriched by their gifts.
And finally there are many struggling Americans who have never been on welfare and never seen an immigration line. On the outskirts of both poverty and prosperity, they live paycheck to paycheck. With little savings. No health insurance. They are found in rural areas, small towns and big cities. Their finances are fragile. A job is lost, a husband leaves, and they are weeks from poverty.
In all these cases, it should be our goal to help those who are getting by to get ahead. We want them to build, for themselves. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ETHICS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); IMMIGRATION (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



310 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Europe, America, Glass Houses

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "More Vehemently Than Ever, Europe Is Scorning the U.S." (front page, April 9):
You describe views of the United States found in the French political class. As a whole, the French political, cultural and intellectual class probably represents the most anti-American segment of French society, because its livelihood and power are threatened by United States-led globalization and liberalization. These people used to be the most powerful people in France, and they are becoming increasingly irrelevant as the general population adopts a global view rather than a strictly local one. 
 France is at a crossroads. The old France of state intervention and subsidies, defended by the (left-leaning to leftist) "political, cultural and intellectual elite" you cite, is fighting the new France of American-style liberal economics and competitiveness, embodied by corporate leaders and innovative young people.
 
JULIAN ALLEN
Paris, April 9, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, JULIAN

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



311 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Computer Ills Meant U.S. Couldn't Read Its Spy Photographs

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
The United States government's ability to keep track of looming international threats was drastically curtailed last year because of a prolonged computer breakdown at the Pentagon agency that collects and analyzes photographs from spy satellites, several federal intelligence officials said.
The computer malfunction was so bad in August that United States intelligence agencies were left nearly blind for a few days, unable to rely on photographs from any spy satellites for use in a wide range of intelligence operations, officials added. 
 "This was a catastrophic systems failure," one senior official said. "We were really lucky that there weren't any major crises going on at the time."
The computer crisis, at the National Imagery and Mapping Agency, began in early August and continued for about a month, and was far more serious than the brief, previously disclosed Year 2000-related problems in intelligence systems that occurred over the New Year's holiday, officials said. It came as the mapping agency was installing a new system, which caused the breakdown. Some critics have said the new system may have been inadequately tested.
After months of work, the problem has largely been solved, although some officials said the system still did not work as it should.
The malfunction was seen as a serious problem within the government because spy satellites are among the most important national security tools available to the United States. They provide the president and his advisers prized information through high-resolution images on every national security issue, including Chinese naval deployment and Iraq's rebuilding of its chemical weapons plants.
For several weeks, the nation's fleet of spy satellites continued to take pictures, but the computer malfunction prevented the mapping agency from quickly distributing photographs from them over a classified network to Clinton administration policy makers, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Pentagon, officials said.
With its sophisticated hardware malfunctioning, the government had to rely on low-tech solutions. Analysts at the mapping agency would look at the photographs on computer screens and describe them over the telephone to officials who needed the information. In other cases, the agency made printouts from its computer terminals and then had couriers deliver the photographs to policy makers at the White House and other government agencies.
But the computer databases that contained archives of older photographs at the mapping agency were also malfunctioning, robbing analysts of the ability to compare the few new images they were receiving with earlier pictures of the same buildings and installations. That made it extremely difficult for intelligence officials to develop strong analytical judgments about critical foreign policy issues facing the president.
The system was so badly limited that only imagery dealing with topics that posed short-term threats to the national security of the United States -- the North Korean nuclear weapons program, for example -- was processed quickly.
"If we had had multiple hot spots flare up all at once, I don't think we could have handled it," said one senior intelligence official. "We were not quite blind, but we were way short for at least a few days."
Analysts working on longer-term issues -- narcotics production and trafficking, for example -- were forced to endure much longer delays in their requests to obtain satellite photographs, officials said.
"There was a major dip in the volume of imagery," said one official. "If you were an analyst monitoring the development of narcotics crops, or you were watching a new military facility being constructed somewhere, you faced significant delays."
Senior government officials acknowledged that the prolonged breakdown represented a major technological challenge for the United States intelligence community.
The breakdown has intensified an internal debate over whether the government is prepared to handle a new generation of spy satellites to be deployed over the next decade, the single most expensive intelligence program in United States history.
Critics say the intelligence community is spending billions of dollars for the new fleet of high-tech spy satellites while largely ignoring how to process, analyze and distribute the flood of photos those satellites will send to Earth. Matching the new generation of satellites with the system of collecting and processing their photos "will be like lashing together a Mercedes and a Trabant," said one official, comparing the German luxury car to the economy compact produced by the former East Germany.
The price of the satellite program, dubbed the Future Imagery Architecture, quickly grew by 50 percent, prompting Congress to demand a cap on spending increases. Although the exact price of the program is classified, the cost overruns have raised concerns about whether there will be enough money to improve the systems on the ground to handle the data from the new satellites.
"The problem is that the Future Imagery Architecture program is being built without much consideration for the need to invest in infrastructure to support it," one official said.
Task forces made up of senior C.I.A. and mapping agency officials worked on the problem from August through December, first to rig ways to get imagery to policy makers and then to fix the computer malfunction itself. But problems at the mapping agency continued to flare for months, officials said.
"I don't think it is still really fixed," said one senior official.
Laura Snow, acting chief of public affairs for the National Imagery and Mapping Agency, said agency officials would not comment on the malfunction. "We can't go into details of the system because of security issues," Ms. Snow said.
The computer problems developed just as the agency was overhauling its main computer system and installing a new one, called the National Exploitation System, in time to deal with Year 2000 problems, officials said. But as soon as it was installed in early August, analysts found it impossible to transfer images to administration policy makers and other intelligence analysts.
"This was a massive information technology overhaul, and the lesson is that we in the intelligence community have to learn how to do that better," said one official.
"There is a question about whether N.I.M.A. has expertise to manage the technical challenge they are going to face in systems integration and acquisition and support of the new satellites," another official said.
The National Imagery and Mapping Agency has been at the center of debate since it was created in 1996, when spy satellite photo collection and analysis was transferred from the C.I.A. to the Pentagon at the urging of the former director of central intelligence, John M. Deutch. Critics in the intelligence community warned that the move was a mistake. They argued that with the Pentagon in control, the satellites would be used largely for tactical military issues, like determining how many tanks are in a certain region of Serbia, rather than intelligence issues with broad political implications.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL IMAGERY AND MAPPING AGENCY; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL IMAGERY AND MAPPING AGENCY; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ESPIONAGE; SATELLITES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PHOTOGRAPHY ESPIONAGE (92%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (53%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES ANN LIVERMORE (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



312 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: U.S. PLANS TO PAY RADIATION CLAIMS

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
The White House will announce a plan on Wednesday for compensating workers who may have been made sick by exposure to radiation and toxic chemicals in the nation's nuclear weapons factories, administration officials said tonight.
The plan, which has been under development for about a year and must still be submitted to Congress, follows the acknowledgment by the Energy Department earlier this year that workers involved in building the nation's nuclear arsenal showed higher-than-normal rates of several different kinds of cancer and other ailments, based on a review of years of scientific studies. 
 The concession opened the door for compensation. The plan could cost $400 million over the first five years, administration officials said.
An important part of the plan is "giving workers the benefit of the doubt," an Energy Department official said.
Through the cold war and beyond, the Energy Department and its predecessor agency, the Atomic Energy Commission, denied that workers had received harmful doses of radiation.
And few if any of the workers qualified for workers' compensation, the standard remedy, because that program was designed for sudden injuries that clearly happened on the job, not ailments developed by chronic exposure.
The Energy Department and its contractors routinely opposed such payments for compensation based on supposed radiation exposure.
Nearly all the affected workers were or are employees of private companies that operated government factories. Some are employees of subcontractors who worked in private factories.
New details of the plan for compensation were first reported in The Washington Post on Wednesday.
People familiar with the plan also said that it acknowledged that most workers could not document their exposures, because record-keeping was poor, and that even if they could, some were suffering from diseases that were far from unique to people who work with radiation, although they may occur more frequently among that group.
The plan gives the workers the benefit of the doubt in asserting that certain illnesses are occupationally related.
"The government is done fighting the workers and now we're going to help them," Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said in a statement. "We're reversing the decades-old practice of opposing worker claims."
In advance of Congressional approval, however, the only action that the Clinton administration can take is to acknowledge responsibility, Energy Department officials said.
The plan's prospects in Congress are uncertain, but some members of the House are pushing hard on behalf of workers in their districts, notably uranium enrichment plants, the Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Ohio and the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Kentucky.
The plan was drafted by the White House National Economic Council, with help from experts from a dozen Federal agencies. It would offer some workers lump-sum payments of $100,000 or allow them to negotiate reimbursement for medical costs and lost wages. It does not contemplate punitive damages.
If the plan is approved, the Energy Department will open a special compensation office to handle the claims.
The weapons complex has employed hundreds of thousands of workers since 1944, many of whom died of the same kinds of illnesses that afflict the rest of the population.
Some, however, suffer from diseases that are unusual outside the weapons complex, notably berylliosis, a condition that comes from exposure to beryllium dust. Beryllium is a metal for which the weapons complex was the only consumer for several decades. The plan also contemplates reimbursement for another lung ailment, silicosis, and for "radiogenic cancers."
Epidemiologic studies of workers around the complex have found that as a whole, they are healthier than the general population but that at 14 plants, there are 22 pockets of "excess cancers" or other unusual diseases.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (92%); WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT ENERGY DEPARTMENT (92%); WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; RADIATION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; LABOR ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); CANCER (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DAMAGES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL RICHARDSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



313 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Deal Gives Coney Island a Ballpark, and a Team That Some Didn't Want

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
Leaders of the City Council and the Giuliani administration agreed yesterday to build a new minor league stadium in Coney Island and return professional baseball to Brooklyn as part of a $91 million redevelopment plan for the area.
The deal removes the last obstacles to a $31 million, 6,500-seat stadium and kills a nearly decade-old plan to build an amateur athletic arena on Coney Island's Steeplechase Park, where the new ballpark is now planned. In return for the Council's support of the stadium plan, the city's Economic Development Corporation agreed yesterday to spend another $30 million to improve the boardwalk and build playgrounds, bathhouses, retail shops and volleyball courts. 
 The administration and the City Council also agreed to create a local development corporation to plan sports, recreation and entertainment programs in Coney Island and surrounding neighborhoods. Council officials said that the group would be given the $30 million that the city had earmarked for the amateur arena, commonly called Sportsplex.
Although the plan will mean the return of a professional team to Brooklyn for the first time since the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles in 1958, Council members talked more yesterday about economic rejuvenation than shagging fly balls.
"We took a plan that was dying on the vine and we made it into a package that will result in the redevelopment of Coney Island and all of south Brooklyn," said Herbert Berman, the chairman of the Council's finance committee.
The deal swells the price tag of what was once advertised by administration officials as a $20 million ballpark, and comes after the Council approved a $71 million minor league ballpark for Staten Island. But Michael G. Carey, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the latest deal would do far more to reverse the economic decline of Coney Island, which has failed to bounce back even as once-faded gems like Times Square have rebounded.
"The overall effect here is to rejuvenate the neighborhood," Mr. Carey said. "We are bringing back an area that has been neglected."
But the Brooklyn borough president, Howard Golden, fought the plan for the minor league stadium, saying the borough deserved better than a low-level minor league team. Greg Brooks, his chief of staff, said the city should have made improvements like the new bathrooms and pavilions without foisting the team on Coney Island.
"The borough president wouldn't argue against funding for the boardwalk," Mr. Brooks said. "But such funds could have been appropriated without bringing a short-season minor league team to Coney Island, which will provide minimal economic benefit at a very high cost."
The city and the New York Mets organization, which owns a Class A minor league team that will play at Coney Island, hope to open the stadium at Steeplechase Park in June 2001. This year, the minor league team hopes to play at St. John's University's baseball field.
After Mr. Carey, Mr. Berman and other City Council leaders worked out the details of the agreement yesterday afternoon, the Council land use committee voted 16-0 to approve the plan for the stadium and improvements to Coney Island. Council leaders said they expected the full body to approve the deal today.
The effort to build the stadium has been contentious. The Mets had wanted to make a temporary home in the Parade Grounds, a park deluged with soccer and Little League players each weekend, but Mr. Golden filed suit and stopped the plan.
Mr. Golden and Brooklyn Community Board 13 had also opposed the Coney Island proposal during the city's land use review procedure, forcing yesterday's City Council vote. Community board members had argued that the stadium should not be built unless the city also committed to Sportsplex.
But yesterday, the community board dropped its demand for the arena in return for the city's promise of neighborhood improvements and a commitment from the Mets to provide jobs and scholarships to baseball clinics to neighborhood schoolchildren. Martin Levine, the chairman of Community Board 13, said that even with the approval of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, which was not forthcoming, it would have taken at least two years to begin Sportsplex, and that was too long to wait.
"We cannot in good conscience ask people in Coney Island to wait two years for economic development," Mr. Levine said.
Peter J. Kiernan, who had led the effort to build the Sportsplex as chairman of the Brooklyn Sports Foundation, said the city had bought the cooperation of local leaders with the boardwalk improvements and other projects. Despite what Mr. Kiernan said was a pressing need for a sports center for high school and college athletes, he expects few amateur athletic facilities to be built as a result of yesterday's deal.
"One thing that is painfully clear is that there is no constituency for amateur sports," he said. "People get excited by professional sports, but few get excited for amateur sports."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn shows location of the proposed site of the stadium: A $31 million stadium is part of a $91 million redevelopment plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CONEY ISLAND (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); APPROVALS (69%); RETAILERS (54%); 

PERSON: BARNES, JULIAN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) HOWARD GOLDEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



314 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Proposing a Health Plan to Aid the Needy

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, April 11

 BODY:
Fleshing out his frequent pledge to remove "obstacles on the road to the middle class," Gov. George W. Bush entered the national debate over health care policy today by proposing a tax credit of up to $2,000 a family to help low- and moderate-income working people buy health insurance.
The credit, worth $34.7 billion over five years, was the most costly of an array of proposed tax incentives and vouchers for health care and home ownership that Mr. Bush packaged today as "a new prosperity initiative" intended to help immigrants, former welfare recipients and other low-income Americans make poverty a "stage, not a fate." 
 The overall program, another step in Mr. Bush's effort to position himself as a "new kind of Republican," would cost $41.6 billion over five years. His aides said it would help as many as 18 million of the nation's 44 million uninsured buy health insurance.
Introducing the plan here in Cleveland at the West Side Ecumenical Ministry, a faith-based charity, the Texas governor, who has been steadily reaching out to independents and moderates, spoke of "those living in prosperity's shadow." He also quoted Lincoln's exhortation that "every poor man should have a chance."
"It is time for a new prosperity initiative that reflects the spirit of Lincoln's reforms," Mr. Bush said. "A plan to help remove obstacles on the road to the middle class. A plan to clear a path for all. Instead of helping people cope with their need, we will help them to move beyond it. With the same energy and activism that others have brought to expanding government, we must expand opportunity."
The speech, delivered in a battleground state, was Mr. Bush's first of the presidential campaign to address health care, an issue the Democrats consider one of their strongest in this election. The Democrats say Mr. Bush is particularly vulnerable on the issue because his state has the nation's second-highest number of uninsured and some of the highest rates of AIDS, tuberculosis and diabetes.
Today the campaign of the apparent Democratic nominee, Vice President Al Gore, attacked Mr. Bush over Texas' record, saying that with his new proposal he was trying to "divert attention from the deplorable state of health care and other issues in Texas."
Mr. Bush's aides defended his health care record, distributing a fact sheet that said Texas had slowed the growth in the number of uninsured to 3 percent in his five years in the governor's office.
But the campaign distanced him from remarks made by the state's health commissioner, Dr. William R. Archer 3rd. In an interview with The New York Times for an article published in Tuesday's issue, Mr. Archer said among other things that Texas' high teenage pregnancy rate had come about because the state's Hispanic population lacked the belief "that getting pregnant is a bad thing." Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said today that Mr. Archer's remarks were "not in keeping with the spirit of the governor's comments" on health care.
(Mr. Archer himself issued a statement of apology today. "I deeply regret that I have created an erroneous impression about Hispanics and teen pregnancy," the statement said in part.)
Mr. Bush's speech here in Cleveland was the third he had made since effectively winning the Republican nomination last month in which he moved away from the conservative tone of the primary campaign. Last week he visited another swing state, Pennsylvania, to propose environmental measures hastening cleanup of abandoned industrial sites. And a week before that, he unveiled a five-year, $5 billion program that would provide grants to states for teacher training and other measures to improve childhood literacy.
Under the plan he introduced here, Americans who have no health care coverage and are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid could receive a tax credit of up to $1,000 an individual or $2,000 a family to cover 90 percent of the cost of insurance. The credit would phase out with rising income, so that individuals earning $45,000 a year, or families earning $60,000, would no longer be eligible.
Mr. Bush's aides said the credit would be refundable, meaning that people would qualify even if they had no federal tax liability. And the tax credit could be "assignable": any refund due could go directly to the insurance company, either monthly or yearly, to help cover the premium.
Mr. Gore has proposed a more expansive, more government-based health care plan, whose cost he estimates at more than $346 billion over 10 years. Among other provisions, it would try to guarantee access to health coverage to all children by 2005, by expanding eligibility for the Children's Health Insurance Program, established three years ago for children in families not poor enough for Medicaid but not affluent enough to buy private insurance.
The costliest part of the Gore plan would be a $200 billion provision to create a prescription drug benefit under Medicare, an issue Mr. Bush was silent on today. His aides said the governor would address health care issues relating to the elderly later in the year.
Mr. Bush took pains today to distinguish his approach from that of the Democrats. "We will not nationalize our health care system," he said. "We will promote individual choice. We will rely on private insurance. But make no mistake: in my administration, low-income Americans will have access to high-quality health care."
Mr. Bush said the tax credit would help buy only basic coverage. "In most places in America," he said, "that means visits to a doctor, discounted prescriptions and hospitalization."
"The basics," he said, "but enough to ensure against sudden poverty."
Mr. Bush's approach does have some bipartisan support in Congress and is a favorite of some New Democrats, who often differ with their party's orthodoxy. But the Gore campaign questioned whether it would truly provide health insurance for the poor. Gore aides cited a recent study in Health Affairs magazine saying that similar proposals covered less than a third of the costs of a typical nongroup family insurance policy and were not sufficient to help those most in need.
Similarly, a leading expert on health care costs, Diane K. Rowland of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, voiced skepticism today over how much insurance the tax credits would cover. Ms. Rowland said that "the average cost in 1998 for a group family policy was $4,092." That, she said, is what fairly large employers would have to pay; individuals buying family insurance would find their rates "much higher." If less expensive policies could be created, she said, they "would not cover much."
Other provisions of Mr. Bush's plan would give states more leeway in how they administer the Children's Health Insurance Program. He would also encourage the development of multistate health plans among small businesses, and would expand and make more flexible two programs that give favored tax treatment to medical savings.
Mr. Bush also ventured into the area of home ownership today, noting that while the level of home ownership among whites was 73 percent, it was only 47 percent among blacks and Hispanics. He embraced legislation, already overwhelmingly passed by the House, that would allow families that get rent subsidies under the Title 8 housing program to instead opt to use up to a year's worth of rental vouchers to make a down payment on a home. He would also create a $1 billion fund that would give banks incentives to help with a down payment for first-time home buyers earning less than 80 percent of their area's median income.
In addition, to encourage savings, he would provide tax incentives to financial institutions that match deposits of up to $300 made by people earning less than 60 percent of their area's median income.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before delivering a speech yesterday, George W. Bush visited a Cleveland school for some retail politicking. (Associated Press)(pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND (OHIO); TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; TAX CREDITS; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; VOUCHERS HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); CHARITIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RELIGION (67%); TUBERCULOSIS (60%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000



315 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 6; Column 6; Circuits 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Designing A Cleaner, Quieter Snowmobile

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG 

 BODY:
CLEAN snowmobile" may sound like a contradiction in terms. Snowmobiles produce both noise and exhaust emissions, and the machines have numerous foes who want them banned from national parks and other locations.
But a group of engineering students at the State University of New York in Buffalo may lead the way toward rehabilitating these vehicles. The students won a design contest by retrofitting a used snowmobile to eliminate virtually 100 percent of its unburned hydrocarbon emissions and a great deal of its noise. 
 The retooled machine won first place in a contest for improved snowmobile design sponsored by the Society for Automotive Engineers, which announced the winner in Jackson Hole, Wyo., on April 4. Seven colleges competed.
"It's the beginning of a technical solution to a huge problem," said Dr. Lori Fussell of Wilson, Wyo., an environmental engineer who dreamed up the competition with a colleague two years ago and has been working on the project ever since. "People on the extremes of the issue want either unrestricted use or complete prohibition," Dr. Fussell said. "This way we can deal with it not as a political issue, but as a research one, finding ways to reduce pollution and noise at reasonable cost."
Competitors worked with two-year-old snowmobiles, former rentals from Yellowstone National Park. "National parks are extremely interested in a technological solution to this controversy," Dr. Fussell said.
The weeklong series of tests at Jackson Hole evaluated the snowmobiles for fuel economy, performance, design, noise and emissions. At the end, trophies were awarded, and the Buffalo team got $17,000 in prize money.
The Buffalo group, which won in all categories except performance (a combination of acceleration, hill climbing and handling) designed a four-stroke engine that reduced unburned hydrocarbons to undetectable levels when compared with controls.
The runner-up, the University of Waterloo in Ontario, reduced the amount of unburned hydrocarbons by 95 percent with a two-stroke engine.
Interested in joining the competition next year and improving the reputation of the snowmobile? Check the Society of Automotive Engineer's Web site (www.sae.org). 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO; SOCIETY FOR AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERS STATE UNIVERSITY RAILROAD CO (69%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO; SOCIETY FOR AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERS STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (51%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CONTESTS AND PRIZES; SNOWMOBILES; HYDROCARBONS; NOISE MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); ENGINEERING (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (89%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); 

PERSON: EISENBERG, ANNE LORI FUSSELL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



316 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: TURF;
When Money Isn't an Asset

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
MONEY makes the world go round, except when it isn't the right kind of money. Then you can't get into the co-op of your choice.
In Manhattan, both co-op and condominium boards have become increasingly picky about what type of bank accounts, savings plans and stocks potential apartment buyers hold. This new economic discrimination is being applied across the board -- whether East Village studio or Park Avenue palazzo. 
 Looking to buy a $350,000 one-bedroom? Most of your savings dutifully invested in your 401(k) plan at work? Forget about it! In a lot of buildings, brokers are saying your money is just not liquid enough.
More and more buildings like to see at least two times the price of the apartment in cash or easily negotiable securities. And a lot of buildings no longer count real estate in net worth. Brokers say it can't be cashed in fast enough; if you want your country house counted, you had better have a signed contract for its sale.
In certain buildings, investment bankers are personae non gratae, because they are thought by some to be a little too risky; much of their income is bonus money. "If the market goes bad, they won't get the bonuses, and there are no guarantees they'll have the wherewithal to carry the property when the economy's in trouble," Frederick W. Peters, president of Ashforth Warburg, said.
But realistically, a personal portfolio crash could happen to anyone these days who is heavily invested in the stock market. For people like Ben Narasin and his family, the liquid-cash problem is particularly frustrating; the family's wealth is tied up in restricted stock in his Internet company.
And as for Nasdaq holdings, they have to be "blue chip" Nasdaq holdings. "No weird dot-coms that no one has ever heard of, that just came out last week," I. Dolly Lenz, Sotheby's top-selling broker, said.
"I suppose if you're an attorney making $600,000 a year, that's more steady," Mr. Peters explained.
Even though the stock market trembles, the real estate market -- at least so far -- roars right along. This week, the Real Estate Board of New York released statistics that indicated the price of Upper East Side prewar co-ops had jumped 49 percent in two years. Postwar co-ops there jumped 40 percent in the last year alone, with even bigger advances on the Upper West Side.
Buoyed by increases like that, boards are exercising more power than ever over whom they accept, and where those applicants keep their money. "The feeling is that by rejecting a buyer they don't feel comfortable with, that they're not hurting the seller," Mr. Peters said. "They know there are others lined up who will probably pay even more."
Mr. Peters said that in one sumptuous prewar on the Upper East Side, the board has rejected seven applicants for one apartment, which is still for sale. "They were all perfectly qualified," he said. In another building, he added, "the board president came out and said, 'I just don't feel comfortable accepting an investment banker.' "
For boards today, it doesn't matter whether the money is old or new, the broker said. "But it has to be easily accessible," he added.
Mr. Narasin, his wife, Alexandra, and their two young children are exactly the kind of young family any co-op might be searching for: attractive, amiable and rich. But for some boards, not the right kind of rich. Mr. Narasin, 35, is the president and chief executive of fashionmall.com, a Web site that sells designer clothing. They are looking for a three- to five-bedroom apartment they can stay in for the rest of their lives. "We're just this normal family with kids looking for a place to live," Mr. Narasin said. But there's still a problem.
"The lion's share of my net worth is in the stock of my company, which is currently restricted," he added. His stock in fashionmall.com is locked up until May 22, one year after the company's initial public offering. Only then will he have the right to sell (and he says he doesn't want to). So at least for now, the family can't get into the kind of co-op they want.
In the last six months, they have looked at about 60 prewar co-op buildings in Carnegie Hill, Mrs. Narasin's first choice. "We haven't actually heard from a board about whether they would consider us," he said, "but the agents have told us they'd prefer another buyer."
Part of the problem for people like the Narasins is that sellers or their brokers may be turning them down -- long before their application is brought before the board. Within just the last year, more and more brokers for sellers, as part of "protecting" their clients, are demanding financial statements from people before they are even allowed to view an apartment, and certainly before they put in a bid. The sellers, who fear that the lack of liquid funds will result in a board rejection, don't want to waste time and lawyer fees on nonstarters.
"Often, it is not the co-op board, but the seller, who prefers someone whose assets are more liquid," said Eloise Johnson of Halstead, the Narasins' real estate agent. "Even though they look extremely good on paper, in reality, they cannot purchase the apartment of their dreams."
The required financial statements list income; assets, including stock portfolios, 401(k) and pension funds; and real estate holdings, all with valuations.
The Narasins have just moved from one rental to a larger one on East 96th Street, in a huge postwar brick tower. "All of our stuff is in storage," said Mrs. Narasin, 31, the alumnae director at the Birch Wathen Lenox School, a private school on the Upper East Side. "Ben won't let me decorate this apartment. It's really frustrating. I grew up in a wonderful home, and I want the same for my children. I don't want to do this anymore; I want my kids to have a home."
Then there is the couple, both C.P.A.'s, who are moving from Virginia, who make more than $600,000 a year -- but don't have the requisite amount of savings. They will accept almost any nice prewar apartment -- except one in what an agent called "the funeral parlor building."
"You know, the one next to Campbell's," said Ms. Lenz, referring to the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel on Madison Avenue. "They thought the lobby smelled of formaldehyde."
It is not always clear what the co-op and condominium boards are looking for -- perhaps because there are no hard and fast rules.
Thomas McGanney, president of the board at 40 East 84th Street, and a lawyer, said his board often discusses whether to raise the standards for admission. This white-brick postwar co-op now requires one-and-a-half times the asking price in assets, and is considering asking for more. "We discuss it whenever there's kind of a borderline case," he said.
Although Mr. McGanney said there had been no real problems, he added that the board generally questions anyone whose money is tied up in trust, and might ask for a maintenance guarantee -- a legally binding contract from a third party to pay the maintenance if the buyer defaults -- from the trustee.
His board gives an applicant's net worth statements the most thorough look.
"Some board members discount it if things are terribly overvalued -- like real estate," he said. "The most serious problem is these closely held private businesses that people put a high value on and there's no market to tell us if they're being accurate about the value."
The board has recently asked for guarantees from banks -- or from relatives. One broker cited the case of a 45-year-old buyer with a huge income and little savings, who needed a guarantee from his parents.
Often, the boards don't trumpet their requirements. But real estate agents say that 740 Park Avenue, one of the city's perennial Top 10 properties, has an unwritten rule: the co-op board wants the buyer to show at least 10 times the cost of the apartment in assets. So does 834 Park. So does 730 Park.
And agents won't show you the apartment if you don't measure up. At 40 East 84th Street, the board has written their rule right into the board application.
The Ritz Tower, a prewar co-op at the corner of East 57th Street and Park Avenue, now requires three times the apartment cost in assets. Ms. Lenz said: "And that's a lot for a building like this. I was shocked."
ANOTHER thing boards are doing is making dot-com paper millionaires put up a couple of years of maintenance payments in an escrow account.
"More and more, we're seeing escrows," said Ben Kirschenbaum, general counsel for the Insignia Residential Group, which manages 280 apartment buildings in New York City. Within the last year, he said, his company has been involved in negotiations for dozens of these escrow agreements -- and he said they have become so common in his buildings that there are probably many others he is not aware of.
"One year's worth of payments is predominant," he said, "but they may want to hold two years of payments."
In escrow cases, Mr. Kirschenbaum said, the sales contract will stipulate that at the end of a certain number of years, following "a perfect record of maintenance payments, the shareholder may request a refund." But even that, he pointed out, is subject to the whim of the board.
Mr. Narasin questions what is behind this rush to judge.
"I think the boards are being a little too aggressive," he said. "And by doing so, they're going to eliminate an awful lot of good people."
Mr. Peters said the boards' most recent behavior "doesn't really make any sense.".
"The people most at risk often turn out to be the young families who haven't had time to build up a lot of cash," he said, adding that those people are exactly the people these huge, coveted prewar apartments were built for.
"I mean, three- and four-bedroom apartments certainly weren't built for Grandma, even if she's loaded," he concluded. "She just doesn't need all those bedrooms."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: TIED UP -- With money in restricted Internet stocks, Ben and Alexandra Narasin can't get their dream co-op -- for now. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE BEN NARASIN (81%); FREDERICK W PETERS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



317 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Here Come The Big Parades

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The nation's capital is bracing for the springtime Invasion of the Demonstrators. The corner outside my office is patrolled by helmeted cops ordered to smile at marchers while snarling traffic; barricades channel the flow of picketing, chanting paraders; windows are being boarded up by nervous restaurateurs.
I love it. No dissident Chinese is allowed to protest in Tiananmen Square, and no apathetic Russian can be moved to hold up a sign in Red Square, but the streets around the White House are filled with Americans espousing their causes. 
 Under the banner of "Mobilization for Global Justice," here come anarchists allied with tree-huggers, prayer vigilantes, foreign-debt cancelers, Luddite globophobes and gutsy human rights activists. They seek to relive the battle of Seattle by disrupting next week's sessions of the I.M.F. and World Bank.
And look -- there are the 10,000 members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., arm-in-arm in solidarity with 5,000 Teamsters, headed up toward Capitol Hill to stiffen the sinews of Democrats who may be wavering in their opposition to President Clinton's plan to reward anti-union China with entry into the World Trade Organization.
That's only the beginning of the season's big parades. Next week comes the Earth Day rally and celebration on the Mall, hosted by the ABC newshawk Leonardo DiCaprio, possibly featuring Al Gore in his latest earth-tone outfit, which would give George W. Bush the opportunity to participate the week after in the gays' "Millennium March for Equality."
Militant matriarchs come next. The "Million Mom March," with Rosie O'Donnell at the anchor desk, will turn Mother's Day into a rally for stringent gun-control laws. (Will the N.R.A. counter with its own parade of "pistol-packin' mamas"?)
My favorite demo, scheduled for May 7 -- between the Sundays chosen by the gay Millennium Marchers and the Million Moms -- is the "Million Mutt March." This is advertised (on metropets.org/mmm) as the local part of "a nationwide effort to promote adoption of mixed-breed, older, and special-needs dogs, and help eliminate canine discrimination."
Karen Derrico, its organizer, informs me that 20 local animal shelters will join with lovers of companion animals to help end the stigma of cross-breeding. She never calls them mongrels ("dogs of blended heritage" is preferred) and does not expect a million to show up, any more than Rosie expects a million moms. Maybe a hundred or two sniffing around; it's just the alliteration every march now needs.
But one of my Bernese mountain dogs, Emily, is heartbroken. Berners are purebred, said to be descendants of the breed that led the Carthaginian general Hannibal's elephants across the Alps. Emily was chairbitch of last year's Bark Ball, a black-tie fund-raising event of the Humane Society, but because of her pedigree feels unwelcome at the Million Mutt March. (I may bring her to watch the marchers near the Capitol steps, if she will learn to "sit-stay.")
Is today's series of mobilizations different from the angry "new mobe" that sought to paralyze the government three decades ago?
In those days of Vietnam, troops in fighting gear patrolled our streets. Bumper-to-bumper buses ringed the White House to form an impenetrable barrier. A shrewd park service director denied the use of Lafayette Park to the protesters by fencing it off, ostensibly to repave the walkways with brick, a project the Nixon staff managed to string out for years.
No mood like that exists today. Some jerks will befoul the demonstrations by breaking windows or taunting patient cops into arrests, but the level of anger and resentment is of a different order of magnitude. These cell-phoned crowds are activist but not militant; today's "mobe" is no mob.
So bring on the signs and graffiti that provide gainful employment for camera crews. Make Loans Not War; Gay Bankers Forgive Debts; Put That Pistol Down, Ma; Adopt a Mutt, Jeff.
Whether you agree or not, or watch on TV or from the middle of a traffic jam, take pride in Washington's peaceful parade of parades. Be a playgoer at the thrilling street theater of freedom.
Standing at curbside, Emily and I will urge on the outdoor activists as they exercise their legs, lungs and rights. (Sit! Stay.) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (66%); AFL-CIO (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); RUSSIA; CHINA; VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; VIETNAM WAR EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DOGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); RIOTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); EARTH DAY (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); GUN CONTROL (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); POLITICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PETS (65%); ANIMALS (64%); ANIMAL WELFARE (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (57%); AL GORE (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



318 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Democracy has the edge when it comes to advancing growth.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick; This column appears here every Thursday. Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and adjunct professor of social sciences at Cooper Union. Four economic analysts -- Mr. Madrick, Virginia Postrel, Alan B. Krueger and J. Bradford DeLong -- rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
IS democracy valuable on economic grounds alone?
As thousands rally in protest against the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund at their annual spring meetings in Washington this week, that question takes on particular importance. One provocative answer is proposed by Amartya Sen, the 1998 Nobel Prize winner in economics and currently the master of Trinity College in Cambridge, England. In his book, "Development As Freedom" (Knopf, 1999), Mr. Sen argues that the economic value of democracy should not be judged on its contribution to economic growth. Rather, democracy should be sought as an economic end in itself, just like higher incomes. Freedom is essential, he argues, to a full life. 
 As appealing as this thought is, however, Mr. Sen may sound to some a little defensive about the economic value of freedom. If he is, the reason may be that in the past couple of decades democracy has taken it on the chin in certain economic circles. Many largely authoritarian developing economies, like South Korea, Singapore, Chile and China, grew rapidly while democratic developing nations like India did not fare as well.
The general argument is that democracies usually stress investment too little and social spending too much. They have difficulty controlling inflation and defending currencies, thus chasing away foreign capital. Moreover, when economists subject the performance of democracies to rigorous statistical analysis, they find no significant relationship between democracy and growth.
But Mr. Sen and others may be trying too hard to accommodate these studies. And the protesters in Washington, who essentially want international financial institutions to be more accountable to a broader range of the world's citizens, may have a stronger point than is generally acknowledged. As economists look more closely at the evidence, the case for democracy's contribution to the economy looks stronger precisely because these governments must take into account the needs of most of their people.
As one reads deeper into his book, Mr. Sen clearly agrees. He wants it both ways -- that democracy is good for both psychic and material well-being -- and he increasingly looks correct.
First of all, we should be clear about what the statistical analyses of democracy actually say. Economists may not be able to show that democracy contributes to growth, but the same research cannot demonstrate, with any statistical significance, that authoritarian governments on average produce faster growth, either.
Further, as Dani Rodrik of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard points out, the economic performance of authoritarian nations is either very good or very bad. By contrast, the economic growth of most democratic nations occupies the middle ground -- reasonably strong and usually stable. If we had to choose blindly in which country we would prefer to live, any person interested in a decent income would choose a democracy over authoritarianism because a much higher proportion of them perform well.
A new study by two young economists, Jose Tavares of the University of California at Los Angeles and Romain Wacziarg of Stanford University adds further weight to the case for democracy. In particular, the research, as yet unpublished, finds that democratic nations invest significantly more on average in human capital -- essentially, education. Most economists argue that such development of human capital is critical to economic growth over time.
There is a wrinkle, however. The study also finds that many authoritarian governments invest more in plants and equipment than do democracies. As a result of such physical capital investment, some -- mostly a handful of rapidly growing nations in Southeast Asia -- have achieved greater economic gains.
Even if it is true that authoritarian governments invest more in physical capital -- and there are some technical reasons to doubt the evidence -- democracy has the edge in the long run. Authoritarian governments may be better at making the large initial investments in infrastructure and basic manufacturing that help start growth. The dictatorial Southeast Asian regimes might well have succeeded in important part by emulating existing Western and Japanese technology. Even the Soviet Union performed well for several decades through focused investment in such well-tried sources of growth as large steel and oil facilities.
But over time, democracies will produce more diversified ideas and the freer flow of information required to move to a more advanced stage of development. Consider how rapidly India is growing today, and how pre-eminent its computer software industry is. Democracies also generally have less tolerance for elite social groups or monopolistic organizations that maintain a stranglehold over innovation and markets.
In fact, we emphasize too little how democracy stimulated America's own economic growth through early demands for thousands of corporate charters, which made competition possible, guaranteed access to property for most citizens, and the revolutionary development of a free and mandatory education system. Today, the United States is even willing to take the measure of William H. Gates in an antitrust suit.
"Would any other nation in the world challenge its leading technological businessman?" asks Mr. Rodrik. Some authoritarian nations, from Korea to Chile, are also becoming more democratic as they grow, but it remains to be seen how completely they have shed the controlling habits of their dictatorial past.
As we enter an information age, human capital will become all the more important, and so will democracy. How to create and process new ideas will further displace physical capital as the determinant of economic growth.
So, contrary to the claims of some experts who look down their noses at the Washington protesters, these groups may not be facing backward at all. Some of them may be naive, but their demand for recognition of a broader range of human needs may be more critical to good economic policy today than ever before.
Sometimes democracy is troublesome, of course, and democracy can be managed as poorly as other forms of government. But the founding fathers issued similar warnings about America's burgeoning democracy 200 years ago. Over time, it worked best.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amartya Sen, an economist, says democracy should be sought as an economic end in itself. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); DEVELOPMENT AS FREEDOM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); TRENDS (75%); CURRENCIES (73%); INFLATION (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); STATISTICS (70%); POLITICS (67%); 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFFREY; SEN, AMARTYA JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



319 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN GAINS. The yen rallied after the governor of the Bank of Japan suggested the bank was poised to raise interest rates for the first time in a decade. In New York, the dollar settled at 105.80 yen, down from 107.09.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since Oct., 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



320 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Reports World Growth Accelerating After Setbacks

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
The final strains of the financial virus that toppled emerging market economies around the world have dissipated, allowing the world economy to regain its health and to grow at its fastest pace in more than a decade, the International Monetary Fund said today.
In its twice-yearly World Economic Outlook the monetary fund forecast that the global economy, led by the persistently robust growth in the United States, would expand at a 4.2 percent rate in 2000, its fastest pace since 1988. The fund's economists estimated that growth would taper off slightly in 2001 to 3.9 percent. 
 But the fund warned that a number of things cloud that rosy outlook, including lopsided growth among countries, currencies that appear to be out of whack with one another and high stock prices in some countries, including the United States. The fund said that the United States needs to engineer a soft landing for its economy, that Europe must not kill off faster economic growth with rising interest rates, and that Japan needs to put some zest in its "fragile" recovery.
"Evidence of a strong rebound in the global economy has continued to accumulate in recent months and the momentum of the recovery from the 1997-98 slowdown has proven much stronger than anticipated," the I.M.F. said. "At the same time, considerable uncertainty remains about the sustainability of the expansion in some countries."
The Washington-based fund, which monitors the world's macro economy and makes loans to poor and middle-income countries, sounded a strong note of caution about the United States. Though the fund estimated that the United States will grow at a faster-than-average rate of 4.4 percent this year and 3 percent next year, it cited numerous signs of financial excess that could derail the expansion and wallop the rest of the world.
Overvalued stock markets, the widespread use of credit, record low savings rates and a giant gap between the amount the United States spends on goods abroad, and the much smaller amount that foreigners spend on American goods create worrying "imbalances" that could make any economic downturn in this country sharper than it would otherwise be, it said.
The most likely scenario for the United States economy is a soft landing in which the expansion slows a bit before picking up again, the fund said. But it also cited a less likely set of events in which a pick up of inflation, a 25 percent slump in stock prices and a 20 percent dive in the value of the dollar combine to bring United States growth to a sudden halt -- a hard landing. In that case, worldwide economic growth would be a full percentage point lower than otherwise, the fund estimated.
"Very high valuations, particularly in the technology and bio-tech sectors, continue to pose the risk of a large market correction and a sharper economic slowdown" in the United States, the report said.
The release of the fund's economic outlook came just before the formal beginning of the annual spring meetings at the fund and its sister agency, the World Bank. Financial ministers from around the world will arrive in Washington this weekend to review the performance of the fund and the bank, which together seek to maintain economic stability and alleviate poverty.
The meetings have attracted a much larger than usual response from groups wary of globalization, especially some nongovernment organizations that support environmental, religious and third-world development causes. Protesters said they will attempt to shut down the meetings because they accuse the two lending agencies of supporting corporations over poor nations and rampant free-market capitalism over sustainable development.
But from the monetary fund's perspective, the spring meetings are in some respects less stressful than they have been for several years. Many nations that receive I.M.F. aid, including long-slumping Russia, are performing better than expectations, meaning that the fund is in the position of ratcheting up estimates of growth rather than lowering them as it has had to do in recent years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



321 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: CAPITALIST ADVICE
An independent-minded pro-capitalist economist will serve as adviser to President-elect Vladimir V. Putin, Mr. Putin's spokesman said. Mr. Putin has yet to outline a detailed economic program. But his selection of Andrei Illarionov, 38, is a sign he will follow a program of free-market reforms. Mr. Illarionov has criticized Russian dependence on the International Monetary Fund. Michael Gordon (NYT) 

BRITAIN: PUTIN TO MEET QUEEN
Russia's president-elect, Vladimir V. Putin, will meet Queen Elizabeth II at Windsor Castle during his trip to Britain next week, Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said. Mr. Blair's spokesman, Alastair Campbell, said the Prime Minister and Mr. Putin would discuss the Russian economy, the Chechnya conflict, the Balkans and cooperation in fighting crime and drugs. Sarah Lyall (NYT)
 
GERMANY: U.S. TO SKIP EXPO
The United States will not take part in Expo 2000, opening in Hanover on June 1. A statement issued in Berlin by the United States commissioner for Expo, William D. Rollnick, said he had been unable to raise sufficient funds from the private sector. The mayor of Hanover, Herbert Schmalstieg, said "nobody will miss the United States." More than 190 other countries will take part. Roger Cohen (NYT)
 
SWITZERLAND: KOSOVARS EXPELLED
Switzerland has expelled the first group of Kosovo Albanians who sought refuge during the fighting in Kosovo last year. The 60 people flown to Pristina are the first of up to 30,000 Kosovars who officials plan to return forcibly by the end of this year. A full-scale effort is set to begin in June, when financial incentives being offered for returning voluntarily expire. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
LATVIA: PREMIER QUITS
In a surprise move, Prime Minister Andris Skele resigned after two of the three parties in his coalition government withdrew in a privatization dispute. Politicians said it could be a month before a new administration is in place. Analysts said that unless fresh faces and ideas are brought in, privatization might grind to a halt, hurting the economy. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
CHINA: U.S. TALKS SET
China said it would resume talks with the United States on limiting the spread of nuclear weapons, ending a suspension that followed the bombing of China's embassy in Belgrade. The reversal follows China's rejection of a formal American explanation that the bombing was accidental, paired with the C.I.A.'s dismissal of one agent and punishment of six others. Resumption of the talks leaves human rights the only area in which Beijing has so far refused to resume talks with Washington. Craig S. Smith (NYT)
 
JAPAN: GOVERNOR REPLIES
Facing growing criticism, Gov. Shintaro Ishihara of Tokyo said he was not referring to Korean residents when he used a derogatory term used to disparage Koreans and other foreigners at the end of World War II. While he expressed regret that Koreans were offended, Mr. Ishihara said he still considers foreigners who enter or stay in Japan illegally "very troublesome." Calvin Sims (NYT)
 
PAKISTAN: SHARIF APPEALS
The ousted prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, convicted last week of hijacking and given a life sentence, has appealed the verdict. A two-judge panel will hear arguments in the case, though no date has been set. Mr. Sharif's six co-defendants, all of whom were acquitted, remain locked up, each under investigation on corruption charges. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
INDONESIA: SUHARTO RESTRICTED
State investigators, fearing former President Suharto might try to flee to escape corruption charges, barred him from leaving the country for six months. Chaerul Imam, a government lawyer heading the investigation against the 78-year-old ex-leader, said he made the decision after receiving reports that Mr. Suharto's children had been planning to get him out of the country. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: SETTLERS EXPANDING
For the second day in a row, Jewish settlers in the West Bank started an expansion project without government approval to protest a government freeze on approving new construction. They began bulldozing near Efrat on Tuesday and continued near Har Hilo, where they said they plan to build 230 homes. The police acted when a Peace Now protest threatened to lead to a confrontation. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: UNIVERSITY HIT AGAIN
Dissident students closed seven departments or schools at the National Autonomous University of Mexico in what they announced as a 24-hour strike. An attempt to re-open talks with the dissidents failed Tuesday after only one session. The students, who led a nine-month strike that ended Feb. 6, are demanding the release of about 30 protesters still in jail after the strike. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
BRAZIL: POLICE VERDICT VOIDED
An appeals court in the Amazonian state of Para has overturned the acquittal of three commanders of a police detachment that killed 19 unarmed peasants four years ago. The original verdict in last August's trial set off outrage in Brazil because of reports of bribed jurors and what rights groups called procedural irregularities. A retrial was ordered, after which the 147 men the officers led are also expected to be judged on the same charges. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
WESTERN SAHARA: PESSIMISM ON PACT
A United Nations special envoy, former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, said in Madrid that efforts to reach an accord on Western Sahara are in "big trouble." Morocco claims sovereignty over the former Spanish colony, for which the Polisario Front has sought independence for more than 25 years. Plans for a vote in Western Sahara on whether to become independent or part of Morocco have been stalled by claims the voting lists are being packed with people sympathetic to Morocco. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LATVIA (74%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LATVIA (74%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (75%); TONY BLAIR (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



322 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Rising Cost of Housing Still No Match for Sky-High 80's

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
While home prices in the New York metropolitan region, and particularly in Manhattan, have skyrocketed in the last two years, they have not reached the stratospheric levels of the late 1980's when adjusted for inflation, experts say.
In fact, although prices for some Manhattan co-ops regularly reach seven and even eight digits and the cost of vastly more modest housing has also risen sharply, those prices, when adjusted for inflation, have not returned to what Dr. James W. Hughes, dean of the Rutgers University School of Planning and Public Policy, called the "peak of the real estate bubble" of the late 80's. After the bubble burst, prices plummeted and moved upward only modestly in the early and mid-1990's. 
 Then suddenly, in the past two years, prices began to shoot up again, making people wonder if the market was again overpriced. But Dr. Hughes and others say that when inflation is taken into account, the recent growth has not made up for the years of lost ground.
According to the National Association of Realtors, the median price in 1989 for an existing single-family home in the greater New York region was $183,200. In 1999, it was $203,200 -- an increase of 10.9 percent. But when adjusted for inflation, the 1989 median price would be $246,140, or 17.4 percent more than now.
The same would hold true for apartment prices in Manhattan, said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, the appraisal firm that prepares the Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Report. In 1989, Mr. Miller said, the median sale price of co-ops and condominiums from Battery Park north to East 96th Street and West 116th Street, was $265,000. In 1999, that median was $320,000, a 20.8 percent increase.
But in 1999 dollars, Mr. Miller said, the old 1989 price would be $359,150, which is 12.2 percent higher than the median price today.
Dr. Hughes at Rutgers put it in perspective: "We had an enormous price run-up during the boom years of the 1980's." For example, between 1980 and the peak in 1988, he said, home prices rose by 145 percent in New Jersey.
"This was not sustainable," Dr. Hughes said. "The bubble then burst as the region fell into the worst recession since the Great Depression, and we had a significant price wipeout."
During the first half of the recovery, starting in 1992, housing price increases lagged behind inflation, and they remained relatively moderate through 1997. "Only in 1998 and '99 did prices throughout the region really accelerate," Dr. Hughes said, "so by 2000 many market sectors still have not eclipsed their 1989 peak, while in specific hot-market areas they have eclipsed their old highs."
As for the lofty peaks of Manhattan real estate, the "hue and cry of the cocktail party circuit is that apartment prices have gone berserk, off the page," said Clark Halstead, founder of the Manhattan brokerage firm that bears his name. Mr. Halstead said that the price increases in Manhattan have been "modest, disciplined over the last decade," compared with other investments, like stocks.
"And that is remarkable," he said, "when you think that the supply of apartments is nearly fixed, whereas down on Wall Street they can cook up more stock any time they want by doing stock splits, whole ranges of hybrid new securities, I.P.O.'s."
In arguing his case, Mr. Halstead cited statistics from his company's records indicating that the median price per room for all apartments below 96th Street was $89,067 in April 1990 and is now $222,108 -- a compound rate of return of 9.8 percent annually over the 10-year period. During the same period, he noted, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index increased to 1,500 from 400, with a compound annual rate of return of 14.1 percent.
"So the lesson here," he said, "is that those who get hysterical about increasing apartment prices should temper their hysteria with the thought that apartment prices have lagged behind securities prices."
"Yes, but. . . ." said Prof. Michael Schill, the director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law, pointing out that home-buying prospects for most people were tied more to their pay stubs than stocks.
"Although housing may not have outpaced the Standard & Poor's index, it is important to recognize that homes are different from normal investments," Professor Schill said. "People have to have a place to live in order to survive and prosper. And the average New Yorker's wages have not increased by 9.8 percent a year over the last decade, much less at the rate of the S.&P. index."
Professor Schill said the city's 1999 Housing and Vacancy Survey showed that the proportion of New York City households spending more than 35 percent of their incomes in rent -- renters constituting the largest pool of potential first-time home buyers -- had risen by about eight percentage points since 1989. That means 736,366 households, or 41.1 percent of all renters, are paying more than 35 percent of their income for rent.
"With respect to home ownership," Professor Schill said, "a typical New York renter household today would find it extremely difficult or impossible to purchase an average-priced home, particularly given the recent run-up in mortgage interest rates."
In assessing the direction of the housing market, Rae Rosen, the senior regional economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, also cited that increase in mortgage rates. Rates have risen by 1.5 percentage points over the past year, she said, "so the cost of financing a house has definitely become more expensive." Interest on the standard 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage is now about 8.5 percent.
"That's going to slow the rate of sales, somewhat, but it will still be at a very high level," Ms. Rosen said. "Sales are closely tied to job growth, however, and we have considerable job growth ahead of us in the region. So that's why I think housing demand should remain reasonably strong, keeping prices up for some time to come. And then we might have some price-strength temperance."
Dr. Hughes at Rutgers said "many market sectors of the region have seen a virtual price frenzy over the last two years, and it's probably not sustainable in the long term."
He added, "The housing worm will turn when buyers' desperate fear of being left behind is replaced by the fear of purchasing just as the market peaks. But that psychological shift has not taken place yet, and the regional economic engine still has all pistons pumping." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); CITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS WOLFE 'JONATHAN' MILLER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



323 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush Proposes New Spending For More Health Care Services

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, April 12

 BODY:
For the second day in a row, Gov. George W. Bush kept his campaign focused on health care, touring a community clinic and proposing to spend an additional $4.3 billion over five years to expand health care services to the needy in the inner cities and remote rural communities.
The Texas governor visited the Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Center, located in a traditionally Democratic area of Missouri. He then made his announcement this morning flanked by doctors and nurses, black and white, creating another campaign tableau showing him with members of minority groups. 
 "Our society resolved long ago to provide a safety net for those in the most desperate circumstances -- a safety net that includes income support, housing assistance and health services," Mr. Bush said, a day after he proposed that $41.6 billion be spent across five years in tax credits, tax incentives and vouchers to help lower income Americans buy health insurance and buy their own homes.
Today he added a few more proposals, for a $3.6 billion increase over five years in federal aid to create 1,200 new community and migrant health centers to serve inner city and rural residents without health insurance. He also proposed a $500 million fund to make grants for pilot programs that try to address particular health problems, like diabetes. And he called for some changes in the operations of a federal scholarship program that places physicians in areas short of doctors.
Until this week, Mr. Bush had largely been silent on health care. But the latest proposals are part of a sustained drive by the presumptive Republican nominee to try to eat into the traditional Democratic advantage on issues like education and health care, which have moved to the forefront of public concern in a time of peace and economic prosperity.
With experts questioning whether Mr. Bush's centerpiece initiative for the uninsured -- tax credits of up to $2,000 -- would help low and moderate income families buy health insurance, Vice President Al Gore went on the offensive against Mr. Bush, asserting that hundreds of thousands of Texans lack health insurance "because of the political malpractice of the Bush administration."
Mr. Gore, whose campaign has been pointing to the state of Texas' grim statistics on public health issues and its high numbers of residents without health insurance, accused Mr. Bush of posturing on issues of public concern.
"He wants us to believe he's committed to issues like education, health care and the environment," Mr. Gore said in an appearance in Washington before newspaper editors. He added, "We need the nation's reporters and editors to challenge every assumption and question every proposal."
Asked as he was shaking hands with members of his audience whether he had any response to Mr. Gore, the Texas governor refused to be drawn into the fray, telling a reporter, "Not right now, thank you." Though he plans to hold a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Bush has not taken questions in two days in an effort to keep attention from being diverted from his health care announcements.
It was left to his spokesman, Ari Fleischer, to reply. "The worse Al Gore does in the polls, the more he attacks and misrepresents Governor Bush's record," he said. "Pretty soon Al Gore will say he invented health care," he needled in an allusion to Mr. Gore's remark last year taking credit for the development of the Internet.
Mr. Bush's advisers said they were delighted to see Mr. Gore having to fight back on issues on which the Democrats have traditionally dominated and they were heartened by the governor's slight rise ahead of Mr. Gore in several recent national polls, although in each case his lead was within the margin of sampling error. Mr. Fleischer said Mr. Bush would continue making policy speeches throughout the spring.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas emphasized his plans to improve health care yesterday for the second day as he campaigned in St. Louis, where he met with workers at the Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Center. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF TEXAS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST LOUIS (MO); UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 HEALTH CARE (91%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); FAMILY (73%); CITIES (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (53%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



324 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Keeping Their Core Together

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
IN that murky never-never land, somewhere between New Jersey and Long Island, the Jets were sending away their very best football player. Like most teams in most towns, the Jets were officially starting over.
Up in the Bronx, the only thing that seems to change is the height of Andrew Giuliani as he soars upward toward the Yankee cap on his father's head. 
 If you didn't pay attention to the subtleties, it could still be the 20th century, with the bunting flapping in the breeze for the home opener, Joe Torre feigning serenity and the sun and wind playing havoc with the visiting left fielder.
And when it really mattered, there was good old Paulie and good old Bernie and good old Tino whacking the ball, and good old Mariano inflicting another demoralization on the Texas Rangers, 8-6.
It has been happening so long that it could get to be boring, except that sports fans tend to admire excellence, and so do the players who perform it.
"You never get tired of winning," said good old Derek Jeter, who precedes the aforementioned good-olds in the lineup. "There's a lot of tradition here, a lot of memories."
The amazing thing is that a good chunk of tradition and memories are still going around in a Yankee uniform. Nobody has dealt Bernie Williams for a bunch of callow youths out of Florida State. Nobody is cutting David Cone or Paul O'Neill to fit a salary cap, or justify a youth movement. Nobody has underestimated Tino Martinez, not yet.
"This team is a throwback, and that's important to fans," Brian Cashman, the 33-year-old general manager, said. "I can trust people's track record. I don't believe players just suddenly turn old at 37."
In the bad old days, Yankees' domination should have been the subject of a Congressional anti-monopoly hearing. Now, stability seems almost refreshing.
Consider the alternative. Jets fans got used to seeing Keyshawn Johnson catch the ball over the middle, with a linebacker about to clobber him on the spinal column. Then the Jets' new owner lets Johnson get away to save money and accumulate draft choices, some of whom might even turn out to be worth it.
Cashman does not claim to understand the economics or the mind-set of football, but he has heard that the Dallas Cowboys geared up for another championship era by trading Herschel Walker for bodies and draft choices.
"Sometimes you have to make a change," Cashman said. "Look at the great trade Doug Melvin made for the Rangers. He couldn't keep Juan Gonzalez, so he got some good new players. That happens in sport."
Football is driven by shared network television money that allows a Tampa Bay to sign a Keyshawn while baseball is rendered inequitable by local television money. Plus, Cashman said, the Yankees' longevity is a tribute to five straight leaps in attendance.
Besides, the king in his counting house has not made a grievous error in a very long time, although the Yankees do practice attrition. Letting John Wetteland walk after 1996 did not hurt because Mariano Rivera was ready. They already miss Joe Girardi and Luis Sojo, considered expendable after last year. But in Yankee Stadium, the center continues to hold, and it feels all right because there is not a certified jerk among them.
The players appreciate their continuity, but they also understand mobility, particularly if it makes them rich, or enhances their own hometown team. Martinez, with his roots in the Ybor City section of Tampa, Fla., had his own take on the enrichment of Keyshawn Johnson.
"I think it was great," Martinez said after the game. "I'm a Buccaneer fan. I loved it. I'm sorry, but he's a big-time player."
Who could not admire a man signing for $56 million? But the Yankees manage to get rich and stay put. This will be the eighth season in the Bronx for O'Neill, the eighth full season for Williams and the fifth for Martinez.
"They are all professional hitters," Jeter said. "They know they don't have to hit a home run. They are content to hit singles."
It must be fun to be a Yankee fan. There was Bob Sheppard, managing to sound dignified on his 50th opening day despite the witless sound effects blasting from the loudspeaker. There was good old Zim, his fertile noggin secure behind a brand-new fence in front of the dugout. And there was Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani stiffing potential voters and donators upstate in order to sit with his kid in the cold for the long game, and watch his guys win on opening day.
Win or lose in November, he won't be mayor much longer. But his team does not have term limits and does not appear to be going away.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Champions raise flag. (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (86%); DALLAS, TX, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS; TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK JETS (94%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS; TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK JETS (94%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (86%); DALLAS, TX, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; TRADES (SPORTS); BASEBALL; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); MONOPOLIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE; JOHNSON, KEYSHAWN DEREK JETER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



325 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Another Sell-Off in Technology Pushes Nasdaq Into Bear Market

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Investors jettisoned technology stocks yesterday, driving the Nasdaq composite index down 7.06 percent, or 286.27 points, to 3,769.63. The slide was the sixth largest in percentage terms and the second largest in points in the index's history.
Much of the money being pulled out of technology shares shifted into old-economy stocks during the day, but the buying was abruptly halted in the final hour, transforming a 1.22 percent advance in the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average into a 1.43 percent decline. The Dow closed down 161.95 points, at 11,125.13. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index plummeted 33.42 points, to 1,467.17. 
 The Nasdaq has now fallen 25.3 percent from its peak on March 10, sinking into the territory of a 20 percent or greater retreat that Wall Street designates as a bear market.
"People are fleeing the tech sector and throwing the money at what they were castigating two weeks ago," said Thomas Rath, a vice president and portfolio manager at Safeco Asset Management.
No development stood out as a cause for the latest wave of selling. But analysts said contributing factors may have been the slide in Microsoft's shares after a leading stock analyst lowered his revenue expectations for the company; a battering of Motorola's stock on Tuesday, and again yesterday, after the company warned of slower growth; some unusually pointed comments by a Federal Reserve governor about the need to keep raising interest rates; uncertainty over upcoming government reports on inflation; and some investors raising cash to meet Monday's deadline for paying their 1999 income taxes.
Stocks were also pressured by margin calls, with some traders giving up on losing positions and others selling stocks to raise cash to maintain their positions.
"It's a long overdue re-evaluation in the new-economy stocks," said Alfred E. Goldman, chief strategist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. But it is not a bubble being burst, he contended, just a fairly normal downturn that "reduces excesses and complacency" and should prove generally beneficial.
After the close, Advanced Micro Devices announced first-quarter profit that surpassed the most optimistic forecasts, and its stock climbed sharply in late trading. Wall Street has been expecting strong profits, especially for technology companies, during the reporting season that is just beginning.
Despite this week's carnage, analysts said some stability might emerge in coming days if technology stocks are seen as bargains and earnings reports, like that of Advanced Micro Devices, meet or exceed expectations. Some, in fact, said that the stock market declines would slow the economy and reduce the Fed's inclination to raise interest rates again.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, "is obviously achieving his goal of compressing price-earnings ratios and bringing down prices of technology" shares, said Paul McManus, senior vice president of Independence Investment Associates in Boston. "There might be the outside possibility that he might not have to raise rates again."
And while the Dow sank 161.95 points yesterday after being up as much as 138.37 points, its technology components accounted for virtually all of it. Hewlett-Packard, Intel, and I.B.M. were its biggest drags while Microsoft was the fifth biggest.
Fourteen of the Dow's 30 components ended with gains, paced by American Express, one of the many winners among financial stocks in the session.
Before the final-hour slump in the blue chips and other old-economy stocks, some portfolio managers who had favored those over technology were hoping that the playing field was becoming level.
"Managers who are suffering with good-quality stocks can finally breathe again," said Hersh Cohen, a value-oriented portfolio manager at Salomon Smith Barney. "The laggards have picked up. It's great."
But Mr. Cohen added that he thought relatively few investors, especially those in mutual funds, have yet to realize the severity of the damage to their portfolios and that he would be "amazed" if there was much of a rally in the market generally within the next few weeks.
One sign of a possible shift in emphasis was that a PaineWebber analyst began coverage of Ford and General Motors, calling the former a "buy," the latter "attractive."
Turnover was heavy, with 1.9 billion shares traded on the Nasdaq market and 1.18 billion shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Advancing issues on the Big Board beat declining ones by a slim margin, 1,526 to 1,481, with 56 issues making new 52-week highs and 45 new lows.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Decline
 (By Reuters) -- Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as investors fled government securities to take advantage of higher yields in other debt markets.
The worst of the day's losses were trimmed in late trading, however, as the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index headed lower.
Treasury prices slid early, adding to those losses after a Federal Reserve governor, Laurence Meyer, speaking in Toronto, asserted that the risk of overheating in the United States economy was unacceptably high.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 24/32, to 106 6/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.81 percent from 5.76 percent on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pradip Duria, a trader at Generic Trading in Manhattan, reacts to one of the worst days ever for Nasdaq stocks. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"
Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly.
 
Graph shows 30-year and 15-year Yields since Dec. (pg. C9)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); AMD (NYSE) (52%); AMD (FRA) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



326 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Advanced Micro Earnings Sharply Exceed Forecasts
Driven by strong sales of its Athlon microprocessors, Advanced Micro Devices posted first-quarter earnings that were nearly double Wall Street's recently revised estimates.
Advanced Micro reported earnings of $189.3 million, or $1.15 a share, sharply exceeding Wall Street expectations of 58 cents a share. Before Advanced Micro reported the results, its shares closed at $68, down 31.25 cents. In after-hours trading, they surged as high as $76. Analysts said the results could help stabilize the Nasdaq and technology stocks in general, especially if other companies meet or exceed estimates. Page C2. 

Advanced Micro's growth was all the more startling on a day when a key analyst reduced his estimates for Microsoft, citing slower than expected personal computer sales. C8.
 
Sotheby's Denies It Fixed Prices
Sotheby's denied conspiring with its rival auction house Christie's to fix commissions for buyers and sellers and asked a federal judge to dismiss civil suits filed against them. C6.
 
Telstra to Acquire Wireless Stake
Pacific Century CyberWorks, which is acquiring Cable and Wireless HTK, Hong Kong's local telephone company, said it would sell 40 percent of the company's mobile phone business to Telstra, the dominant phone company of Australia, for $1.5 billion. C4.
 
J. P. Morgan Has a Record Profit
J. P. Morgan said that its first-quarter profit rose nearly 5 percent, to a record $628 million, thanks to robust investment banking, trading and money management revenues. C2.
 
N.T.T. Aims to Bolster Profits
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, the Japanese telecommunications giant that has reorganized over the last year to become more adaptable and profitable, announced further plans to better position itself for an explosion in demand for Internet-related services. The company acknowledged that the plan was long on vision and short on details. "There is nothing of substance here written in this report," said Junichiro Miyazu, the company's president. "But it shows we must start thinking." C4.
 
Union Members Oppose China Deal
Thousands of steelworkers, truck drivers, auto workers and other union members rallied on Capitol Hill and swept through the halls of Congress in a show of muscle intended to block a trade agreement with China. A8.
 
The International Monetary Fund forecast that the global economy, led by the persistently robust growth in the United States, would expand at a 4.2 percent rate in 2000, its fastest pace since 1988. A9.
 
Offering Set for China Web Portal
Sina.com, China's most popular Internet portal, is set to go public in the United States later this week. But investors who buy the stock will not own a stake in the company. Instead, they will have a piece of Sina.com's offshore Web sites, a fraction of its core business. C4.
 
E*Trade Reports $23.2 Million Loss
E*Trade Group, the Internet brokerage firm, said that it lost $23.2 million in its most recent quarter, reversing a profit in the comparable period of 1999, but the results beat forecasts. Its revenue more than doubled. C6.
 
Time Warner Posts Quarterly Loss
Time Warner reported higher earnings in most of its businesses but still posted a net loss for the first quarter, mainly because of a write-down for Columbia House. C6.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,125.13 down 161.95
Nasdaq composite -- 3,769.63 down 286.27
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.81% up 0.05
The euro -- $0.9567 down 0.0030
The dollar -- 105.80yen down 1.29
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Producer Prices and Retail Sales since Sept.
 
Graph tracks Advanced Micro Devices share price since Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 0008 (HKSE) (55%); NTT (NYSE) (55%); NPN (LSE) (55%); 9432 (TSE) (55%); SINA (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); PCCW LTD (55%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (55%); SINA CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (87%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (87%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); JUDGES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (60%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



327 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Unions March in Washington, Urging Congress to Defeat Trade Agreement With China

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
Thousands of steelworkers, truck drivers, auto workers and other union members rallied on Capitol Hill and swept through the halls of Congress today in a show of muscle intended to block a trade agreement with China.
Their message, conveyed by union leaders and rank-and-file members who came from as far away as Michigan and Nebraska, was that trade was working for American corporations but not for American workers. 
 While the immediate issue is whether Congress should approve a deal negotiated by the Clinton administration to bring China into the World Trade Organization, the rally was also a forum for a more diffuse anxiety about economic globalization and its effects on job security at home and on poverty, the environment and human rights around the world.
"This is part of a long-term campaign to make the global economy work for working families," John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., told the thousands of placard-waving union members assembed on the west side of the Capitol.
The day served to kick off a series of demonstrations planned by a diverse coalition of groups for much of the next week around meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
Along with the World Trade Organization, those institutions have come to embody, to their critics at least, the perils of placing corporate and financial concerns ahead of ordinary people in managing the increasingly free flow of money, jobs and goods across borders.
Many union members attending today's rally said they were not against trade in general and were not naively demanding a return to a simpler, more secure world. Instead, they said, they are only opposing a deal with a country that does not respect workers' rights and would stop at nothing, in their view, to steal the jobs that are the backbone of the American middle class.
"Asking our leaders to keep our jobs in our country is not living in the past," said Jim Brookins, a quality control technician and local union official who traveled here from Rayland, Ohio. "It's preparing for the future."
Proponents of the trade deal with China said that the unions were misguided and that the best route to a stronger economy and more security for workers was to open up new markets for American goods. The agreement would make permanent the normal trade relations that China has with the United States, which are now subject to annual renewal.
"A few thousand people bused to Washington today by A.F.L.-C.I.O. labor bosses can't change the fact that the sky is blue, the earth is round and trade is the key to the United States creating 20 million new jobs and the lowest unemployment in four decades," said Representative David Dreier, a California Republican who is helping lead the push to win approval for the China deal in the House.
In an effort to counter the unions' message, the administration released a Commerce Department study showing that every state would benefit from increased trade with China. And Gen. Colin L. Powell, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs, endorsed the agreement, saying that among its other benefits it would be in the nation's security interests.
The administration's agreement with Beijing on the terms under which China would join the trade organization is likely to be approved by the Senate, but its fate in the House is unclear. Both parties are split to some degree, and the outcome hinges largely on the votes of about 75 undecided Democrats.
Among them is Representative Thomas C. Sawyer of Ohio, whose district encompasses the heavily unionized Akron area. Mr. Sawyer voted to approve the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 over union opposition.
This afternoon Mr. Sawyer got a visit from a union delegation that included Dave Prentice, a pipefitter at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber plant in Akron. "If this thing passes, it will hasten the deindustrialization of the United States," Mr. Prentice said after the meeting.
The union members said Mr. Sawyer had assured them that he would vote against the trade deal unless there was an accompanying bill calling for sanctions if China violated labor rights or other human rights. Some Democrats are trying to develop such a bill in the hope that it would allow them to vote for the trade agreement without giving up the leverage that the annual Congressional debate over trade privileges have provided to send a signal to Beijing.
The tangled politics of the issue were on full display today. Labor leaders were putting most of their pressure on Democrats, warning that failure to back the union position on the China deal could lead to a lack of support for the party from labor in the November elections.
The Teamsters union invited Patrick J. Buchanan, who is seeking the Reform Party's presidential nomination on an anti-trade platform, to speak at a separate rally the union held today -- a clear warning to Vice President Al Gore, who has said he would renegotiate aspects of the pact with China if he is elected president.
On the other hand, most of the unions regard helping Mr. Gore reach the White House and helping the Democrats regain control of the House as crucial to advancing the labor agenda, raising questions about how hard the unions are willing to push to block the trade deal.
"It's unfortunate that the president took this time to bring forward this trade agreement, because to some extent it does split us," said James P. Hoffa, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. "It should not have been done."
The police no longer offer estimates of the size of crowds at political events in Washington, and it was unclear whether the rally attracted the 15,000 people cited by the unions.
Labor leaders worked hard during the last month to round up workers to attend today's lobbying effort, but union members said it did not take much to persuade them to come.
For many, the impetus was their regret at not having fought harder in 1993 to stop approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which workers in the most affected industries consider to have been a disaster for American jobs.
During a break between visiting Congressional offices, Ralph Falls Jr., a Teamster who drives trucks for a bakery in Reading, Pa., said friends of his had lost their jobs when a bleach factory closed and moved its operations to Mexico.
"Nafta was supposed to help create more jobs, and it took away more jobs," he said. "China will do the same thing." Studies about the effect of Nafta have generally found that it created fewer jobs than its proponents predicted and killed fewer jobs than its critics have asserted. But backers of the trade deal with China acknowledge that they have to do a better job of selling its benefits.
"Supporters of trade with China and open markets have to become more sensitive to the anxieties caused by the pace of change, which unfortunately are disproportionately and inaccurately blamed on trade," said Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser.
"Never had the case been stronger for jobs and weaker for dislocation than an agreement in which we don't open our market one bit and China opens its market dramatically," Mr. Sperling said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Teamsters cheered during a rally at the Capitol at which union members opposed the Clinton administration's trade deal with China. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (98%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE BANK (83%); WORLD TRADE & MARKETING LTD (83%); WORLD TRADE BUN KEE LTD (83%); WORLD TRADE SYSTEMS PLC (83%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE IN LONDON LTD (83%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE MOSCOW JOINT STOCK CO (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); AFL-CIO (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); AFL-CIO (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); FAMILY (69%); QUALITY CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) DAVID DREIER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



328 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3045 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Finds an Old Foe Has a New Allure

SERIES: VIETNAM TODAY: A Different War

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
For months, a giant portrait of Vietnam's revolutionary leader, Ho Chi Minh, stared out across a central square at a billboard showing the American fashion model Cindy Crawford.
"The glorious victory of Communism will last 1,000 years," the portrait of Ho proclaimed. Miss Crawford's portrait, offering for sale an expensive watch to count the hours, smiled enticingly and said nothing. 
 The portrait of Miss Crawford is gone now as this raucous, bustling city -- still known to almost everybody as Saigon -- smartened itself up to celebrate the high point of Vietnamese Communism: What Hanoi calls the liberation of the nation, after 30 years of war, from foreign domination by the French and then by the Americans.
It was 25 years ago, on April 30, 1975, that the last fleeing helicopter lifted off the roof of the American Embassy and the first tanks of the North Vietnamese smashed through the gates of the presidential palace a few blocks away.
Some 58,000 American soldiers were dead, along with an estimated 3 million Vietnamese, military and civilian, both in the north and south. The ruinous decade-long conflict known to Americans as the Vietnam War, and to Vietnamese as the American War, was over.
But in its way, a quarter of a century later, the war is still being waged here, even though more than half the population of 78 million was born after 1975.
Ho Chi Minh and the alluring faces of Western capitalism still confront each other, emblems of Communist Vietnam's celebrated past and of a more complicated future it has not yet decided to embrace. In the capital, Hanoi, a cumbersome, suspicious leadership still hesitates between them, fearing to lose in the global marketplace what it won, at such cost, on the battlefield.
"Now the war is all over and they have the liberty and independence and freedom they made such sacrifices for," said the United States ambassador, Pete Peterson, himself a war veteran who spent six years in a North Vietnamese prison.
"But the world has redefined those things," Mr. Peterson said. "What is independence in the global economy? Now a country is more appropriately graded on interdependence. And liberty from what? Happiness today is defined by the individual. They couldn't have assumed in their wildest imagination a situation like this."
The old fighters whose ingenuity and perseverance defeated a superpower seem to have been overwhelmed by the challenges that confronted them in building a new, independent nation.
By fits and starts over the years they have let in some fresh air, opening the economy somewhat and cautiously allowing more religious and social freedoms. But now they seem to have paused at a crossroads, divided and stuck, gripping the reins of political and economic control for dear life, almost frenetic in their stasis.
"Fighting a war was easy," said a retired North Vietnamese Army lieutenant who now works for a private company in Hanoi and wholeheartedly supports his government. "I tell you, to fight is easier than to manage. You cannot go too quickly. If you go too quickly something can go wrong. Every official in a high position says, in a very big voice, we have to do something. But when he reaches that point he realizes how difficult it is."
Following their victory, the Communist leadership, struggling to unify a nation that had torn itself apart in war, tried disastrously to implement a socialist economy throughout the country even as the defeated superpower worked actively to lock them out of the world economy.
Carlyle S. Thayer, an Australian expert on Vietnam, calls that first decade "winning the war and losing the peace." Then in 1986 Vietnam embarked on an experiment in openness called "doi moi" -- fundamental renovation -- and the world rushed in briefly, in the early 1990's, with more investment and aid than the country could manage or absorb. And through the late 1970's and the 1980's, Vietnam was also engaged in more warfare, as it occupied Cambodia and fought off a punitive attack by China.
Before that second decade had run out, Vietnam had lost its chief patron and aid donor with the collapse of the Soviet Union; foreign investors had begun to flee in frustration over the bureaucracy, corruption and slippery legal system that crippled their work; and conservative forces had raised a hue and cry about the corrupting influence of "social evils" imported from the free-thinking West.
In a speech in February, Vietnam's top Communist leader, Le Kha Phieu, warned once again that the battle with the West is still on, though the arena is now the economy. "They continue to seek ways to completely wipe out the remaining socialist countries and attack the movements for independence, democracy and social progress," he said. "We should never relax our vigilance for a minute."
Under this watchful leadership, Vietnam today seems like a nation of bees buzzing inside a bottle, thrumming with repressed energy. Many of the same difficulties that drove away foreign investors -- along with stifling limits on local business practices -- are crippling the efforts of Vietnamese entrepreneurs. And an insistence on government control of major industries serves as a sea anchor slowing economic growth.
"If the government ever got out of the way here, this country would put the rest of Asia to shame," said a Western economic analyst who represents an international aid agency in Hanoi. "Go to the villages. Vietnam defines industriousness."
What he was talking about would amount to a revolutionary step for the Communist leadership, a redefinition of their victory 25 years ago. While they wait and consider, said Ambassador Peterson, "there is probably no developing country with such a vast void between potential and realization."
 
View of America: Fascination and Distrust
The next difficult step for Vietnam in its reintegration into the larger world is the signing of a trade agreement with the United States that embodies the free-market prescriptions of the International Monetary Fund. It would open Vietnamese markets to perhaps $800 million a year in new investment and send a signal that Hanoi is ready once again to do business with the world.
The pact was initialed by trade negotiators last November but then came to a dead stop as Hanoi began having second thoughts. Its economic prescriptions challenged too many vested interests and raised too many fears of a loss of central government control. And it roused a deeply held distrust of the United States.
"They have a kind of vague fear that there is something between the lines," said a Vietnamese economics professor, speaking of his government on condition of anonymity. "It's still a wartime generation that is governing this country and they do not completely trust American intentions."
Americans are received with real warmth today, both in the north and in the south. But that warmth does not for the most part extend to their government.
Although Hanoi now allows as many as 1,300 students to study in the United States each year, it remains leery of their views when they return, the economist said. "They say, 'You are coming back from America so perhaps you have been duped.' "
After so many years of war, and so many years of postwar hostility, said Tom Vallely, director of the Vietnam program at the Harvard Institute of International Development, "I think it's difficult and maybe impossible for them to believe you can have a win-win situation with the United States."
For nearly two decades after the war ended, the United States maintained a trade embargo, arguing that Hanoi was slow to provide information on missing American soldiers and that Vietnam was acting aggressively by occupying its neighbor, Cambodia, from 1979 to 1989.
President Clinton lifted the embargo in 1994 and established full diplomatic relations the following year. American investors, many motivated by postwar sentiment, flooded in with what Ambassador Peterson called "visions of grandeur" that ended in disappointment.
Today, trade between the two countries remains small, with Vietnam shipping $650 million worth of goods to the United States each year and American companies selling $350 million in exports to Vietnam.
There are other reminders of the costs of the American war: continuing generations of babies born deformed because of the effects of the chemical defoliant Agent Orange and continuing generations of farmers and children who are killed and maimed by unexploded bombs and mines.
These explosives, ranging from mortar rounds to antipersonnel mines to buried 500-pound bombs, shift and rise to the surface with the annual floods that torment the central provinces, frustrating efforts to clear new farmland.
But when the United States offered a $750,000 program of mine-clearing and training several years ago, the Vietnamese refused because it would once again cause uniformed American soldiers to be based on Vietnamese soil.
Despite these legacies of war, Vietnamese appear fascinated by the United States. It sometimes seems the entire nation is studying English, the language of commerce.
And after two decades of postwar refugees, nearly a million of whom are now in the United States, there is now a waiting list of thousands who have applied to immigrate to join their relatives.
And in a curious twist, the dollars sent home by these refugees, now well over $1 billion a year, are one of the country's largest sources of foreign currency -- a much larger contribution than if these same people had remained in Vietnam.
Even in a museum here that still displays the "war crimes" of Americans, a woman selling souvenirs made out of bullets took an American visitor aside recently to ask how she could emigrate to the United States.
Throughout its history, Vietnam has been the victim of its geography, fighting off periodic invasions by its northern neighbor, China -- most recently in 1979. During the American war, the Communists of North Vietnam found themselves leaning on China, as well as on the Soviet Union, for support. Now, Hanoi may see the United States as its necessary buffer against its big and powerful northern neighbor.
"America now is an alternative to China," the Vietnamese economist said. "To counter the Chinese threat we must lean towards the West -- not because we like the West, but because the Chinese Army is 2.5 million strong."
Recently, a young Foreign Ministry official enumerated Vietnam's official grievances against the United States, then went on to describe with relish a recent trip he had taken through several American states.
He recalled that in the 1940's, Ho Chi Minh had made overtures of friendship to the United States that were rebuffed. "That is the tragedy and the drama of Vietnam," he said. "It never wanted to be enemies with America."
 
Political Control Vs. a Free Market
Apart from China, only Vietnam is attempting the acrobatic feat of creating a capitalist economy under the control of a Communist government. Clearly, though, it is suffering from a greater fear of heights.
Though Vietnamese leaders insist that they follow no outside models, they thrive on cautionary tales: the Soviet Union that collapsed when it loosened its government's grip, Indonesia that dissolved into disorder with the ouster of a strong leader, Asian economies that imploded because of their dependence on the global marketplace.
Dennis de Tray, the International Monetary Fund's senior resident representative in Vietnam, says the country has its own successful model to emulate in opening its economy -- the decision a decade ago to end collectivized agriculture.
"They went from near starvation to the world's second largest rice exporter overnight," Mr. de Tray said. "And they did it with one simple change, by letting farmers keep their own rice. If you lived through this, why not just go ahead, guys, go for it. This is as good an example as I've seen in the world."
Indeed, he said, despite Vietnam's current stagnation, it has covered a good deal of ground in the last decade. "Ten years ago this was a country that did not even have the vocabulary of trade, the vocabulary of a legal system, the vocabulary of economics, the vocabulary of a central banking system," he said. "So why are they hesitating now to take the next step?"
With a per capita income of just $360 a year, Vietnam is one of the poorest nations in the world, with nearly 80 percent of its population in the countryside, most of them on the edge of poverty. The government, whatever its political agenda, is clearly committed to raising living standards, according to political analysts.
But with agriculture making up only a small part of national income, the next liberalizations must come in a growth of private enterprise in other sectors, foreign experts agree. At the moment, medium or large-scale private companies make up less than 2 percent of the economy.
"Vietnam needs to open up the domestic private sector to get things going beyond photocopy stands and noodle shops, to get people investing in small manufacturing businesses instead of just providing a service to their neighbors," said Robert Templer, the author of "Shadows and Wind: A View of Modern Vietnam" (Little, Brown 1998).
And, said one Vietnamese who owns a small business in Hanoi, local bureaucrats who enforce scores of often ambiguous regulations must undergo a fundamental shift in attitude. "It has to be 'do whatever is not forbidden,' " he said, "rather than 'do only what is permitted.' "
But under Vietnam's political system, none of this is so simple.
First, both Vietnamese and foreign experts say, the government is hobbled by a decision-making process that demands consensus -- some say unanimity -- in a leadership with increasingly diverse economic interests. A veto, it seems, can come from just about anywhere.
Second, the government is not yet convinced it can carry out its acrobatic balancing act, fearing that an open marketplace will lead to political pluralism.
Thus, every time the economy opens up a bit, it seems, restrictions on free speech and political activity grow tighter and political rhetoric grows harsher.
At this moment of uncertainty, for example, almost no nonofficial Vietnamese would allow their names to be printed in this article. As one businessman in Ho Chi Minh City put it, with a touch of bitterness, "We have freedom here, but it is under control."
 
The American War Is Ancient History
In a cozy refuge from the rain, six teenage boys sat in a tiny arcade in Hanoi jittering and shouting in their seats as they played war games on a row of computers.
To the sounds of synthetic gunfire, the computers charted their progress with exclamation points:
"Long was blown away by Ken's super rocket!"
"Nam caught Ken's hand grenade!"
Exactly 25 years ago, boys their age were firing real rockets and throwing hand grenades in North Vietnam's final assault on the South.
What did these postwar youngsters think of that? The question was greeted with blank stares.
"Twenty-five years ago?" said one boy. "Is that right?"
For the large majority of Vietnamese who were born after the war, or who were only children when it ended, much of it apparently seems, literally, ancient history.
"It is just one of a whole series of events that they are supposed to revere in school, but for many of them it doesn't have any more specific meaning than the Vietnamese victories over the Chinese in the 10th century," said Peter Zinoman, a professor of Vietnamese history at the University of California at Berkeley.
"Another reason for their disengagement," he added, "is this whole new culture of consumption that does sort of preoccupy them."
Vietnam has seen little of the kind of political debate, national soul-searching or artistic reconsideration of the war that has helped the United States to try to draw lessons since the fall of Saigon.
In part this is because an unqualifiedly heroic version of the war is essential to the legitimacy of the Communist Party. There is no disputing official propaganda.
A result is that art, journalism and policy discussions remain constricted by political boundaries as well as by a genuine respect for the elderly heroes of the Communist victory. "Making compromises is something we have to do now," said a Hanoi-based official in his late 30's. "We cannot make our fathers feel so unhappy. They are our fathers. What can we do? We must accommodate their thinking."
For younger Vietnamese eager to get onto the world's fast track, he conceded, this delicacy can be maddening.
"As my father often says, 'You didn't live under the French. You didn't see how people were starving.'
"I say, 'Other countries in the region are moving ahead now and they are prosperous.'
"He says, 'They're in crisis.'
"I say, 'Now they are emerging and they are moving faster than we are. We should have taken advantage but we didn't take advantage.' "
The young official seemed ready to burst with frustration.
"What Vietnam is doing now is toddling, like a child," he said. "So I say to them, 'Why not try the adult method: firm, but faster!' "
As some Vietnamese like to say, 25 years is a long time in a human life but a short time in history. Most people here agree that change will come in its own good time.
But without America's openness in discussing and digesting its history, the future, when it does arrive, may indeed be the alien visitor the country's leaders fear.
There are already signs that they may be losing control of their own history. Tu Anh, for example, a company project manager who was born in 1975, talked in surprising detail the other day about the long-ago war.
But her information did not come from textbooks or her elders. The source she cited was a pirated copy of the movie "Forrest Gump."
 
Vietnam Today
 April 30 marks 25 years since the fall of Saigon, the end of a war that cost 3 million Vietnamese and 58,000 American lives. This is the first of several articles on Vietnamand the war's legacy, there and in the United States.
 
On the Web
 
A special section is available on The New York Times.Learning.Network:
www.nytimes.com/learning/saigon
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rush hour in Hanoi, where Communists meet capitalism head on. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); The soldiers who won the war 25 years ago now seem overwhelmed by the challenges of building an independent nation. A parade in Nha Trang marked the end of the war. (Richard Vogel/Associated Press); Vietnam's leaders appear caught between the Communism of the celebrated past and the draw of capitalism. In Hanoi, the capital, vendors on a bustling downtown street. (Christopher Brown/Saba)(pg. A12)
 
Chart: "'Vietnam in Profile"
Here is a demographic and economic snapshot of Vietnam today, a quarter of a century after the fall of Saigon to Communist rule.
 
People under age 25
Vietnam: 53%
United State: 35%
 
Where people live
Rural: 77%
Urban: 23%
 
Percentage of urban households with:
COLOR TELEVISION: 90%
TELEPHONE: 36%
COMPUTER: 6%
 
Graph shows the leading sources of foreign direct investment (1999) and the Gross Domestic Product (1999).
(Sources: Vietnam General Statistical Office; U.S. Census Bureau; ACNielsen Vietnam Omnibus; Vietnamese Ministry of Planning and Investment)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (93%); FRANCE (71%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (93%); FRANCE (71%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VIETNAM WAR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ARMED FORCES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (62%); POLITICS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; HO CHI MINH (1890-1969) CINDY CRAWFORD (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



329 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Challenges Bush Credibility on Policy Speeches

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
In his harshest and most comprehensive critique of his Republican rival to date, Vice President Al Gore today questioned Gov. George W. Bush's self-anointment as a "reformer with results" and said that if Texas was Mr. Bush's model for what he would do as president, he had no credibility.
"He keeps saying he's a reformer with results," Mr. Gore said in a speech to the American Society of Newspaper Editors. "Where are the results? They're not in Texas." 
 Referring to a series of policy speeches in which Mr. Bush had ventured into traditionally Democratic issues, Mr. Gore said that Mr. Bush was pretending to care about issues like health care, education and the environment but that his record in Texas showed he had done little on these fronts.
"How can we believe what he says he would do nationally when we see what he actually has done as governor?" Mr. Gore asked. "This is about something more than public policy. It is about credibility."
The speech seemed to betray some concerns in the Gore campaign about Mr. Bush's potential to make inroads with traditional Democratic voters as well as suburban swing voters with his proposals on health care, education and the environment.
And they come on the heels of a couple of recent polls that show Mr. Bush with leads of 5 to 9 points over Mr. Gore, a point that Mr. Bush's aides made in responding to the criticism.
Mr. Bush's recent policy initiatives have prompted the Gore campaign to intensify its critique of Mr. Bush's record, painting Texas as a near-Third World backwater where children are poorly educated and go without health insurance, and where chemical polluters control environmental regulations.
Mr. Gore also cast himself as the one who would "take on the special interests" as he renewed his call for overhauling the campaign finance system. Describing his plan for an endowment financed by corporate and individual donors and distributed to Congressional candidates without regard to party, Mr. Gore said: "The views of the donors will have absolutely no influence on the views of the recipient. In this way, we can break the connection between the giving of money and the gaining of influence in these election contests."
But in discussions later in the day with contributors, Mr. Gore was quick to offer reassurance that at least until the system is changed, their money will not go unwanted -- or unspent.
"We will fight fire with fire," the vice president promised 25 people, each of whom gave $25,000, at a Democratic National Committee luncheon at the home of Tom Downey, the former Congressman from New York and now a lobbyist who is one of Mr. Gore's closest friends.
The luncheon was Mr. Gore's second of the day. At the first, held at the Westin Fairfax Hotel, the same Embassy Row building where Mr. Gore grew up as the son of a senator, Mr. Gore was the drawing card for 30 people whom the Democratic National Committee hopes will contribute to a May 24 gala for the party.
The hotel luncheon was put together by Terry McAuliffe, President Clinton's top fund-raiser, who is organizing the gala as a tribute to the president, although the vice president will be the chief beneficiary. Mr. McAuliffe said he hoped the gala would raise $7 million, about half of what the Republican National Committee has said it would raise at its own gala on April 26.
In a pitch to his well-heeled listeners, Mr. McAuliffe vowed: "The Republicans are going to have a beautiful, black-tie event with candelabras and wine and champagne. Ours is going to be a barbecue from Tennessee and Arkansas."
In any case, Mr. Gore continued his theme from the morning speech, saying that Mr. Bush's call for a huge tax cut "raises the question, 'Does he have the experience to be president?' "
Mr. Gore renewed his call for campaign finance reform and his pledge that Democrats would not use their money for television commercials -- unless the Republicans did first. "And if they do," he said, "we're going to be ready because there are hundreds of millions of Americans who are hard-working, who depend upon champions that will fight for their health care and their education, their environment and their quality of life in their communities."
His listeners included some of his union backers, including Morty Bahr from the Communications Workers of America and Vince Pavini of the Sheetmetal Workers Union. Invited but unable to attend was John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., who was busy staging a labor demonstration against the administration's trade policy.
By nightfall, Mr. Gore was back to appealing to independents, dining at his home here with Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota.
But Mr. Gore's central message of the day -- and an emerging theme of his campaign -- was that Mr. Bush was inexperienced and his proposed tax cut would destroy the current prosperity. He played with this idea in his speech to the newspaper editors, linking the governor with his father's presidential administration in unflattering ways and suggesting that the governor was making up his policies as he went along.
"Incredibly, implausibly, he is proposing to replace the economic policies that have succeeded beyond anyone's boldest predictions with the very policies that failed miserably eight years ago," Mr. Gore said. "Call it trickle-down, call it 'voodoo economics,' call it supply side. Names don't matter because we tried it and it failed miserably." It was Mr. Bush's father who in 1980 coined the phrase "voodoo economics" to denigrate the tax cuts advocated by Ronald Reagan.
The vice president added: "Instead of using this historic moment, Governor Bush proposes that we waste it. Instead of planning for our future, Gov. George W. Bush wants to wing it."
Mr. Gore, himself a former journalist, advised his audience to scrutinize Mr. Bush's record.
"Believe it or not, I'm grateful for the role that you're going to play," said Mr. Gore, who has been the subject of some negative news coverage himself. "I won't always like what I read, and I don't expect you to put yourselves in my shoes. Your job is to hold the candidates to a tough standard."
 
In His Own Words: AL GORE
 
Remarks yesterday in Washington to the American Society of Newspaper Editors:
"Yesterday, finally, Governor Bush said he wants to do something about health care. I welcome him to the debate. And I hope that he will start by trying to enroll some of the hundreds of thousands of underinsured children and families in his own state of Texas who have no health insurance who are legally eligible for it but do not have it because of the political malpractice of the Bush administration in Texas.
How can we believe what he says he would do nationally when we see what he actually has done as governor?
This is about something more than public policy. It is about credibility. In the weeks since the Republican primaries have ended, Governor Bush has talked about his deep commitment to the environment, to health care and education. Yet the centerpiece of his campaign, in fact the central fallacy of his campaign, is a budget-busting $2.1 trillion-tax scheme that lavishes the most by far on the well-off and the well-connected."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a biting address to the American Society of Newspaper Editors, Vice President Al Gore challenged the credibility of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas yesterday. Mr. Gore leaned back as he was being introduced. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENVIRONMENT VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



330 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
In Only a Few Weeks, Nasdaq Falls 25.3% From Its Pinnacle

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The biggest bull market in Nasdaq history has given way to the fastest bear market ever, as technology stocks have gone from stars to stumblers.
With yesterday's drop of 286.27 points, or 7.06 percent, to 3,769.63, the Nasdaq composite index is down 25.3 percent from the high it set just over a month ago, on March 10. It was the sixth-worst day in Nasdaq history on a percentage basis, and left the index at its lowest level since early January. 
 A 20 percent fall from a peak is customarily viewed as the indication of a bear market, although that definition may be less relevant now, given the unprecedented volatility of the market. Stocks have been rising or falling rapidly within minutes, even without any particular news regarding the company.
And there has been some bad news from what had been the hottest industries. "We are starting to get information on technology fundamentals that are coming in well below expectations," said Douglas J. Cliggott, a stock market strategist for J. P. Morgan, pointing to a slowdown in the rate of growth in factory orders for communications equipment and to the warning by Motorola that profits from cellular telephone handsets will be disappointing.
"Here you have a product that is becoming ubiquitous," Mr. Cliggott said, "and yet a leading company is having trouble." Motorola, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, is down $34, to $116, in the two days since it issued its profit warning.
Yesterday, Microsoft fell $4.50 to $79.375, trading at its lowest level since June, after Richard Sherlund, an analyst for Goldman, Sachs, warned that a slowdown in personal computer sales was affecting Microsoft's revenue.
Over the last several months, the Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates to ward off inflation, and Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has cited the spending of stock market wealth as one reason for economic growth so rapid that it has kindled inflation fears.
But the recent drop in the market, if it continues, could help slow the economy. "The more work the stock market does to cool off the economy," said Joshua N. Feinman, an economist with Deutsche Asset Management, "then presumably the less work higher interest rates have to do."
Although technology stocks have been very weak lately, the fall in the Nasdaq composite index has not come at a time when all stocks are being pummeled.
Since the Nasdaq reached its peak on March 10, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 12 percent, although the Dow, after being up for most of yesterday, also fell in late trading. Some parts of Nasdaq, most notably the Nasdaq bank index, have even done well.
Instead, this has been a case of the last quickly becoming first, and vice versa. Bed Bath and Beyond, a retailer, was one of the worst-performing stocks in the Nasdaq 100, an index of large companies, from the end of 1999 through the Nasdaq peak on March 10. It has been the best performer since then. Network Appliance, a maker of computer servers, was one of the best performers early in the year, but has lost about half its value since then.
The pain of this bear market, if that is what it should be called, is also less pronounced because Nasdaq had run up so far, so fast, before it began to slide. As a result, only those who got in very recently have substantial cash losses.
There may, however, be many such people. "Judging by the margin-debt numbers, I suspect there are a lot of people who bought in recent months, and are starting to really hurt," said Edward Nicoski, a market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. Those figures, on the amount of money borrowed to buy stocks, began to climb rapidly last October.
Earlier this year, the Nasdaq composite index was twice as high as it had been a year before -- a feat the market had never before accomplished. Even with the latest decline, the Nasdaq is still trading above where it was as recently as Jan. 6, little more than three months ago. By contrast, in most previous bear markets, a 20 percent decline cut prices to their lowest level in at least a year.
In the nearly three decades since the Nasdaq market was established in 1971, there have been just nine bear markets. The most recent one, a 29.6 percent drop in 1998, had set the record for the fastest fall as the index took just 30 trading days to drop 20 percent. The latest fall took 23 trading days.
Nasdaq's 1998 decline was part of a worldwide stock market slide, and was soon reversed as the Federal Reserve, fearing global recession, began to cut rates. The Nasdaq composite made up all its losses, and was setting new highs again by the end of November, only three three months after it fell 20 percent.
Just what has brought on the latest sharp fall is far from clear. The Fed has been raising short-term interest rates, but it began that process last June and was doing so as the Nasdaq doubled from last summer through the peak last month, while new Internet stocks doubled and tripled in their first day of trading. Many of those once-hot issues have since fallen sharply. Akamai Technologies, an Internet company, saw its shares more than quintuple, to levels above $145, on the day it went public in October and peak earlier this year at $345. But yesterday, Akamai fell $15 to $92.75.
Investors who were pouring record amounts of money into technology-heavy mutual funds earlier this year are no longer quite so eager, and in the latest week's report actually withdrew some money, according to AMG Data Services. Many investors who bought because prices were rising may have now fled.
One factor that may have contributed to the current decline is the impending deadline for paying 1999 income taxes. Traders who made a lot on Nasdaq stocks last year may owe large amounts, with most of their gains taxable at higher ordinary-income rates because the 20 percent capital-gains rate is available to taxpayers in high brackets only for stocks held more than a year.
Market analysts looking for a silver lining noted that the Nasdaq composite has still not fallen as far as it did during the chaotic action of April 4, little more than a week ago. By early afternoon that day, the index had recorded a daily decline of 13.6 percent, to 3,649, before rallying sharply to close at 4,149 -- a loss for the session of less than 2 percent.
"It looks like a test of the climactic low," said Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch.
Whether the Nasdaq market rallies from here, though, may depend on the willingness of investors to bet more money on the so-called "new economy" stocks that are expected to prosper in the Internet economy and that were bid up rapidly in 1999 and early this year.
Even with the recent decline, the Nasdaq composite is up 45 percent from its level exactly one year ago, while the Dow Jones industrial average is up less than 8 percent.
Those numbers reflect just how unusual the market has been during the last year, when large, established companies saw their stocks gain little or, in many cases, decline, while younger companies with little in the way of operating history and no profits caught the attention of investors and soared.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nasdaq multimedia site near the end of a down day. (Associated Press)
 
Chart/Graphs: "The Bears Growl"
Since the Nasdaq composite index peaked on March 10, it has fallen 25.3 percent. It is the ninth time since the index was created in 1971 that it has fallen at least 20 percent from a peak -- the usual definition of a bear market. Of those nine declines, this one was the fastest. Here is the Nasdaq index plotted two ways, on a weekly basis. The smaller chart is done on a logarithmic scale, which makes comparable percentage changes appear similar. Shaded areas indicate bear markets.
 
Charts shows Nasdaq's Bear Markets, Nasdaq's 100's best and worst performers since March 10 and the biggest U.S. stocks in Nasdaq, by market value.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Dow Jones industrial average since Jan.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1)
 
Table: "Nasdaq's Worst Days"

	 	 	DATE	CLOSE	DECLINE	Oct. 19, 1987	360.21	-11.35	Oct. 20, 1987	327.79	-9.00	Oct. 26, 1987	298.90	-9.00	Aug. 31, 1998	1,499.25	-8.56	Apr. 3, 2000	4,223.68	-7.64	Yesterday	3,769.64	-7.06	Oct. 27, 1997	1,535.09	-7.02	March 27, 1980	124.09	-6.15	April 19, 1999	2,345.85	-5.56	Jan. 4, 2000	3,901.69	-5.55	
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (50%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INFLATION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); RETAILERS (63%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



331 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: PERU'S PRESIDENT, SHORT OF MAJORITY, NOW FACES RUNOFF

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 12

 BODY:
President Alberto K. Fujimori today fell just short of reaching a first-round victory in his re-election bid, meaning that a runoff will be held by early June, a surprise development that elated the opposition.
The government announcement set off euphoria in the streets, where news of a Fujimori victory was awaited and would probably have resulted in violence. 
 Such has been the criticism of the election's fairness at home and abroad that if Mr. Fujimori had won a third five-year term, his administration would most likely have become an international pariah and the source of constant instability.
With 97.7 percent of the vote counted, the authorities said tonight, Mr. Fujimori's total had risen a bit, to 49.8 percent, tantalizingly close to the needed 50 percent. But election officials said the complete result could not give the president outright victory because there were too few uncounted votes outstanding.
"The democratic forces have triumphed," Alejandro Toledo, Mr. Fujimori's leading opponent, shouted from a balcony overlooking tens of thousands of supporters in San Martin Plaza in downtown Lima. Waving a flag and flashing a victory sign, he added: "Our people have won despite all the games and tricks. On to the second round."
Election officials said that in the latest count, Mr. Toledo had won 40.3 percent of the vote. He will face Mr. Fujimori in the runoff.
The developments tonight stand to give Mr. Toledo a strong start in the second round. Little known only six weeks ago, he now can ride a wave of publicity, and he is strongly identified with democratic currents that are beginning to swirl powerfully through the country. His strong Indian features and rags-to-success personal story have made him appealing to many Peruvians, and the results of Sunday's election should add to his mystique as a man who surmounts enormous odds.
But Mr. Fujimori, 61, has come back against long odds, too, and he will have many advantages that come from controlling the government purse strings and an intelligence service with potent political tools.
Eduardo Stein, head of the Organization of American States' election observation team here, expressed relief at the government announcement tonight, saying, "It was the most sensible option open for the stability of Peru."
Mr. Stein said that "the O.A.S. could not condone what was going on" and was facing an eventuality in which "democratic order is broken."
The United States welcomed the result. "This is a good first step toward restoring credibility in the electoral process, and these results correspond" to early findings of election trends, James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said in Washington.
He added, "We urge the government of Peru and its electoral authorities to take every possible step to ensure that the next round of voting fully meets the standards of openness, transparency and fairness."
Mr. Stein's unremitting public criticism of unexplained delays in the handling and computing of vote tallies proved to be a decisive element in breaking Mr. Fujimori's international support. And the Organization of American States proved itself able to ease a domestic crisis among its member states, something it has rarely been able to do.
As the results trickled in this week, and election monitors raised many charges of improprieties, diplomats at the Organization of American States already had begun discussing economic and political sanctions to reverse the vote, and if necessary, to strip the government of its recognition.
Mr. Toledo, a 54-year-old business school professor, said this week that he would accept nothing short of a runoff, and promised to lead nonstop demonstrations culminating in a national strike on Friday if Mr. Fujimori were declared the winner.
But now there will be a runoff. Election officials said the uncounted votes could add five-hundredths of 1 percent at most to Mr. Fujimori's total, leaving him still shy of 50 percent.
Mr. Fujimori had no immediate comment tonight. Mr. Toledo boasted that demonstrations over the last three days had stopped Mr. Fujimori from stealing the election, and that the mostly peaceful marches across Peru had moved the international community to back democracy in Peru.
Jose Portillo, the head of the national election commission, dismissed that contention, telling the news media that reports of computer and vote fraud were proved false by the results.
"You can think what you like," Mr. Portillo said. "It was impossible to falsify or adulterate the results."
But in a news conference tonight, Mr. Toledo contended that he had obtained information from an insider in the election process that as of 7:30 p.m. on Sunday night, vote tallies gathered by the government showed him with 56.8 percent of the vote. He said the official count was falsified, and demanded that all senior election officials be replaced.
"The international community has played a critical role in defense of democracy," he said. "I expect them to continue monitoring the election."
Mr. Toledo repeated his demand tonight that all the networks open their airwaves to the opposition and that dirty campaign tricks be halted.
Such tactics, like microphones that went dead at opposition rallies, egg-throwing mobs meeting opposition candidates, and smear campaigns orchestrated in the press, came under intense criticism by the Organization of American States, the Atlanta-based Carter Center and several international teams of election observers.
"Now we will show the world that Peru can hold a clean process," Mr. Toledo told the throng in downtown Lima tonight, one of many that gathered expectantly in cities across Peru. "I want to be clear that I will be respectful of the institutions of democracy."
Throughout the day, international pressure mounted on President Fujimori to hold a second round of voting rather than declare an outright majority.
Thomas R. Pickering, the United States under secretary of state for political affairs, called Prime Minister Alberto Bustamante to say that United States relations with Peru would be seriously strained if a second round were not held.
"The conversations have been stark but decent," a State Department official said. "There is no doubt in our minds they know the way we feel."
The ambassadors of France, Britain and several other European nations also said there was enough evidence of fraud -- including pre-marked ballots and a series of unexplained counting delays -- to require a second round to ensure the credibility of the next government.
But senior Latin American diplomats here expressed concern about the tough language by Mr. Pickering and other American officials. Several cabinet officials complained openly of blatant interference in Peru's internal affairs.
The pressure, however, seemed to be effective.
The Lima government appeared to be testing a nationalist response to the international pressures when Mr. Fujimori's running mate, Francisco Tudela, scolded foreign governments and news media on Tuesday night for conspiring to ignore the will of the Peruvian people and push an election result to their liking.
"We've never had this kind of international intervention in our political process before," Mr. Tudela said in a television interview, which was repeatedly broadcast on a pro-government channel today. "We are not a banana republic. We Peruvians need to defend our national sovereignty."
Foreign diplomats said the government had at least an unofficial count of all votes by early this morning, when it completed tallying ballots from Peruvians living abroad and from distant jungles and Andean Indian villages. They said Mr. Fujimori's most senior aides spent the day reviewing the results.
The Japanese ambassador, Yoshizo Konishi, had a long meeting today with Mr. Stein, who has been criticizing what he sees as blatant irregularities in the vote count.
Mr. Fujimori, whose parents were Japanese immigrants and who speaks Japanese, has looked to Japan for economic and political aid in virtually all of the crises he has faced. During a 1993 coup attempt, he sought refuge in the Japanese Embassy, and he frequently travels to Tokyo seeking economic aid.
Facing off in this political crisis were two men with very different leadership styles. While Mr. Toledo appeared to be an improviser, Mr. Fujimori took his time, kept only his closest advisers informed of his thinking, and apparently made his decisions at the last possible moment.
Since the election Sunday, Mr. Fujimori had said little, while allowing the opposition to take to the streets in Lima and other cities.
He showed the same patient style in his handling of his last big crisis, when terrorists seized the Japanese ambassador's residence and hundreds of hostages in 1997. For days, even as Tupac Amaru rebels threatened to kill hostages and held his mother and half brother, Mr. Fujimori said nothing. He consistently resisted international pressure to negotiate seriously with the rebels and to allow them to find asylum in Cuba.
Finally, he ordered the storming of the building, wiping out all 14 rebels and saving all but 1 hostage, who died of a heart attack during the rescue.
For his part, Mr. Toledo appeared to be an unpredictable leader whose style and rhetoric could change from hour to hour. There were times, usually during the day, when he donned double-breasted suits and looked like the business school professor and former World Bank official that he is. It was then that he spoke like a statesman, saying he did not intend to "put fuel on the fire," warning against violence and declaring himself a follower of the tactics of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and Mohandas Gandhi.
Before tonight, when speaking before large crowds -- and the crowds grew with each day this week -- his oratory became far more heated. "There is no tank or missile," he told a throng Tuesday night, "that can silence the voice of the people."
Mr. Toledo was a midlevel economic adviser in the Peruvian government in the early 1980's, but he has never held a high leadership position. As the son of a bricklayer and a mother who sold fish in a street market, and as a former shoeshine boy himself, he can be fiery in support of the disadvantaged.
After winning a scholarship with the help of some Peace Corps volunteers, he studied at the University of San Francisco in the 1960's, when social revolution was brewing. He speaks of those days of protest with nostalgia.
But tonight, in victory, he remained cool and measured in his reactions, and uncharacteristically, he put back on his suit at his triumphant news conference, and promised he would reinstitute democracy and an independent justice system in Peru.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The opposition leader, Alejandro Toledo, with his wife, Eliane Karp, and his daughter Shantall. "Our people have won," Mr. Toledo said. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Supporters of Alejandro Toledo jubilantly carried Peru's flag last night after election results showed no win for President Alberto K. Fujimori. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LIMA, PERU (65%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; LIMA (PERU); PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIMA, PERU (65%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); POLITICS (79%); RIOTS (77%); ETHICS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES); TOLEDO, ALEJANDRO ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (95%); ALEJANDRO TOLEDO (81%); EDUARDO STEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



332 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
Fujimori Lacks Majority; Runoff Expected by June
President Alberto K. Fujimori fell just short of an absolute majority in his bid for a third term, setting the stage for a runoff with Alejandro Toledo by early June and easing prospects for violent protests. A1 

A Promise on Aid to Colombia
President Andres Pastrana won assurances from the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, that Congress would approve $1.6 billion to help Colombia fight the drug war, but not before late spring or early summer. A16
 
Castro Assails Capitalism
President Fidel Castro of Cuba told leaders of the world's poorer nations meeting in Havana that the capitalist system had caused suffering comparable to that of the Holocaust. A17
 
I.M.F. Report on Economy
The financial problems that hurt emerging markets around the world have dissipated, allowing the world economy to regain its health, the International Monetary Fund said. A9
 
Labor Fights China Trade Bill
Thousands of union members rallied on Capitol Hill and swept through the halls of Congress in an effort to block a trade agreement with China. A8
 
China Warns Hong Kong
A Chinese official warned the Hong Kong news media not to promote separatist ideas in coverage of Taiwan's political transition. A13
 
Chinese Leader in Israel
President Jiang Zemin arrived in Israel for talks with Prime Minister Ehud Barak, but the visit was overshadowed by United States objections to an Israeli arms deal with China. A3
 
Israel to Free 8 Lebanese
The Supreme Court, saying the government was not justified in holding Lebanese as bargaining chips for missing soldiers, ordered the release of 8 of 15 Lebanese jailed without charges for more than a decade. A3
 
G.I.'s Detained in Macedonia
The police in Skopje said a group of drunken and disorderly American soldiers had been detained. A6
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A20-29
 
Reno's Bid For Elian Fails to Resolve His Status
After a dramatic day of talks between federal officials and Miami relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez, United States Attorney General Janet Reno told a relative of the boy that he had until 2 p.m. to surrender the child at an airport outside Miami. The relative, the boy's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, angrily denounced Ms. Reno, and said he would not turn the boy over. A1
 
Gore Rules Out a Pardon
President Clinton will neither request nor accept a pardon from his successor for any possible crimes committed in office, Vice President Al Gore said. A24
 
Compensating Arms Workers
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson announced a plan to compensate 3,000 nuclear weapons workers for sickness or death caused by exposure to radiation or chemicals. A22
 
Confederate Flag Vote
The South Carolina Senate voted to remove a Confederate flag from the Capitol dome and place a smaller version in a less-prominent site on the grounds. The House passed a bill, similar to a Senate measure, to enact a holiday honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. A1
 
Ruling on Race and Searches
A federal appeals court in California, noting demographic changes in the region, ruled that the Border Patrol should not have considered race when it stopped three Mexicans carrying bags of marijuana, a gun and ammunition near the border. A20
 
Sheppard's Son Fails With Jury
A jury in Cleveland rejected an attempt by the son of Dr. Sam Sheppard to prove that the doctor had been wrongfully imprisoned for his wife's murder. Dr. Sheppard, who died in 1970, was convicted in his first trial but acquitted in a second. A20
 
OBITUARIES C21
 
James Vorenberg
A professor and former dean of Harvard Law School, who played pivotal roles in watershed legal events including Watergate, he was 72. C21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Senate to Act on Reducing Cigarettes' Fire Risk
The State Senate is expected to pass a bill to require tobacco companies to make cigarettes less of a risk for fires. Governor Pataki has taken no position on the legislation. A1
 
Plan for Cleaner Bus Fuel
The M.T.A. and state lawmakers agreed to move the city's bus fleet more quickly from diesel power and toward cleaner-fuel vehicles. B1
 
Home Prices Below 80's Levels
Experts say that while home prices in the region, particularly in Manhattan, have soared they have not reached the levels of the late 1980's when adjusted for inflation. B1
 
Derailment on East Side
Three cars of a Lexington Avenue subway train derailed near 68th Street, stranding some commuters inside for more than two hours. No serious injuries were reported. B3
 
EDUCATION
 
Softer Voice on Chancellor
Mayor Giuliani took a conciliatory tone toward Harold O. Levy, the interim city schools chancellor who now wants the job permanently. A1
 
Protests in Massachusetts
Several hundred 10th graders and several dozen fourth and eighth graders boycotted the first of 11 days of statewide standardized tests. A28
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-20
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Questions About Provenance
The Metropolitan Museum of Art listed 393 of its paintings with gaps in ownership between 1933 and 1945. E1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Yanks Win Home Opener
The Yankees beat Texas, 8-6. D1
 
Jets Star Traded to Tampa
The Bucs will pay Keyshawn Johnson $56 million over eight years. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
From a Bull to a Bear
The Nasdaq tumbled again -- 286.27 points, or 7.06 percent, to 3,769.63 -- leaving it down 25.3 percent from the high it set just over a month ago. A1
 
The Dow fell 161.95 points, or 1.43 percent, to 11,125.13, and the S.& P. 500 dropped 33.42 points, or 2.23 percent, to 1,467.17. C1
 
Ice Cream Maker Sold
Ben & Jerry's Homemade said it would be acquired by Unilever, which owns Breyer's and Good Humor, for $326 million in cash, or $43.60 a share. C1
 
Price-Fixing Claims Disputed
Sotheby's denied conspiring with Christie's to fix commissions for buyers and sellers and asked a federal judge to dismiss civil suits filed against the auction houses. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Death of a Playwright
A new analysis of the autopsy of Eugene O'Neill concludes that he died of a rare genetic brain disorder. A22
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Mr. Barak's path to peace; reining in Robert Ray; a closer look at rampage killings; leaner times in Albany.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E10
TV Listings E12
Crossword E11
Weather D8
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (93%); HONG KONG (92%); CUBA (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (93%); HONG KONG (92%); CUBA (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (72%); ARMS TRADE (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); RIOTS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOLOCAUST (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); POLICE FORCES (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); PARDONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (69%); TRENT LOTT (58%); AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); EHUD BARAK (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



333 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Senate Chief May Consider Indian Casino For Catskills

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 12

 BODY:
The Republican leader of the State Senate said today that he might take up a measure that would allow an Indian casino to be opened in the Catskills, potentially moving the state closer to approving the disputed plan.
The comments by Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, come nearly a week after the United States Department of the Interior granted the St. Regis Mohawk tribe permission to open a $500 million casino in the Catskills, provided that the state also approves the plan. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki, a strong proponent of casino gambling, has maintained that he has the authority to approve such a plan on behalf of the state. But he has also proposed a bill seeking approval from the Legislature for casinos in resort areas like the Catskills.
Mr. Bruno's comments are significant because he has been extremely reluctant to consider such gambling measures in the past, given the intense opposition that such proposals face from antigambling groups like the Roman Catholic Church and the state's Conservative Party.
More than that, Mr. Bruno had been adamantly opposed to the governor's bill for constitutional reasons. He took exception to a provision that would permit slot machines in Indian casinos, saying that the State Constitution forbids slot machines.
In an interview this afternoon, he reiterated his opposition to the provision in the bill that would allow slot machines on Indian reservations. But he said he would consider taking up the measure as long as that provision was removed. "I'm looking at it because we may take some action," he said, adding that "the biggest question we have is the constitutionality" of allowing slot machines.
The Interior Department's decision helped clear the way for the Mohawks to eventually operate a $500 million casino in the Catskill community of Monticello, where officials and business leaders hope that gambling may bolster the economy of a fading resort area once known as the borscht belt.
The plan calls for the Mohawks to operate the casino on a 30-acre parcel that was put in trust for the tribe, whose reservation is on the Canadian border. The casino, which would be only 90 miles from New York City, is expected to employ 3,000 people and draw 9 million visitors a year.
Mr. Pataki has long said that Indian casinos could be a boon for struggling resort regions like the Catskills and Niagara Falls. But his actions have caused a great deal of confusion.
For example, only a few days after a judge threw out two lawsuits challenging the governor's right to approve gambling projects on Indian land, Mr. Pataki filed a bill to require approval from the Legislature for Indian gambling initiatives.
It is unclear what the Legislature's role will ultimately be. The governor may still push for his bill to be adopted by the Legislature. But there are those here who believe that he may ultimately approve the Monticello casino after the Legislature's members leave Albany for the summer.
The Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver, has repeatedly said he favors opening casinos in the Catskills and other resort areas, and he has pushed legislation through his chamber that would permit casino gambling in the state. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MOHAWK INDIANS CASINOS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GAMING (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); RESORTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); RELIGION (67%); LITIGATION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000



334 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Safety;
By Some Measures, Highway Deaths Fall

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE preliminary statistics for highway deaths in 1999 are out, and they show substantial safety progress, if you look at them the way the Department of Transportation does. Looking differently at the same numbers, though, some safety analysts see stagnation.
And buried in the numbers are some contradictory trends. 
 According to the report, released earlier this month by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the number of people killed in vehicle accidents last year was 41,345, down from 41,471 in 1998, a 0.3 percent reduction.
A drop of 126 people out of more than 40,000 may not sound like a success, but the Transportation Department called that an improvement when measured by vehicle miles traveled: The 1999 rate was 1.5 deaths per 100 million vehicle miles traveled; the rate in 1998 was 1.6 deaths per 100 million miles.
Transportation Secretary Rodney E. Slater said the drop in the death rate was historic. "This continued reduction in traffic fatalities is encouraging news," he said in a statement. "Safety is President Clinton's and Vice President Gore's highest transportation priority, and these statistics show that our commitment to safety is paying huge dividends."
Over time, the number of deaths per 100 million miles is down sharply; 20 years ago it was 3.4, or more than twice the current rate, and 30 years ago it was 4.7, or three times what it is now.
But the actual number of fatalities is shrinking far more slowly. For each year of the 1990's, it has varied from 39,250 to 44,599. The rate is dropping because vehicle miles traveled jumps by about 2 percent each year, now approaching 2.7 trillion miles, up from 2.6 trillion last year, and 1.8 trillion in 1970. "The number of deaths could be stable or rising and you divide by this huge number, and it looks like things are always getting better," said Dr. Robert A. Scopatz, a statistician and road safety expert at Data Nexus Inc., a public safety consulting firm in Kissimmee, Fla. "It's always going to look like an improvement, because vehicle miles traveled rises."
Mr. Scopatz said the statistical method used by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, called the Fatality Analysis Reporting System, produced the best data available. But he added that vehicle miles traveled -- an estimate based on states counting cars at various spots -- was not the ideal number on which to make safety calculations. A better method for measuring safety, he said, would use the number of people miles -- meaning the total number of miles that people travel, whether alone or with others -- although currently there is no way to measure that. (Mr. Scopatz said he was also curious about the number of deaths per million cell phone calls.)
The preliminary numbers, some reached on the basis of direct counting and others through sampling, show that the total number of crashes reported to the police, 6.3 million, is also down, by about 0.7 percent. But the number of injuries, for reasons that are not clear, rose to 3.2 million, an increase of about 8,000, or 0.3 percent.
New cars that include more safety features and the wider use of seat belts may be reducing fatalities, and thus increasing the number of people who are counted as injured, but that shift likely represents hundreds, not thousands, of people. Stephanie Faul, a spokeswoman for the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, said better emergency medical care has also spared lives, if not injuries.
One category that experienced disappointing results was motorcycle fatalities, which reached 2,537 last year, up 11 percent from 1998. The 1998 number was about 8 percent higher than 1997.
Again, no one is sure why. Julie Rochman, a spokeswoman for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, said, "In a good economy, more people may be purchasing motorcycles as a toy." And, she said, helmet laws were being relaxed. Further analysis may show whether the death rate is highest in states that have eased their helmet laws.
And continuing to fuel the debate over higher speed limits, the transportation department's preliminary 1999 data showed that the number of deaths on roads with posted speed limits of 55 and above rose by 2 percent, and the number on roads with speed limits below 55 fell by 3 percent.
On its face, that makes it sound like faster highway traffic is causing more deaths. But there are complicating factors. According to Dr. Steven A. Bloch, a researcher at the Automobile Club of Southern California, an AAA affiliate, higher freeway speed limits are inducing drivers to change their routes from back roads to the interstates, increasing traffic there, and, as a result, the number of accidents. And the federal data did not account for the miles of roadway where the speed limit was shifted from under 55 to 55 or over.
If a past pattern holds, the number of deaths in 2000 might be significantly lower: Deaths dropped sharply in 1974, 1980 and 1992 -- years when the price of gasoline spiked. But some people think the consumer reaction to the current increase in gas prices will not be so strong.
Shashi S. Nambisan, a professor of civil engineering at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, said the scarcity of fuel could make people drive less or slower. Still, she added, "I don't think a significant portion of the population is driving significantly less."
 
2 Views on Side-Impact Air Bags
In an echo of the crisis over air bags killing or injuring children in the front passenger seat, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said last October that side-impact air bags on the rear seats could also be a hazard to children. And since parents were being urged to put children in the back seat to keep them away from the front air bags, the carmakers who offer side-impact air bags in the rear seats should ship those cars with the bags disabled, the agency said, leaving it to the buyer and the dealer to decide if they should be activated.
The reaction has been mixed.
A spokesman for BMW, Karl-Heinz Ziwica, said his company had shipped cars that way even before the October letter from the safety agency. But at Mercedes-Benz USA, James M. Resnick, a spokesman, said, "It's our belief that the rear side air bags provide a very significant safety benefit, both for adults and children." Children should be in appropriate seats or booster seats, he said, and if they are properly positioned, there is no threat to them." Based on that position, Mercedes ships its cars with the side air bags activated.
Only "a very small handful" of buyers have asked to have the bags deactivated, Mr. Resnick said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (91%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L BILL CLINTON (55%); AL GORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



335 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Poor Nations Seek Sharing of Global Wealth

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 13

 BODY:
Third world leaders met behind closed doors today to find ways to persuade the globe's economic powers to share the wealth.
Beyond trying to shame industrialized nations into action with sobering statistics, leaders at the Group of 77 summit meeting sought common ground among themselves. 
 Since its founding in 1964, the Group of 77 has grown to to include 133 developing countries.
Leaders are committed to "real results," said Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez.
Forty foreign ministers in Havana urged the United Nations to take a more active role in economic development and technology transfers to poorer nations.
"The only way to improve our lot as developing countries is to ask for a fair share in the U.N.'s decision-making process," said the ministers, mostly from Africa, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia.
Within the United Nations, the Security Council -- the only body with the power to enforce its decisions, has 5 permanent members -- the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China -- and 10 whose terms rotate every two years.
The United States and France favor adding five permanent seats -- Japan, Germany and one each from Asia, Africa and Latin America selected by the regional groups. Many nations oppose expansion, saying permanent members' veto power would freeze decision-making. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (55%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVENTY-SEVEN UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); GROUP OF SEVENTY SEVEN (G77) (84%); GROUP OF SEVENTY SEVEN (G77) (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVENTY-SEVEN UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); GROUP OF SEVENTY SEVEN (G77) (84%); GROUP OF SEVENTY SEVEN (G77) (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); HAVANA, CUBA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); VETO (75%); TRENDS (72%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



336 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Wake Up and Smell the Profits;
A Singaporean Sees the World as His Coffee Cup

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 13

 BODY:
In the shadow of some dreary public housing developments, 16-year-old April Ong is whiling away another sweltering afternoon with friends at the Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf cafe, chatting about boys and nursing an icy coffee milkshake that cost the equivalent of $2.50.
Only a few years ago, the fanciest coffee around here cost 40 cents and looked like motor oil cut with a dollop of Elmer's glue. This syrupy concoction can still be had at old-fashioned kopi tiams all over Singapore. But just as in America, teenagers like Ms. Ong and older upwardly mobile workers nowadays flock to trendy cafes to ponder dating or dot-coms over pricey coffee concoctions. 
 "Here, it's very high class," said Ms. Ong, who was wearing a pair of blue-lensed sunglasses to match her mobile phone. "The kopi tiam is very low class. It's for those uncles and aunties."
A principal agent for the change is Victor Sassoon, 42. In 1996, Mr. Sassoon, a Singaporean entrepreneur and former rock concert promoter, bought the Asian franchise for Coffee Bean, a chain of gourmet coffee shops based in Los Angeles and then little-known outside southern California. The stores he opened were very successful and Mr. Sassoon thought the Coffee Bean brand and its signature ice-blended coffee milkshakes were very hot. So in late 1998 he turned around and bought the American parent company, International Coffee & Tea L.L.C., from its founders -- a move analysts say is highly unusual.
Mr. Sassoon now has 32 outlets here and 21 in Malaysia; the company expects to generate more than $100 million in worldwide sales this year. This month, it opened the first Coffee Bean in Taiwan. And with an eye on the success of Starbucks, Mr. Sassoon plans to expand across the United States and even take Coffee Bean public.
"In America, we're really going to roll," Mr. Sassoon said as he sipped a black coffee in an office filled with posters from pop tours he brought to Southeast Asia, autographed by stars including Alanis Morrisette, Phil Collins and Michael Jackson.
Fittingly, Mr. Sassoon's foray into coffee owes much to another pop singer, Paula Abdul. Mr. Sassoon and his wife, Michelle, promoted Ms. Abdul's tour to Southeast Asia in 1992. Three years later, while the Sassoons were in Los Angeles visiting Victor's brother Sunny, they met Ms. Abdul at the Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf in Beverly Hills. Coffee Bean had already earned a reputation in southern California for a celebrity clientele that included the actors Jennifer Aniston, Tom Cruise and Bruce Willis.
Mr. Sassoon mentioned he was considering bringing Coffee Bean to Singapore. "Guys," Ms. Abdul recalls telling them, "this is the greatest product in the world. You've got to get this company." Mr. Sassoon was sold.
It was a good time to bring a new brand to Singapore. Asia's economic boom was fueling a taste for anything imported. In Singapore, a handful of companies were already catering to the newfound taste for expensive blends among well-traveled urbanites. Within months of opening the first Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf, Singapore's first Starbucks opened, only 600 yards away. There are now 21 Starbucks outlets here -- and 226 throughout the Asia-Pacific, with plans for a total of 500 in the region by the end of 2003.
Coffee Bean was founded in 1963 by Herbert and Mona Hyman, and quickly became something of a Southern California institution. Its 1987 addition of the ice-blends multiplied its popularity, but Mr. Sassoon said it took months to persuade the Hymans, who had never taken their brand much beyond Los Angeles, that expanding abroad was a good idea.
Born in Singapore to an Iraqi-Jewish family and raised in Jakarta, Mr. Sassoon got his first taste for retailing when he inherited his father's business importing designer watches in 1984. He still runs the exclusive franchise for Cartier in Indonesia. Next was a chain of stores carrying a line of Disney baby merchandise, a franchise Mr. Sassoon and his wife ran until 1998.
In 1990, they began promoting big-name events, starting out with the illusionist David Copperfield. But Asia's financial crisis erased Singapore from the pop tour map. In 1998, Billy Joel, Elton John and U2 all canceled visits here, and Mr. Sassoon took it as a sign that it was time to get out of the concert business. "Boy bands have taken over from megastars anyway," he said. And the newcomers, he added, "don't even last long enough to get them here."
Mr. Sassoon also saw the writing on the wall for franchise operators.
"The world's getting so small," he said. "The licensing business is dead." So he approached the Hymans, then in their 70's, with a new offer: he and his brother would take the company off their hands. In December 1998, the Sassoons bought the company for an amount they declined to disclose.
The Sassoons are less shy about their plans to expand in the United States. From 60 outlets in Southern California, they plan to add 50 this year in California, Nevada and Arizona, according to Sunny Sassoon, and may even venture as far as Chicago or New York. The company has consulted investment bankers and may try to spin off the Asian operations of Coffee Bean this year; it may also later try to list the United States company.
("Well heck, I should get some credit for that," said the Sassoon's surprised original consultant, Ms. Abdul.)
Emulating the continental spread of Starbucks -- which has more than 2,800 outlets worldwide and which last year had $1.7 billion in sales -- will mean succeeding where other coffee chains have failed, analysts warn. "It is a very difficult thing to do," said Scott Waltmann of Merrill Lynch in New York. With labor markets so tight, adding new stores eventually means sacrificing service, he said.
Back in Singapore, Coffee Bean's rivalry with Starbucks seems more evenly matched, though neither will say much about the competition. The most pressure is on Singapore's own incumbents, the traditional kopi tiams. These noisy, open-air cafes, were once as central to Singapore's traditional neighborhood and village life as the small-town American diner or the English pub.
Among the godowns, or warehouses, and villages of Singapore 30 years ago, the kopi tiam was not only a place to get a hot drink or quick meal from the hawker stalls but also served as both neighborhood watch center and fire station. In a city where very few could afford a newspaper and even fewer could read, the kopi tiam was a place to share a newspaper or hear it read out loud.
Pang Eng Fong, 56, remembers growing up above his grandfather's busy kopi tiam among the rubber godowns along the Singapore River after World War II.
The kopi tiam burned down in the 1960's and, like Singapore, Mr. Pang has moved onward and upward. After earning his doctorate in economics from the University of Illinois in 1971, he is now Singapore's ambassador to Britain. Where the shop once stood, trendy clubs operate out of restored buildings. Abandoned godowns are being pulled down to make way for Mediterranean-style piazzas and bars with names like Tivoli and Bar Celona.
The old kopi tiam may not have had electricity or indoor plumbing, Mr. Pang said, but "there was a sense of community that I think is hard to define now."
There are still plenty of other kopi tiams in town even today. Not far from where Ambassador Pang grew up, his cousin Pang Peng Bee, 55, serves up as many as 700 cups of coffee a day at his Tanglin First Stop Coffee Shop. Coffee here is prepared not in a gleaming espresso machine but by pouring pitchers of scalding water mixed with powdered grounds through a sort of sock.
Most of Singapore's old kopi tiams moved into food courts in the 1960's and 1970's as old neighborhoods and villages were demolished to make way for bland public housing. Where Ms. Ong's favorite Coffee Bean stands, for example, was a village of pepper and pineapple farmers. As the city grew richer in the 1980's, food courts abandoned the tropical heat for air-conditioned shopping malls.
Now, per capita incomes are on par with many parts of Western Europe, and mass-market consumer goods are not enough for the status-conscious Singaporean. Wine bars, cigar bars (Cubans only, please), organic food shops and microbreweries have all begun to proliferate. Dining outdoors, once considered plebeian, is now called alfresco.
Starbucks, too, has upmarket hopes here. "Starbucks is a place where people want to meet," said Loh Jee Fang, a marketing executive at the company's franchise operator, BonStar Pte. Ltd. "It's a destination in itself."
When Mr. Sassoon opened the first Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf in Singapore in November 1996, the local newspaper ran a coffee glossary complete with pronunciation key. The chain's popularity was undiminished by Asia's financial crisis: sitting in cafes became a relatively cheap alternative to shopping and traveling. In late 1997, Mr. Sassoon expanded to Malaysia.
The beans are roasted in California and shipped out in vacuum-sealed packs. Coffee Bean's baristas, mostly teenagers, are taught strict quality control, relying on a timer to make sure they pull every shot of espresso with just the right amount of crema. They mix the coffee with milk in a glass, Mr. Sassoon said, so they can monitor the mixture by its color.
Of course, not everyone is won over. Holding a cup of Mr. Pang's muddy brew between inch-long fingernails, Stephen Chiok, a 37-year-old telephone technician, says he is one of the many ordinary folks uninterested in coffee served "where they have all the test tubes and whatnot." At this kopi tiam, the barista is a balding man in flip-flops and a threadbare white T-shirt with 30 years of experience. Another self-styled kopi purist, 60-year-old Poon Luan Yak, scoffed, "Starbucks -- that's for youngsters."
Indeed, Ms. Ong acknowledges that her taste for coffee never ventures beyond the ice-blendeds. These frosty coffee-flavored smoothies account for roughly 40 percent of Coffee Bean's overall sales, according to Mr. Sassoon. The only special skill required to make one is the ability to mix the prescribed ratio of coffee syrup, milk and ice in a blender.
"There's no style here," said one Coffee Bean barista as he pureed yet another ice-blended. "The blender is my style."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coffee Beans & Tea Leaf shops hope they can give Starbucks a run for it's money in the United States. At left, a store in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles serves up some cool coffee drinks on a warm March day. (Top left, Martial Trezzini/Keystone for The New York Times; above, Marissa Roth for The New York Times)
 
Chart:
The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf
 
STORES
'97 -- 44
'98 -- 67
'99 -- 98
'00 -- 155
 
EMPLOYEES
'97 -- 950
'98 -- 1,400
'99 -- 2,200
'00 -- 3,000
 
SALES (millions)
'97 -- 31
'98 -- 45
'99 -- 61
'00 -- 100
 
All data for fiscal years ended December
 
Starbucks Coffee
 
STORES
'97 -- 1,301
'98 -- 1,688
'99 -- 2,135
'00 -- 2,735
 
EMPLOYEES
'97 -- 25,000
'98 -- 26,000
'99 -- 37,000
'00 -- 41,600
 
SALES (millions)
'97 -- 975
'98 -- 1,309
'99 -- 1,680
'00 -- 2,100
All data for fiscal years ended September
(Sources: The companies; Chase Hembrecht & Quist)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722410 DRINKING PLACES (ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES) (90%); NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5813 DRINKING PLACES (90%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (90%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); MALAYSIA (90%); ASIA (88%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL COFFEE & TEA LLC; STARBUCKS CORP INTERNATIONAL COFFEE & TEA LLC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COFFEE & TEA LLC; STARBUCKS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); MALAYSIA (90%); ASIA (88%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COFFEE; TEA COFFEE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); POP & ROCK (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); EVENT MARKETING (66%); CELEBRITIES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; SASSOON, VICTOR JENNIFER ANISTON (58%); TOM CRUISE (50%); BRUCE WILLIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



337 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Retail Sales Remain Strong; Wholesale Prices Jump 1 Percent

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Sales by retailers were surprisingly strong in March, while soaring energy costs caused a spike in wholesale prices, the government said today in reports that reinforced the expectation of more increases in interest rates.
The Commerce Department said retail sales increased 0.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted $269.2 billion last month, and, excluding a slump in new cars after four straight months of big sales gains, were ahead 1.4 percent. That followed upwardly revised sales gains of 1.8 percent in February and 0.7 percent in January, underscoring the powerful thrust the economic expansion is receiving from consumer spending, which fuels two-thirds of national economic activity. 
 "Nothing seems to slow the consumer down," said Joel Naroff, an economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. "Spending in the first quarter was once again out of this world."
The report triggered some selling in Treasuries but had little effect on stock markets.
In a separate report, the Labor Department said that the Producer Price Index jumped 1 percent in March, matching February's increase, but that the closely watched core rate, which strips out volatile energy and food costs, added only 0.1 percent, down from 0.3 percent in February.
Analysts said the rise in wholesale prices was not threatening because so much of it could be traced to energy costs that appear to have peaked or to be near a peak. Imported oil prices hit $32 a barrel in mid-March, but on Monday were down to $23.85 after an agreement on March 28 by members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase output.
The retail sales report showed strong March spending increases on a wide range of goods, from building materials to clothing to food and drugstore items.
With the spring construction season at hand, March sales of building materials rose 3.8 percent, to $15.97 billion, more than recovering from a 1.5 percent dip in February.
Reflecting higher prices, gasoline sales rose 4 percent, to $18.32 billion, after soaring 6.8 percent in February. For the year ended March 31, gas prices climbed 31.2 percent, the biggest annual rise in nearly two decades, the Commerce Department said.
Although the producer prices report indicated only muted price increases for goods aside from food and energy, reports from a business economists' group indicated that there were pressures in the pipeline that might eventually pass through to consumers.
The economists' group, the National Association for Business Economics, said its latest survey found a growing willingness by producers to push prices up during the first quarter after years of restraint.
"We have seen a distinct upward shift in pricing momentum in recent months, particularly in the ability of firms to realize planned price increases," said Diane Swonk, president of the association and chief economist for the Bank One Corporation in Chicago.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales"
Total retail sales, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
 
Graph tracks U.S. retail sales since Oct., 1998.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (60%); JPM (LSE) (60%); 8634 (TSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE RETAIL SALES (92%); WHOLESALE PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



338 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: General Motors Says Profit Fell Slightly in First Quarter

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 13

 BODY:
General Motors announced today that its profits fell slightly in the first quarter as an unexpected turnaround in its international operations was not enough to offset unusually heavy discounting in the United States and rising costs at its Hughes Electronics subsidiary.
G.M.'s earnings from continuing operations edged down 2 percent, to $1.78 billion, compared with $1.82 billion in the quarter a year earlier. But because the automaker has been steadily buying back stock, its earnings per share actually climbed, to $2.80 from $2.68 in the quarter a year earlier. 
 Analysts had expected the company to earn $2.66 a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Shares edged up 50 cents, to $88.
For the last three years, G.M. has earned ever higher profits from its North American automotive operations while struggling to prevent earnings from disappearing entirely overseas. G.M. reversed that pattern in the first quarter.
Its European automotive operations posted a 27 percent increase in profits while its Latin American and East Asian operations moved back into the black after suffering losses a year ago. G.M.'s huge Brazilian operations, one of the newest and most efficient auto divisions in the world, became modestly profitable again, as did G.M.'s new joint venture in Shanghai, where a factory has been producing Buicks for less than a year.
But earnings slipped 8.4 percent at G.M.'s North American division, which represents the bulk of the company's sales and profits, even though the United States auto market was running at its highest seasonally adjusted rate of sales ever in the first quarter.
G.M. continued raising sticker prices slightly in the first quarter but offered so many discounts that the average price for which it was able to sell a vehicle actually declined 0.7 percent, excluding changes in the types of vehicles and how they were equipped, said Michael Losh, G.M.'s chief financial officer. He said that it was premature to conclude whether G.M.'s earnings in the coming quarters would also depend more on foreign results and less on the United States.
"We expect to have continued strong results in 2000, and that'll be driven by strong demand in the U.S. and Europe particularly," Mr. Losh said. He predicted that the industry's sales in the United States would be 17.3 million to 17.7 million vehicles this year, a torrid pace and an increase from G.M.'s previous estimates that the industry would sell about 17 million vehicles this year.
Wall Street analysts had a mixed reaction to G.M.'s earnings. David Bradley, an auto analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities, said that he had expected the strength of the American auto market to do more for G.M.'s bottom line.
"I'm questioning that thesis of whether they're going to be able to take advantage of this cyclical boom and make more money," he said.
But Mr. Bradley also expressed enthusiasm about G.M.'s improvement overseas, saying that the company would benefit in the long term from being less dependent on the United States market. "There's more stability, predictability and breadth" in the earnings, he said.
In a conference call this morning with analysts and reporters, Mr. Losh warned that G.M.'s 49 percent stake in Isuzu Motors of Japan would result in a loss of about $100 million in the second quarter. While G.M. has already recognized the pension costs that will cause Isuzu to post a loss for the year ended March 31, Isuzu is also trying to reduce its excessive inventory in Japan at a time when demand is slow, particularly for Isuzu's heavy trucks, Mr. Losh said. G.M. expects that profits elsewhere in the company will make up for the loss at Isuzu and allow the company to meet analysts' forecasts for the quarter, he added.
G.M.'s revenue rose 10 percent in the first quarter, to $46.9 billion from $42.4 billion in the period a year earlier. G.M.'s net income fell to $1.78 billion from $2.06 billion, but almost all of this drop reflected the spinoff last May of the company's auto parts unit, Delphi Automotive Systems; as a result, Delphi's profits were included in the first quarter last year, but not this year.
The G.M. earnings today included a $77 million loss by Hughes, compared with a $78 million gain a year ago. Hughes, which had heavy promotional and equipment costs to add 405,000 new subscribers to its DirectTV service, announced its results separately on Wednesday.
G.M.'s auto financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, earned $397 million, up from $392 million a year earlier. Automakers' lending divisions tend to fare poorly when short-term interest rates are rising, as they have been this spring. But the division has had little problem with debtors' staying current with their bills, Mr. Losh said, probably because of the strong economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); EASTERN ASIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); EASTERN ASIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); JOINT VENTURES (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL LOSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



339 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Reports Strong Revenue In First Quarter

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
General Electric, benefiting from resurgent global economies and its push into e-commerce, announced robust first-quarter revenue and earnings yesterday.
For the quarter ended March 31, the company's revenue surged to $30 billion, up 24 percent from $24.2 billion in the period a year earlier. Net income rose to $2.6 billion, or 78 cents a diluted share, a 20 percent rise compared with the $2.16 billion, or 65 cents a share, earned in the quarter a year earlier. 
 The solid performance surprised no one. In March, in a preannouncement that was highly unusual for G.E., the company told analysts that its earnings would most likely hit 77 cents a share, 2 cents more than the company and Wall Street had predicted. G.E. beat that by a penny.
"Matching or beating by no more than a penny, that's typical of G.E.," said Charles L. Hill, director of research at First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks analysts' recommendations. "They have a great investor relations policy, which is that there should be few surprises."
Shareholders seemed unimpressed, though. Shares of G.E., which had soared in March on the promise of 77-cents-a-share earnings, fell on the reality of 78 cents yesterday. The stock closed at $150, down $6.625. G.E., based in Fairfield, Conn., plans to split its stock 3 for 1 later this month.
For the first time in a long time, G.E.'s industrial businesses grew as fast -- and in some cases, even faster -- than GE Capital, its huge finance arm. Airlines stepped up ordering jet engines this year, and GE Aircraft Engines won more than half the orders. GE Medical Systems received $50 million in orders for two new digital X-ray machines.
Revenue at GE Power Systems rose nearly 90 percent as utilities scrambled to meet the rising energy needs of a booming economy.
"The tremendous surge in demand for power gave Power Systems an absolutely blowout quarter," said Kent A. Newcomb, an analyst with A. G. Edwards.
All of G.E.'s businesses benefited from G.E.'s Six Sigma program, a complicated quality control plan that G.E. expects will yield $2.5 billion in savings this year. G.E.'s Six Sigma specialists have begun to help customers cut their own costs; the help is free, but analysts say that grateful customers are responding with larger and longer-term contracts.
"G.E. has made customer focus its mantra, and that is resulting in real dividends," said Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst with Prudential Securities.
G.E.'s 18-month-old effort to harness the power of the Internet has also begun to yield results. Power Systems sold more than $120 million in parts through its new Web site, GEPartsEdge.com. Last month GE Medical Systems joined with four other companies to form the Global Healthcare Exchange, an online marketplace for health care products and services.
G.E. has not yet quantified the effect its move onto the Web has had on its bottom line. "But we know it's there, we know it's real, we know it's electrifying the company and having tangible results," said Gary Sheffer, a G.E. spokesman.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); GE POWER SYSTEMS (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); GE MEDICAL SYSTEMS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY REVENUES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); QUALITY CONTROL (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SIX SIGMA (86%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); IRRADIATION APPARATUS MFG (77%); STOCK SPLITS (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); AIRLINES (63%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (63%); WEB SITES (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



340 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Investors Are Puzzled by Stock Woes

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that he views investors in the gyrating financial markets of the last few weeks as having been "groping" for the proper valuations of stocks, especially those of technology companies.
In an appearance on Capitol Hill, Mr. Greenspan also urged Congress and financial regulators not to overreact to technology-driven changes in the ways that stocks are traded. 
 And while he said nothing to suggest that the central bank will not continue to raise interest rates in coming months, he said he saw no signs that inflation is becoming embedded in the economy, despite the 1 percent rise reported today in the producer price index for March.
Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee a day after the Nasdaq composite index officially entered a bear market, Mr. Greenspan suggested that the stock market's ups and downs of late have been the result not of rampant speculation, a herd mentality or even the Fed's own interest rate increases. Rather, he said, it reflected a natural effort on the part of investors to make sense of the ways in which technology is altering business and the economy.
He said the surge in technology stocks over the last few years had been driven by continually upgraded earnings estimates.
"Because these judgments are so difficult to make, we are also getting a high degree of instability and volatility," Mr. Greenspan said. "So I think what's happening is the markets are groping for the correct balance underlying the system."
Mr. Greenspan added, however, that he would "scarcely want to get involved in the exercise of trying to determine at what point the prices should stabilize."
The Fed chairman also ducked a question about whether stock prices have fallen sufficiently to allay his concerns about the "wealth effect," the tendency of consumers to spend a portion of any money they make on their investments. Mr. Greenspan has frequently described the wealth effect as one of the major causes of potentially inflationary imbalances in the economy.
But he noted that even after the sharp fall in the Nasdaq and the smaller declines in other market gauges, stock prices over all were still ahead of where they were a year ago.
Faced with questions about whether he was "jawboning" the stock market down, Mr. Greenspan insistently said he was not. And he again emphasized that the Fed's five quarter point interest rate increases over the last year were not aimed at the stock market but at supporting the higher long-term rates being set in the credit markets.
For the Fed to have left unchanged the short term rates it controls during a period when market rates were rising, Mr. Greenspan said, would have required the central bank to inject money into the financial system. In that sense, trying to hold its rates down would have been inflationary.
In Mr. Greenspan's view, many of the same forces generating uncertainty among investors are reshaping the structure of the stock exchanges.
The rise of alternative trading systems -- so-called electronic communications networks -- is not only posing a challenge to the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, but also raising concerns among regulators about a fragmentation of the equity markets.
To the degree that markets are broken up into chunks that do not allow buyers and sellers to get a complete picture of bid and ask prices, the rise of new trading systems threatened to make markets less efficient, less liquid and more apt to shortchange the investor, he said.
Mr. Greenspan said such concerns were justified, but he put his faith in competition to offer investors an improved service.
Even the New York Stock Exchange could become marginalized if it did not respond, he said. Fragmentation of the marketplace would be a "necessary consequence of the process of competition" that probably "cannot be avoided entirely."
From a regulatory perspective, Mr. Greenspan said, the government should let the marketplace work it out.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Phil Gramm, left, and Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, conferred yesterday before Senate Banking Committee hearings. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); HERD BEHAVIOR (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



341 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO FALLS. The euro edged lower after the European Central Bank left interest rates unchanged, disappointing some investors. In New York, the euro settled at 95.42 cents, down from 95.67 cents on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan. 1999 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES EURO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



342 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Serbia's Bickering Opposition Plans Rally Against Milosevic

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, April 13

 BODY:
Serbia's political opposition, superficially united after months of squabbling and pressure from the West, will hold a major political rally here on Friday but with no hope of pushing President Slobodan Milosevic out of power anytime soon.
With unclear goals and few specific plans for what to do next, the opposition hopes the rally will give voice to the widespread dissatisfaction with Mr. Milosevic, but no longer expects to attain its original aim of forcing early elections at all levels. Still, opposition leaders say pressure for elections is the most efficient and least risky tactic they could find. 
 "We're pressing for early elections -- what else can we do?" said Ognjen Pribicevic, chief adviser to the dominant opposition leader, Vuk Draskovic of the Serbian Renewal Movement. "Our only weapon is elections, elections. This rally will be a big 'no' to the regime and to state terrorism and a big 'yes' to elections. But after a million quarrels, we will be united on stage for the first time since 1997."
The rally will call for elections with no expectation of having even local elections before autumn. And the organizers also don't expect the crucial Serbian elections, which will not take place until at least the summer or autumn of 2001 -- after the Clinton administration has left office -- to result in any quick or peaceful transfer of power.
Speaking privately, they say their main hope is that a good showing by a relatively united opposition -- say, 10 or more percentage points better than the ruling coalition in the Serbian elections -- would lead the Milosevic regime to finally crack apart.
Moreover, the rally will not erase the festering fissures within the opposition, and its central dilemma: while most Serbs don't like Mr. Milosevic, they don't like this generation of opposition leaders much either.
Even Zoran Djindjic, who heads the Democratic Party and has had a long-running rivalry with Mr. Draskovic, acknowledges that opposition leaders have a credibility problem that is rooted in political failure. And new faces are also having a hard time. Mr. Djindjic's popular young deputy, Slobodan Vuksanovic, challenged him for the party leadership when Mr. Djindjic did not resign his post in January, as he had promised to do if Mr. Milosevic remained in office.
Mr. Djindjic, organizing a trip to Washington and a brief meeting with President Clinton just before the party convention, barely beat off Mr. Vuksanovic's challenge. Mr. Djindjic has since moved harshly to rid the party of Mr. Vuksanovic's main supporters.
"Djindjic staying contributes to the sense of a frozen political system, and a frozen political system is what Milosevic wants," Mr. Vuksanovic said. "People are very angry with the Milosevic regime, but they don't trust the opposition."
Radomir Diklic, who runs the independent news agency, Beta, says the opposition needs new faces and a change of generation, and notes that one such fresh face, 36-year-old Goran Svilanovic, is running advertisements to promote himself that way. "There's no energy, no self-confidence and lost credibility," Mr. Diklic said. "Maybe 80 percent of the population are unhappy with the present situation, but maybe 60 percent are not happy voting for this opposition."
The rivalry between Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Draskovic is legendary, and stems from their broken alliance in 1997, when the opposition won the last local elections and Mr. Milosevic's effort to rob them of the victory brought hundreds of thousands of protesters onto the streets every day for three months.
But Mr. Djindjic's efforts to overthrow Mr. Milosevic through daily rallies last summer and fall, after the loss of Kosovo in the war, were a clear failure. Mr. Draskovic's strategy to force the regime into having early elections on all levels -- local, federal and state -- has also failed.
"Our unity is produced by these two failures," said Mr. Svilanovic, the leader of the Civic Alliance, a small party in the Alliance for Change that Mr. Djindjic's party dominates and that Mr. Draskovic refused to join.
With Mr. Draskovic again dominant, the formally allied opposition announced on Jan. 10 that it would have a rally by the end of March to press for early elections. There was so much infighting about whether to have such a rally, who would speak, in what order and on what topics that Mr. Svilanovic said the other day that he was "ashamed" of the opposition.
With the rally now going ahead on Friday, April 14, the joke is that it will take place on the "45th day of March." But there are few hopes that it will have any major impact, unless it turns violent, and real concerns that it will simply disappoint normal citizens who will attend and want a clear strategy for change.
The rally is being held on the Square of the Republic, which will look packed with even 50,000 people.
"In January, the rally was part of our common strategy for early elections," Mr. Svilanovic said. "Then it became an issue on its own, without a strategy, to show unity. But it must be followed by some action to show people that we are alive."
Srdjan Bogosavljevic, a respected pollster who runs the Strategic Marketing and Media Research Institute, says that Mr. Milosevic "still has a lot to play for" in the vital Serbian elections. His polls show that 39 percent of the electorate are undecided and nearly 12 percent will not vote -- half the voters. Of the other half, the opposition is only 5 percentage points ahead of the ruling coalition.
And he points out that the nationalist Radical Party always wins more votes than the polls indicate, making the race now nearly neck-and-neck, with the regime in control of the main television station, which is the way most people get news.
"People are dissatisfied with Milosevic and want change," Mr. Bogosavljevic said. "But they also believe what they hear about the opposition leaders," who are labeled corrupt, traitors in the pay of NATO and worse in the official media.
Although many oppose him, Mr. Milosevic has earned some credit for keeping promises and getting the population through its first post-bombing winter. Despite widespread predictions from the opposition and NATO capitals that severe energy and heating shortages would occur because of bomb damage, Serbs were warmer this winter than the residents of Kosovo, where NATO and the United Nations administration had enormous trouble providing electricity. The government has rebuilt many of the highway and railway bridges NATO bombed and rebuilt or repaired many houses and apartments that were damaged.
The economy is in poor shape and the average monthly wage is now about $50, but the opposition has been incapable of capitalizing on the hardship or even laying out a coherent program for social and economic change.
"We know there are social and economic problems," said Goran Matic, the Yugoslav Information Minister. "But people also know we've worked very hard after the war to try to solve them, and in very difficult circumstances." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); RIOTS (60%); TERRORISM (53%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



343 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Flag Compromise Resisted in South Carolina House

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., April 13

 BODY:
Even as the South Carolina Senate gave its overwhelming final approval to a compromise plan that would remove the Confederate battle flag from the State Capitol's dome, the bill ran into heated opposition today from black members of the state's House of Representatives, who said the flag's location in front of the building would be no less an affront to black citizens.
The flag issue has exposed a deep rift between black senators -- six of seven voted for the bill -- and black House members, who represent smaller districts and tend to be less inclined to compromise. One legislator said that 24 of the 26 black representatives were opposed to this compromise and that many would actually prefer to keep the flag on the dome rather than move it out front. The House is likely to vote in the next two or three weeks on the bill, which cleared the Senate by 36 to 7 on Wednesday and by the same tally in one last, technical vote today. 
 In addition, the N.A.A.C.P., which is engaged in an economic boycott of the state because of the flag's display, said today that the boycott would continue if it was moved to the front of the Capitol. James Gallman, president of the group's South Carolina chapter, said a flag in front of a public building conveyed the same sense of sovereignty as a flag above it.
Several state officials said privately that they expected the bill to pass the House with the approval of most black members, after some initial resistance intended largely to satisfy the black lawmakers' constituents. The legislation's chances will improve, these officials said, when members realize that it is the only way to get the flag off the dome. In fact, the speaker of the Republican-controlled House, David H. Wilkins, an avid flag supporter, said today that the Senate compromise was the only plan he would allow to pass.
Under that plan, the rectangular Confederate flag would be removed from the dome and from the two legislative chambers. A smaller, square version of the flag, similar to the one carried by Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, would be placed on a 20-foot flagpole in front of the Capitol, adjacent to a 33-foot-high memorial to the state's Confederate soldiers.
Atop the dome, the flag can be seen throughout the city, but it is so high that it is actually hard to see on the Capitol grounds. Its position closer to eye level near the main entrance to the Capitol, several black representatives argued, would make it more prominent to anyone passing by.
"It's right in your face," said Representative J. Todd Rutherford, a black Democrat from Columbia. "Any rally or march or protest at the Statehouse will have to take place directly under that flag. It's not the proper place for it, and I'd rather leave it up on the dome than put it there."
Although one black senator has said he voted for the plan because the flag would be smaller, that argument did not seem to carry much weight among blacks in the House.
"Would you ask the Jewish community to accept a smaller swastika flag?" said Representative Fletcher N. Smith, a black Democrat from Greenville. "This is the flag of treason against the United States government, and it should not be celebrated or put in any kind of prominent position."
But Darrell Jackson, the Senate's leading black opponent of the flag, said the proposal, distasteful though it was to him, was the best compromise that could be struck.
"At the end of the day, this will pass," said Mr. Jackson, a life member of the N.A.A.C.P. "This gets rid of three flags in positions of sovereignty, and replaces them with one. My colleagues in the House will have to realize they can accept the compromise or maintain the status quo. And if we adjourn and leave the flag up there on the dome, they will have to answer to themselves and their constituents."
The bill could pass the 124-member House without any black votes, but the majority leader, Representative Richard M. Quinn Jr. of Columbia, said today that the Republicans would not support it without being joined by a substantial number of Democrats.
The issue has festered in South Carolina since legislators first unfurled the flag in 1962 as part of the centennial observance of the Civil War. Later the state kept it flying in defiance of the civil rights movement. This year, after the boycott made it a national issue that reached even into the presidential campaign, lawmakers have been under tremendous pressure from business and political leaders around the state to adopt any kind of compromise that would get the flag off the dome. The South Carolina Chamber of Commerce, for example, has said it does not care where the flag goes, as long as it does not fly from the Capitol.
Several House members suggested today that the pressure for a compromise had led the Senate to be too generous to flag supporters, whose standard would be the only one flying in front of the Capitol. (Atop the dome, it flies with both the American flag and the state flag.) But even critics said they could understand such an accommodation, given the fiercely held belief among many white lawmakers that the flag is a noble symbol of their families' Southern heritage.
Representative Curtis B. Inabinett, a black member from the coastal town of Ravenel, noted that he reluctantly voted on Wednesday for a bill creating a state holiday to honor the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., making South Carolina the last state to do so. His reluctance, he said, resulted from a provision, attached by white lawmakers, that would also create a Confederate Memorial holiday.
"That was the hardest vote I ever cast, but it was that or nothing," Mr. Inabinett said. "And if it turns out this is the best we can do on the flag, well, then, I suspect a lot of us will turn around and vote for it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The South Carolina Senate would remove the Confederate battle flag from the Capitol dome, where it now flies with the American flag and the state flag, and hoist it on a flagpole adjacent to this Confederate memorial. (Rich Glickstein/The State, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; COLUMBIA (SC); UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; DISCRIMINATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BOYCOTTS (71%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



344 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Nasdaq Gasps for Air, Then Faints Away Again, by 2.5%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
A modest rebound in technology stocks vaporized in midafternoon yesterday as the Nasdaq composite index fell for a fourth consecutive day, dragging a broad swath of other shares down with it.
Although government reports early in the day of strong retail sales and faster, oil-driven inflation added to uneasiness about an overheated economy, the sell-off came long after that news had been absorbed and after a spate of surprisingly good earnings reports. 
 The economic news hurt financial stocks, which suffered all day as investors anticipated that further interest rate increases to forestall inflation would put pressure on those companies' earnings. Weighed down by American Express and J. P. Morgan, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 201.58 points, or 1.8 percent, to 10,923.55.
Falling nearly 150 points in the last 45 minutes of the day, the Nasdaq composite index finished the day down 92.85 points, or 2.5 percent, at 3,676.78. The technology-heavy index is now 27.2 percent below its March 10 peak, firmly in what is regarded as bear-market territory.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 26.66 points, or 1.82 percent, to 1,440.51.
Stock analysts said they had seen a shift in psychology in recent weeks that has taken a huge toll on technology stocks. The rush to buy on the dips, which has often pulled the market out of slides, has faded and been replaced by a different mentality.
"If you're in a bear market, instead of buying on weakness you think in terms of selling on strength," said Robert Bloom, president of Friends, Ivory & Sime, a New York money manager.
That certainly seemed to be the approach yesterday. The Nasdaq index climbed as much as 3.84 percent, regaining somewhat more than half the ground it lost in Wednesday's downdraft. At that point, investors with paper gains on stocks they have held over the last year or two saw an opportunity to lighten up on their technology portfolios. Notably, the Nasdaq finished the day very near the low point of 3,649.11 it reached during the April 4 session. Though the technology gauge came roaring back late that same afternoon, it has since retraced the downward path, leaving the 5,000 mark a fleeting memory. Strategists now fear that a breach of the 3,650 mark could bring on a fresh wave of heavy selling.
"There are still a huge number of companies selling at astonishing levels compared with their revenue," said Ned Riley Jr., market strategist at State Street Advisors in Boston. As an example, he said the peg ratio -- the stock price as a multiple of the growth in earnings -- is well over three for leading technology stocks, more than twice the level that has traditionally appealed to buyers.
If the downturn of the Nasdaq over the last month is "cleansing the system," Mr. Riley added, "we still have a way to go." The Nasdaq composite posted a whopping 86 percent gain in 1999.
Yesterday's slide, which followed the second-biggest point drop on record, took the Nasdaq back to its lowest level since mid-December. So far this year, it is down 9.65 percent, compared with losses of 4.99 percent for the Dow Jones industrials and 1.96 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500.
Sizable amounts of money being pulled out of technology in recent weeks have been redirected into the stocks of smokestack America or into such established sectors as banking and drugs.
But financial stocks were among the larger casualties yesterday as analysts fretted about the seemingly irrepressible spending of the nation's consumers and a second consecutive sizable monthly rise in producer prices, albeit mainly from oil.
A statement by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, that he saw no evidence of acceleration in unit labor costs did little to dispel assumptions that more interest rate increases lie ahead.
J. P. Morgan, down 53/16 to 131 1/2, and American Express, down 4 1/2 to 146, were two of the biggest losers among Dow components. General Electric, which has a major financial unit, was the biggest drag of all on the index, falling 6 5/8, to 150, even though G.E. reported earnings that were better than it had predicted on March 21. General Motors, which also reported earnings higher than predicted, gained 1/2, to 88.
Cisco Systems, one of the brand-name companies that have been caught up in the technology downdraft that began with Internet stocks, slumped 3 7/8, to 61 1/8, sharply below its peak of 82 reached less than three weeks ago. It was the biggest drag on the Standard & Poor's 500. More than 104 million shares of Cisco changed hands, compared with 47.2 million for No. 2, Microsoft, which lost 1/8, to 79 1/4.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Yields on Treasuries Drop
 Treasury yields moved slightly lower yesterday after volatility in the equity markets sent investors fleeing to the relative safety of government securities.
The flight-to-safety pared earlier losses in Treasuries that resulted when strong consumer data raised investor fears that the Fed would raise interest rates again.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 9/32, to a price of 106 15/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.79 percent, from 5.81 percent on Wednesday.
For the first time in weeks, the Treasury bond market had a noticeably negative reaction to stronger-than-expected economic data. Retail sales increased 0.4 percent last month on the heels of upwardly revised gains of 0.7 percent and 1.1 percent in January and February, respectively.
Don Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, called it "a clear sign that personal consumption expenditure during the first quarter surged forward at a scorching pace."
The 1 percent jump in the March Producer Price Index matched a similar increase in February and doubled expectations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); FRIENDS IVORY & SIME PLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (57%); INTEREST RATES (55%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



345 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

G.M. Profit Declines 2% But Still Beats Forecasts
Profit at General Motors edged down 2 percent in the first quarter as an unexpected turnaround in its international operations was not enough to offset unusually heavy discounting in the United States and rising costs at its Hughes Electronics subsidiary. Despite the decline, the results beat Wall Street forecasts.
In the United States, G.M. continued raising sticker prices slightly in the first quarter but offered so many discounts that the average price for which it was able to sell a vehicle actually declined 0.7 percent. Page C2. 

G.E. Posts Solid Gain in Earnings
General Electric, benefiting from resurgent global economies and its push into electronic commerce, announced robust first-quarter revenue and earnings. Net income rose 20 percent, to $2.6 billion, or 78 cents a share, while revenue surged to $30 billion, up 24 percent. The results beat Wall Street estimates by a penny. Shareholders seemed unimpressed, though. Shares of G.E., which had soared in March on the promise of 77-cents-a-share earnings, fell on the reality of 78 cents. The stock closed at $150, down $6.625. C2.
 
Worries in the Dot-Com World
The recent tumble in technology stocks hasn't just unnerved investors -- it has made some employees in the thick of the dot-com whirlwind look warily over their shoulders. In the much-heralded exodus from old-line companies to dot-com start-ups, some have found great wealth, but others are finding the promised land does not offer the riches or satisfaction they had expected. A1.
 
Greenspan Offers View on Stocks
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that in his view investors have been "groping" for the proper valuations of stocks, especially those of technology companies. In an appearance on Capitol Hill, Mr. Greenspan also urged Congress and regulators not to overreact to technology-driven changes in the ways that stocks are traded. C2.
 
3-Way Aluminum Deal Collapses
Alcan Aluminium of Canada abandoned plans to merge with Pechiney of France but said it still intended to buy Algroup of Switzerland. The failure of the proposed $17 billion three-way deal came after European regulators objected to the dominance that the planned combination would have exerted. C4.
 
British Telecom Plans to Reorganize
In an effort to strengthen its slumping stock price, British Telecommunications announced a wide-ranging plan to reorganize into a half-dozen units and spin off its Yellow Pages business, with hopes of spinning off still other units. Peter Bonfield, the company's chief executive, argued that the changes would make the company more agile, allowing it to respond to increasing competition. C4.
 
Ad Executive Switches Destination
Just two weeks ago, Gary Topolewski, a leading creative advertising executive, agreed to leave the Southfield, Mich., office of FCB Worldwide for McCann-Erickson/A&L in San Francisco. But he unexpectedly announced that he would instead join the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of TBWA/Chiat/Day. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
Retail Sales and P.P.I. Increase
Retail sales increased 0.4 percent in March, to a seasonally adjusted $269.2 billion, while soaring energy costs caused the Producer Price Index, which measures wholesale prices, to jump 1 percent last month. C6.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,923 down 201.58
Nasdaq composite -- 3,676.78 down 92.85
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.79% down 0.02
The euro -- $0.9542 down 0.0025
The dollar -- 105.83yen down 0.03
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Consumer Price Index and Industrial Production since Sept.
 
Graph tracks General Electric's share price since Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (81%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (81%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (81%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (95%); RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (87%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STARTUPS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); DIRECTORY & DATABASE PUBLISHING (69%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (54%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



346 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Congress Adopts Pared-Down Budget Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Congress gave final approval tonight to a $1.87 trillion Republican budget outline for next year that includes tax reductions and cuts in many domestic programs, setting up an election-year showdown with Democrats over how the nation should put its current prosperity to use.
Even before the House and Senate passed the measure in largely party-line votes, President Clinton said the Republican approach risked squandering what he called "this magic moment of possibility." 
 Speaking to the American Society of Newspaper Editors here, Mr. Clinton said the insistence by Republicans on big tax cuts would require unacceptably deep cuts in programs affecting "everything from reducing class size to cleaning up toxic waste dumps to putting more police on our streets," and could ultimately mean a return to budget deficits.
Most of Mr. Clinton's comments were aimed at Republicans in Congress, but he also made clear that he intended to hammer away in coming months at the tax-and- spending proposals being laid out by their party's presumptive presidential nominee, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
Mr. Bush has called for a tax cut of $483 billion over five years, and this week proposed a $35 billion plan to help low- and moderate-income people purchase health insurance. The tax cut would swell to more than $1 trillion over a decade.
The budget resolution adopted by Congress today, which worked out small differences between versions passed earlier by the House and Senate, calls for at least $150 billion in tax cuts over five years and perhaps as much as $175 billion.
It increases spending on the Pentagon and education, provides extra aid to farmers, cuts most domestic programs after taking account of inflation and sets aside at least $20 billion to help establish prescription-drug coverage within Medicare.
The vote on the budget in the House was 220 to 208. The vote in the Senate was 50 to 48.
"Today we have a responsible and balanced budget, which keeps America on the right track," said House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois.
But as the Republicans moved ahead with the plan, which serves as an outline for the enactment of specific tax and spending bills and is not subject to a veto, they were set back in their efforts to pass a centerpiece of their tax-cutting package.
On a procedural vote, Senate Democrats blocked a Republican bill that would give a tax cut to married couples. Democrats said that while they favored efforts to end the so-called marriage penalty that results in many two-income couples paying a bigger tax bill than if they were single, the Republican proposal, valued at $248 billion over five years, was excessive.
The vote left the bill in limbo. A similar measure has already passed the House.
In his address, Mr. Clinton said he had learned when he put together his first budget, in 1993, that fiscal responsibility requires making tough choices about spending. But he said the Republican proposals this year are built on completely unrealistic assumptions that spending will be cut substantially.
Mr. Clinton said the Republicans were going to run into a problem with their budget arithmetic, just as they did in the 1980's, when President Reagan pushed through big tax cuts, and budget deficits began rising rapidly.
"This year, from Capitol Hill to the campaign trail, we are hearing positive statements about investing in health care, in prescription-drug coverage, in education," Mr. Clinton said, referring to Republican proposals.
"But after a trillion dollar tax cut -- and I believe the one they are running on this year is even bigger -- there will be no room left for these investments, or for saving Social Security and Medicare, unless we are prepared to go back to the bad old days of deficits," the president said.
Mr. Clinton said Congress should adopt his plan to use some of the interest savings from reducing the national debt to shore up Social Security and Medicare, both of which face financial problems in coming decades as the population ages.
There is little prospect, however, for any action on Social Security this year. Congress will now shift its attention to passing spending bills. Republicans have found it difficult in the last several years to remain within the spending targets set out in their own budget plans. And at the end of each of the last several years they have been forced to negotiate with Mr. Clinton, who has vetoed all their big tax bills and extracted more spending from them.
Both sides expect much the same thing to happen this year, with the stakes increased by the presidential race and the effort by Democrats to regain control of the House.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the House version of the budget passed in Washington, the majority leader, Dick Armey, left, and the speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, tallied what they called Republican accomplishments. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF ILLINOIS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF ILLINOIS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION BUDGETS (93%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEDICARE (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); MARRIAGE (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



347 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: Some Enticed by Dot-Coms Now Have Second Thoughts

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON and KATIE HAFNER 

 BODY:
The recent tumble in technology stocks hasn't just unnerved investors -- it has made some employees in the thick of the dot-com whirlwind look warily over their shoulders.
At a party on Saturday in San Francisco, the room buzzed as a group of Stanford University business graduates, class of '99, commiserated about all the wealth they had lost in the market. Margie Backstrom, one partygoer, told of a gathering weeks earlier to celebrate the vesting of a friend's stock options. While such events usually have a festive air, Ms. Backstrom said, the woman bemoaned the fact that her options amounted to far less than expected. Another friend has watched his company's stock plummet more than 60 percent since Jan. 1; his options are now worthless, his prospects unclear. 
 "People are questioning whether they made a mistake by giving up the security of a big salary for all those options that aren't worth much anymore," said Ms. Backstrom, who is immune to market gyrations so far because the Internet company she works for is still private. Her friends, she added, wonder "whether it was such a good idea to not go to the Morgan Stanleys of the world."
In the much-heralded exodus from old-line companies to dot-com start-ups in recent years, while some voyagers have found great wealth, others are finding the promised land does not offer the riches or satisfaction they had expected. Not everyone finds it easy to adjust to bosses who will not focus, work spaces that double as kennels and a culture in which self-conscious jollity comes at the expense of real work. Others are recognizing that part of the challenge these days is turning traditional concerns into new-economy companies. Those who stay can help their employers think like dot-coms.
And some, in the end, decide the toll they were asked to pay for Internet riches is too high.
"The downdraft in the market, if it continues, will cause people to move away from the new economy to more stable companies," said James Citrin, a headhunter at Spencer Stuart in Stamford, Conn. Severance packages have already become a hot topic, he said. And last week, with a prospective employer's preoffering valuation down, one client requested more options before taking a job. "The stock market and the talent market are inexorably linked," Mr. Citrin added.
Already anecdotal evidence suggests that the dot-com luster is fading. Consider Tsan Merritt-Poree. She was general counsel for a new Web site but left in January after repeated problems with computers and fax machines. Or Allison Johnson, who stayed at Hewlett-Packard because she thought she could have a bigger impact there.
Isaac Lasky, a 55-year-old consultant in Denver, said he was burned by a telecommunications start-up in December. This week, he said, "I would much rather be unemployed than involved with a shaky dot-com."
To be sure, it is too soon to say there is a clear exodus from companies that have built the new economy. Investment banking firms cannot seem to give employees enough casual-dress days and free cappuccinos to keep them at their desks. And for many who have jumped to dot-coms already, it has become a way of life, said Daniel DiCaro, a veteran of many technology start-ups and now managing director of Gray Drake Partners, a consulting firm in Mount Prospect, Ill.
"Most people, when they get that fever, it's hard to shake," he said. "It may burn people out, but you just can't get that when you're in a more traditional job."
But if the Internet generation, whose rewards rise and fall on options, faces many more weeks like this, with the Nasdaq index plunging 17 percent in four days, all that could change. Many dot-com deserters -- particularly those who join the ranks of newly public companies which continue to lose money -- are lured back to established companies, mainly in technology.
At Cisco Systems, which rivals Microsoft in size, resumes for certain marketing jobs from dot-com defectors are up 10 to 20 percent in the past three months, said Larry Lang, a vice president. Just two weeks ago, after a spate of new hires from a few volatile start-ups, Mr. Lang thought to himself, "Aha, there is a pattern emerging here."
In the end, it may have been the dogs that ended Carla De Luca's dot-com career.
A year ago, Ms. De Luca, a former CNN producer, moved from Atlanta to California and took a job at Beyond.com, an e-commerce services provider which was based in Sunnyvale but has since moved to Santa Clara. She quickly put together an ambitious plan for hiring people to write about the site's wares. But she grew frustrated at the time it was taking to put it into action. "It seemed indefinite to me when it would materialize," she said.
Top executives, she said, spent a lot of time spinning their wheels in endless meetings. But what really bothered her was the atmosphere of mandatory fun. Employees were told that if they wanted to have a meeting over a game of Ping-Pong, they should. And a "dogs welcome" policy turned the office into a near-kennel.
Ms. De Luca lasted four months, leaving behind a pile of stock options when she quit in May.
"There was certainly an emphasis on camaraderie and fun and a lot of team building and bonding, which I'm all for," Ms. De Luca said. "But often I felt that it was at the expense of some good work getting done."
Many people do just fine in dot-com land, she said, but she prefers the stability and the ample resources at her new job. "The corporate culture and the right fit for me is really important," she said.
A Beyond.com spokeswoman, Laura Fulda, would not address Ms. De Luca's comments but did say, "When you go to an Internet start-up you can expect the unexpected, that's for sure."
The company has gone through hard times. In January, the chief executive quit and 20 percent of the staff was laid off in a restructuring. In the fall, the company moved. And the dogs were banished. Yesterday, the company's stock price ended at $2.8125, an all-time low closing price.
A common argument among the dot-com cognoscenti is that employees can have a greater impact at a start-up.
But resources at small companies are slim, and this can wreak havoc with those used to an army of secretaries and support staff. Ms. Merritt-Poree, a 37-year-old lawyer, took a job late last year as general counsel with NetNoir.com. It did not take long to realize the fit was less than ideal. She complained that the fax machine was always busy and, when she asked for her own printer to receive faxes, did not get it. Instead she brought one from home and kept it on her desk to guard confidential faxes regarding company financings.
Her e-mail at times did not work, she said, so she got a private account. But the final straw was when her computer broke down in December and she could not get access to the Internet for nearly a week. She left the office, telling a colleague to keep tabs on the repair: "Here's my cell phone number. Call me when it is done."
Ms. Merritt-Poree talked to her old boss at Cooley Godward, a San Francisco law firm, and asked if she could come back. She did in January.
E. David Ellington, who founded NetNoir in January 1995, said the problems Ms. Merritt-Poree had were resolved, and her successor had thrived. Some of the problems, he said, were because the company was moving to different offices. "It was a very bumpy two-month period over a five-year history," he added. "I understand her frustrations, but they were frustrations expressed by others, too. The others have stayed."
Ms. Merritt-Poree does not regret leaving, or giving up a generous options package. "My resolve is strengthened that you should do this for love, not money," she said.
Some executives stay behind, comforted by the security of a large organization and attracted to helping it transform into a new-economy player.
In September, Allison Johnson, a 39-year-old Hewlett-Packard vice-president, was offered a rare opportunity: becoming a founding partner -- employee No. 6 -- at Loudcloud Inc., which helps speed the growth of Internet start-ups by managing all their computing needs.
Loudcloud is the brainchild of Marc Andreessen and a few others from Netscape. Ms. Johnson resigned from Hewlett-Packard within two weeks of being asked. But the day before she was to leave, Hewlett-Packard announced a major restructuring, and she had second thoughts.
While deciding, she said, she "took the money issue off the table." Staying at Hewlett-Packard meant living comfortably, while going to Loudcloud could bring great riches.
But Ms. Johnson said it came down to this: "Where do you have the opportunity to have a giant impact?" The answer, she decided, was at Hewlett-Packard, which is strengthening its Internet presence.
Money was not the issue in talks with Hewlett-Packard, she said. "It was more the sense that, 'Look, this is what we're going to do, and we want you to be part of this team.' "
Ms. Johnson says she has not regretted her decision for one minute, though she does wonder how she will feel the day Loudcloud goes public.
For the most part, employers are only too happy to take defectors back. "We welcome returnees with open arms," said Katie Cotton, spokeswoman at Apple Computer.
So eager is Autodesk, a large software company in San Rafael, Calif., that it even sends a postcard to former employees a few months after they leave, asking if the grass is really greener.
"We want to send the message that good employees are always welcome back," said Fred Kohler, a manager of human resources at Autodesk, which has started giving out more frequent bonuses and options.
Wall Street may be the exception. Publicly, most companies say returnees are welcome. But privately executives bristle at the notion of watching high-priced talent waltz out the door only to return if things go sour. "We cannot send the message that you can leave at no cost," one executive said. "People have to feel that if they leave they are toast."
The new model for those who want both stability and the charge of a dot-com is a dot-com linked to an old-economy corporation. James Breyer, a partner at the venture firm of Accel Partners in Palo Alto, Calif., said he had received several inquiries lately from employees interested in Walmart.com, the partnership between Wal-Mart Stores and Accel.
The decision may rest with where employees can be most content. Just ask Ms. De Luca. Many people she knows are still chasing the dot-com dream, but she's not convinced they are terribly happy. "When you're working all the time you really have to love what you're doing," she said. "I don't feel that everyone I'm talking to is necessarily loving all the time they're putting in."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS; WAGES AND SALARIES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS STOCK OPTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STARTUPS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BONDS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); LAWYERS (60%); WEB SITES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M; HAFNER, KATIE MARGIE BACKSTROM (69%); CARLA DE LUCA (57%); LARRY F LANG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



348 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Congress Agrees to $7.1 Billion in Farm Aid

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Congress once again is spreading billions of dollars to fertilize American agribusiness. House and Senate negotiators agreed this week to a new $7.1 billion bailout for farmers. But those farm subsidies were supposed to be drying up by now.
Four years ago, the Republican-led Congress proclaimed an end to what its speaker, Newt Gingrich, called the "East German socialist" farm programs of the New Deal. Congress passed, and President Clinton signed, the Republicans' Freedom to Farm Act. 
 The new farm law pledged to phase out many of the government's Depression-era price-support programs and intended to wean farmers from subsidies by 2002. The idea was that farmers would flourish in an unfettered market.
But Congress has since repeatedly passed emergency increases in spending for agriculture. And the subsidies have been an unfailing spring, now flowing faster than ever.
Government payments to American agriculture have tripled since the act was passed, to a record $22.7 billion in 1999. The new $7.1 billion approved on Wednesday will be spent in the fall.
Despite the huge government subsidies, farm income will fall below $50 billion this year for the first time since 1986, the Agriculture Department said. The law did not change the fact that much of the money goes to huge operations growing basic commodity crops like corn, wheat and soybeans for cattle fodder and chicken feed. The subsidies have fueled huge surpluses, sending prices plummeting, and the new law has not helped that situation, either.
"Freedom to Farm was supposed to revolutionize farm policy, but it has pointed out the failures of farm policy," Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said in an interview.
The new farm law did not change the essence of that policy, which forces the farmer to get big or get out, said Chuck Hassebrook, project director for the Center for Rural Affairs, a nonprofit advocacy group in Walthill, Neb., that works for family farms and rural communities.
Above all, the law did not stop Congress from writing giant checks to giant farms, subsidizing multibillion-dollar conglomerates while small farmers struggle to get by, Mr. Hassebrook said.
"The Freedom to Farm act embraced and in fact worsened Congress's tendency to say the bigger and richer you are, the more money you get," he said. "Congress has subsidized big operations and driven smaller farms out of business."
Mr. Glickman does not dispute that. "There's no question that a big chunk of payments go to larger producers," the secretary said. "The more pounds you produce, the more money you get. Congress has always resisted changing that."
The more the big farms produce, the more government money they get, and the more money they get, the more they produce. This contributes to a huge oversupply in basic commodities. And the oversupply drives prices down. The big agribusinesses that buy and process commodities like low prices. Small farmers do not.
"All subsidies do in the long run is induce more supply," said Bruce A. Babcock, an agricultural economist at Iowa State University. "We increase supply when we have oversupply. We do not have a coherent policy. It is not designed to help the small dirt farmer; the biggest gain is obtained by the largest farmer.
"But everyone finds it politically expedient to think they're doing something for the family farmer. It still serves a purpose to have that myth, the myth of the small family farmer who needs government help."
A drought is predicted this year, and already Congress has passed a bill, which the Clinton administration supports, that will sharply increase crop insurance payments.
Last year, there was a drought, too. Congress used it to justify a record $8.7 billion emergency increase in farm subsidies. But there were record harvests in basic commodities, rain or no rain.
Now, due largely to those enormous harvests and a national glut, the Agriculture Department has forecast that this year the price of soybeans will be the lowest in 27 years and the price of wheat and corn the lowest in 13 years.
Over the years, stepped-up subsidies have not helped the average farmer flourish. The farmer received 37 percent of the dollar spent at the supermarket in 1980, Mr. Glickman said; today, the farmer receives 22 cents. Corporate food processors and middlemen take an ever-larger share.
Mr. Hassebrook said, "The farmer's share of the profit in the food system is shrinking so fast that at this rate in 2030 it will be zero."
The subsidies have helped the biggest producers, packers and processors in an increasingly industrialized agricultural system dominated by fewer and fewer corporations. A handful of companies now control an overwhelming share of the nation's beef, poultry and pork production, as well as production of the wheat, corn and soybeans that fatten the cattle, chickens and pigs.
"The big players avoid day-to-day competition by locking up markets, and by dealing only with other big players," said Keith Collins, the Agriculture Department's chief economist. "The very big players are using their market power to gain dominance." This kind of clout may be prohibited by antitrust laws, Mr. Collins said, but prosecutions are rare.
Mr. Glickman said there were changes afoot that would help small farmers, like the growing realization that "you can make more money growing 30 acres of tomatoes and selling them to a restaurant than by growing 1,500 acres of wheat" for a corporation.
The changes include a revival of farmers' markets and agricultural marketing cooperatives, and, above all, the rapid growth of organic farming, now a $6 billion-a-year business, Mr. Glickman said.
"No matter what we've done, though it's helped keep people in business, it hasn't stemmed the tide of consolidation and concentration, of people leaving agriculture, selling off the farm for a strip shopping center," he said. "Farm policy has been focused on commodities. In fact, the problems are much much bigger."
Mr. Glickman said it might be that the desire of the White House and Congress to keep the subsidies flowing for big agribusiness is too great for changes anytime soon.
Overhauling farm policy, Mr. Collins said, is "like pushing the stone uphill." "Incredibly powerful economic forces are driving the changes that have occurred," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Farm Subsidies Continue"
Although the 1996 Freedom to Farm Act was intended in part to reduce federal subsidies to farmers, it has not had that effect.
 
The chart shows the Net Cash Farm Income and the Federal Subsidy Payments over the last ten years.
 
1999 figures are preliminary; 2000 figures are estimates.
(Source: Department of Agriculture) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEAL CONGRESS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEAL CONGRESS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FARMERS AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (94%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); FACTORY FARMS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



349 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Summers Says Growth Is Trade Gap Solution

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
The best way for the United States to reduce its trade deficit is for Europe and Japan to increase growth, Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said today.
The International Monetary Fund has called the United States trade deficit, which widened to a record $99.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 1999 and a record $338.9 billion for the full year, the biggest threat to the global economy. 
 Mr. Summers said the deficit was "a matter of concern," but he also said the solution was for other countries to increase growth, raising their appetite for goods made in the United States.
"It will be healthier for the world economy, as well as for the United States economy, for the adjustment to take place through increased exports, rather than reduced imports," Mr. Summers said at a news conference before the meeting this weekend of the seven leading industrial nations. "We believe the global expansion needs to be balanced up, not balanced down."
Europe must do more to increase structural reform, he suggested, while Japan must continue the fiscal stimulus of the last few years. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TRENDS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



350 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests;
Rudy's Identity Crisis

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
Our topic for today is "Rudy Giuliani and the Senate: A Cry for Help."
People, this is a man fraught with inner turmoil. He loves being mayor of New York City -- he'd try to do it forever if it weren't for term limits. Being president would be nice too, of course. Commander of NATO might be O.K., if they were willing to overlook that draft exemption. 
 But the Senate is the job that's open, and although Mr. Giuliani has raised pots and pots of money for his campaign, he appears about as interested in being a legislator as he is in becoming a pastry chef.
One of the ways you can tell whether a New York City politician is really committed to running for higher office is by his or her willingness to campaign upstate. Those of us who live in the metropolitan area and are particularly shallow tend to regard upstate as a combination of half-empty strip malls and attractive but hard-to-reach scenery.
Hillary Clinton, who has not lived here long enough to absorb local prejudices, really likes it up there. "Last week I was in Binghamton and Rochester and Corning and Albany, and I'm back in Albany today. I'll be back in Buffalo tomorrow," she said brightly this week. (For those of you who read the Harry Potter books, Mrs. Clinton as a candidate is Hermione Granger. She wants to sign up for all the courses, and if there's a scheduling conflict, she'll replicate.)
There's no actual proof Mr. Giuliani is a downstate snob who hates driving three hours to have dinner at a place where the steak comes wrapped in cheese. But it is an absolute fact that his associates have found it almost impossible to drag him up north.
Last week the mayor's staff announced he would travel to Rochester on Wednesday to have lunch with Republican women. But on Tuesday Mr. Giuliani canceled the trip, saying he wanted to go to the Yankees' home opening game instead.
Never called his upstate hosts, never apologized. The county's Republican chairman had to learn about the cancellation from reporters. His wife, who organized the event, had to track down 400 guests and tell them not to come.
"Opening Day is something of great significance to me," the mayor said. ". . . you can raise money any time."
Now people, this is clearly the sound of a conflicted soul. Or an incredible jerk.
"He's setting himself up to announce that the city needs him so desperately he's going to have to forgo the race," predicted former Mayor Ed Koch. Mr. Koch once knocked himself out of a race for governor by telling Playboy that if you live upstate you have to "drive 20 miles to buy a gingham dress or a Sears, Roebuck suit." He also made uncomplimentary, but accurate, comments about the quality of the restaurants.
"Unconsciously, maybe I didn't want to be governor," he said. "Anyway, it worked out for the best. I'd have been so unhappy in Albany, I'd have come home every night."
Upstate New York is a perpetual economic basket case, the sort of place where politicians keep hoping a gambling casino might turn things around. Even the areas that are doing well have insecurity complexes. (The Syracuse Chamber of Commerce calls its annual retreat an "advance" to combat negative thinking.)
Mrs. Clinton, as you might expect, has a four-part strategy for reviving the economy, including subsections on entrepreneurial incubators and the alternative-fuels tax credit. As a test, I challenged her to say something optimistic about Utica, and she went on for some time about demolition incentives to level parts of the downtown, followed by a paean to residents' "gritty persistence to keep trying."
Her opponent is not into position papers. "The mayor has a long record of job creation," said a campaign spokesman when asked for the Giuliani plan for economic development upstate. "The same kinds of things he did for New York City he could do for the state."
But being a senator is not like being mayor, and upstate is most definitely not like New York City. Its problems can't be solved by making people behave. No wonder the mayor doesn't want to go there.
He can probably adapt, but I think we're talking long-term therapy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TERM LIMITS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); RETAILERS (52%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



351 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Parsing the Protests

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Washington is now playing host to protests against the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, globalization and free trade. If this were a baseball game, someone would sell programs to help follow the action. Here's how mine would read.
Facts you won't hear: You will hear much blarney in coming days. Fortunately, a major study of how globalization has affected 34 developed and developing countries was just published by the consulting firm A. T. Kearney. It concludes what economists have long known: "Overall, countries integrating rapidly with the world economy have fared better than those integrating more slowly . . . because the fastest globalizing countries have enjoyed rates of economic growth that averaged 30 to 50 percent higher over the past 20 years. The same countries also enjoyed greater political freedom . . . more social spending and received higher scores on the U.N. Human Development Index, an indicator of longevity, literacy and standard of living." 
 On the downside, the report found, "rapid globalizers have witnessed a growing gap between rich and poor . . . rising corruption and higher levels of environmental pollution." The report adds, though, that while some 34 percent of the world's population lived in absolute poverty in 1980, by 1990 that number had dropped by more than half. "In other words, 1.4 billion people escaped absolute poverty as a result of economic growth associated with globalization."
Whom to root for: There are many activists gathered in Washington who understand that globalization has its upsides and downsides, and they have come not to destroy this system but to improve it -- by agitating for the World Bank to be more sensitive to the environment in its building projects, by urging rich countries to write off the debts of the poorest countries, and by urging the I.M.F. to be more open to alternative, possibly less harsh remedies for rescuing countries in financial distress. All worthy issues.
Whom to root against: Root against the economic quacks peddling conspiracy theories about globalization; the anti-free-trade extremists, such as Ralph Nader's group, Public Citizen; the protectionist trade unions; and the anarchists. These groups deserve to be called by their real name: "The Coalition to Keep the World's Poor People Poor."
These characters are fighting free trade. But they can't point to a single country that has flourished, or upgraded its living or worker standards, without free trade and integration. And they offer the third world no coherent plan for how to develop and preserve the environment. Their only plan is that developing countries stop developing. This coalition is supported by U.S. unions that have launched a protectionist jihad against more free trade with the developing world, for fear of competition. The unions don't want to say that out loud -- so they tell you they are for free trade with countries that get their worker standards up.
Yeah, sure. Unite, the reactionary garment union, is currently blocking a compromise bill aimed at giving the poorest countries in Africa duty-free access to the U.S. apparel market, even though this bill would link these trade benefits to improved worker standards. After Cambodia made an unprecedented effort to improve its worker standards -- in order to win greater access to the U.S. apparel market -- Unite still opposed increases in Cambodia's quota, citing areas where Cambodia wasn't perfect. Read the fascinating Jan. 10 piece in The New Republic entitled "The Man Behind the Anti-Free-Trade Revolt." It's about the relationship between Ralph Nader's and Lori Wallach's Public Citizen group and Roger Milliken, the far-right billionaire textile factory owner -- one of America's legendary union-busters and a longtime backdoor funder of protectionist groups. Nice company.
There's nothing wrong with unions or owners protecting their interests -- it's just when they do it in the name of helping the poor that's contemptible. So as you watch this demo, give your heart to those who not only care about the poor and the rain forest but have real ideas of how we can help both grow in a more integrated world. And give the back of your hand to those who pose as friends of the downtrodden but whose real goal is to take care of themselves and keep the poor poor. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BASEBALL (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); RIOTS (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L RALPH NADER (72%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



352 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Company Aims to Reap the Wind As a Clean Source of Electricity

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
On two windswept farms 80 miles west of Albany, construction is scheduled to begin today on seven towering windmills, each as tall and broad as a football field stood on its end, that together will constitute the largest effort in the East to turn energy in the turbulent air into electricity.
Wind farms have already sprung up in the Midwest, California and other places with open spaces and strong breezes, but most of them have been built by utilities, with the construction costs passed along in electric bills. 
 In contrast, the $16 million wind project planned for Madison, N.Y., a rural town of 2,800 people, is being built on speculation, without a guaranteed set of customers, by PG&E Generating, which owns a fleet of conventional coal- and gas-powered plants and some hydroelectric dams around the country and sells power on the open market.
The customers for the power from the Madison wind farm are expected to be companies and institutions, like universities, that are willing to tack on an additional 5 or 10 percent to electric bills in return for being able to say they are using some power generated without pollution, said Christopher R. Sauer, a senior vice president of PG&E Generating, which is based in Bethesda, Md.
While local officials and the farmers who have leased land for the project expect it to revive the local economy, the broader goal, company officials said, is to supply and nurture the nascent American market for "green power," electricity produced without pollution or the hazards of nuclear power.
Over the last 20 years, improved technology has cut the cost of power from wind turbines by more than 80 percent, energy experts say, from about 38 cents a kilowatt-hour to 3 to 6 cents a kilowatt-hour.
It is still more costly than power from conventional sources, which is often less than 3 cents a kilowatt-hour, but there is rising demand for power produced with no pollution, even if it costs more.
Just as car companies are finding the need to build electric cars while still churning out Cadillacs and Lincoln Navigators, so, too, are power producers trying to cater to every part of their market.
And for this environmental market, there is no source purer than the wind. "It's the greenest of the green," Mr. Sauer said.
The project benefits from some public aid. New York State's Energy Research and Development Authority awarded a $2 million grant for initial research, and the company, by investing in wind power, gains a federal tax break.
But it is still one of the first private-sector experiments in the East trying to create a nonpolluting energy source and build demand for the product: guilt-free electrons.
"It's our money that's at risk here," Mr. Sauer said. Mr. Sauer said that PG&E Generating was close to signing deals with several customers, but declined to name them while negotiations were under way.
Together, the turbines in Madison will generate 11.5 megawatts, enough power to supply 5,000 average-size homes, company officials said.
The wind-power project in Madison is also distinguished by the size of the turbines, which are built by Vestas Wind Systems, a Danish company. The 100-foot blades of each of the windmills, whooshing slowly through the air as cows graze far below, will reach 328 feet high, as tall as a 32-story building.
Only one other wind project in the United States, in Texas, uses the same size turbines, although they are in fairly wide use in Europe.
An American branch of Vestas Wind Power is planning similar wind farms in other parts of central New York, state energy officials said.
So far, only California and Pennsylvania have significant demand from homeowners or businesses that want cleanly produced electricity. But New Jersey, New York and several other states are poised to join them, energy experts say.
The United States energy secretary, Bill Richardson, who plans to attend a groundbreaking ceremony for the windmills today, said last night that the time was right for a host of such projects.
"I'm confident that this is the beginning of major investments in wind energy across the Northeast," he said.
Ashok Gupta, an economist for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private conservation group, said that with costs for wind power dropping and restrictions on pollution from old-style power plants growing, almost all power producers will eventually offer cleanly generated electricity along with power from conventional sources.
"Eventually, all power sellers will have a green product to offer, like cereal companies that offer 'junk' and 'health' cereals," Mr. Gupta said.
The market for wind power, with its environmental cachet, is spreading. Last year, the New Belgium Brewing Company, in Fort Collins, Colo., signed an agreement with its regional utility to buy power produced at a windmill being built nearby.
The brewery's 70 employees voted unanimously for the change, even though it would cut into their bonuses, brewery officials said.
In central New York, where the economy -- agriculture in particular -- has been ailing for many years, the project is seen as a significant boon by local officials, who predict that there will be an influx of tourists curious to see the computer-controlled turbines.
As another side benefit, the town of Madison and the local school district will each get $30,000 a year for 15 years from the power company as payments in lieu of taxes.
The farmers who have leased their land for the wind project said the income should help them stay in business, essentially providing a new cash crop.
Carl Stone, who with his brother owns one of the farms, said it would be a little strange to have his herds ranging while giant blades slowly sliced the sky overhead.
"The wind was just a part of my life all my life," he said yesterday. "Now it may keep us in business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a $16 million windmill power project on two farms in Madison, N.Y. (Vestas Wind Systems)(pg. B1)
 
Map of New York shows location of Madison: Construction is to begin today on a wind project in Madison, N.Y. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (92%); PCG (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PG&E GENERATING PG&E CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PG&E GENERATING

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON (NY); EASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WINDMILLS; AIR POLLUTION WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); WIND ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C CHRISTOPHER R SAUER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



353 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Reissue of Gore Book May Be a Two-Edged Sword

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore's 1992 environmental credo, "Earth in the Balance," is being reissued next week in conjunction with the 30th anniversary of Earth Day, and Republicans say they could not be happier.
In a new foreword, Mr. Gore writes that "the environment should be a central issue in the year 2000" and argues that the threat of global warming, the focus of his book, has only become more apparent and more urgent since he wrote it. 
 Mr. Gore acknowledges that his adversaries consider him "too environmental" in the book but he says he welcomes the accusation. He even provides a helpful footnote directing critics to the most controversial suggestion in the book, calling for a worldwide effort aimed at "eliminating the internal combustion engine over, say, a 25-year period."
Since the book was first published by Houghton Mifflin, just months before Mr. Gore became the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, Republicans and conservatives have viewed "Earth in the Balance" as rich political fodder.
Many can quote chapter and verse about Mr. Gore's rallying cry to try to replace the internal combustion engine, his plea for a worldwide Marshall Plan to deal with environmental problems and his repeated plea to make "the effort to save the global environment the central organizing principle of our civilization."
Democrats and Mr. Gore's allies in the environmental movement counter that "Earth in the Balance" simply shows that Mr. Gore was ahead of his time. They maintain that concerns over issues like global warming have become so solidly mainstream, so middle-class American, that Republicans raise them only at their own risk.
For example, Dan Weiss, political director of the Sierra Club, said his organization recently asked voters in focus groups in Michigan and New Jersey about Mr. Gore's comment on the internal combustion engine, and the general reaction was that it was a good idea but unlikely to come about. Still, the fact that Democrats and their allies are studying the political implications of "Earth in the Balance" so intensely suggests the struggles to come.
A spokesman for the campaign of the apparent Republican nominee, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, offered a relatively low-key response to the reissue. "Al Gore will have plenty more time to become an even better author beginning in 2001," said the spokesman, Ari Fleischer.
But elsewhere in the party, the attack is unstinting. Indeed, Republicans have a full-blown critique of the book that revolves around the accusation that Mr. Gore is not an environmentalist, but an environmental extremist.
"Like Gore's nearly quarter-century of public life, 'Earth in the Balance' is plagued by a combination of liberalism, elitism, hypocrisy and hyperbole, punctuated by an unhealthy extremism," assert materials prepared by a Republican research analyst developing a critique of the book.
"When Al Gore writes that 'we must make the rescue of the environment the central organizing principle of civilization,' Gore is saying that his governing philosophy would be influenced less by the need for jobs and new technologies than by Gore's personal environmental concerns," the document adds.
Clifford May, communications director of the Republican National Committee, said of Mr. Gore: "I think he'll be seen by anybody who reads his book as an environmental extremist -- somebody who wants gas prices to go up, somebody who wants to take middle-class people out of their S.U.V.'s and to prevent inner-city people from moving to the suburbs. And his view of America as a dysfunctional society should give everybody pause."
The committee has sold copies of the book "equipped with an environmentally safe, nonozone depleting candle to read it by."
And Grover Norquist, who heads a conservative group called Americans for Tax Reform, has devoted part of his group's Web site to quotations from "Earth in the Balance," interspersed with quotations from the manifesto written by Theodore J. Kaczynski, who pleaded guilty in 1998 to the Unabomb killings. The headline: "Did Al Gore Say It, or Was It the Unabomber?"
Laura Quinn, Mr. Gore's communications director, countered, "If the Republicans think the vice president is extreme because he's working with the Big Three auto makers to help them develop cleaner cars, if they think he's extreme because in the Clinton-Gore years we've had the cleanest environment in a generation with the longest economic expansion ever, then they're so far to the right they've fallen off a cliff."
In fact, the environmental issue is complicated for both sides. Pollsters in both parties say that environmentalism is now a "national value," and thus no candidate can afford to be perceived as "anti-environment."
As Robert Teeter, a pollster who was the chairman of President George Bush's 1992 re-election campaign, put it, "We're now 30 years after Earth Day, and there's a huge number of Americans who consider themselves environmentalists in one way or another."
Being considered sensitive on the environment is thus a threshold test of national credibility, and Democrats and their allies contend that the younger Mr. Bush will have trouble passing it.
Mr. Weiss, the Sierra Club official, asserts, "Republicans run a real risk every time they bring up the environment because it creates an opportunity to remind voters of Bush's terrible environmental record in Texas."
In his new foreword, Mr. Gore notes that since he wrote "Earth in the Balance," "Houston has taken over as the city with the worst air pollution in America."
But Mr. Teeter says that in an election dominated by middle-of-the-road voters, the one thing a candidate has to avoid is the image of extremism -- "on anything."
This helps explain the Republican strategy against Mr. Gore. And there is some irony here; in the primaries, Mr. Gore worried about losing support from some people active in the environmental movement who questioned his commitment to the cause.
In the midst of this partisan swirl is the publisher, Houghton Mifflin, which decided to reissue the book because "it was on the New York Times best-seller list for 28 weeks and it's become a classic," said a spokesman, Walter Vatter.
Mr. Vatter added that there were no other changes to the book besides the new foreword.
In that foreword, Mr. Gore strikes an unapologetic tone. On replacing the internal combustion engine in 25 years, Mr. Gore says that "it is possible, it neeeds to be done, it will create more jobs not destroy jobs."
"Earth in the Balance" has a strikingly reflective tone and is widely considered to be Mr. Gore's midlife crisis book, written when Mr. Gore was trying to recover from his disastrous 1988 campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination, while coping with the serious injuries of his son, who had been hit by a car.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore inspected a science experiment by Jessica Parker, left, and Katelyn Porter at a school in Charlotte, N.C., yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EARTH IN THE BALANCE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MARSHALL PLAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENVIRONMENT; EARTH DAY ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); WRITERS (77%); MILLENNIUM (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (51%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



354 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
For Clinton Corner, More Apartments

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A 102-unit apartment building is to rise this summer on West 50th Street off Eighth Avenue on a site that has been used as a parking lot since the 1970's. The building will be the third rental housing project to be developed on or near that corner in the Clinton section of Manhattan in the last two years.
The seven-story building, at 311 West 50th Street, will have studios and two-bedroom apartments, with 475 square feet to 1,000 square feet on average. Plans also include a 60-car parking garage and 5,200 square feet for medical offices, according to the developer, Levine Builders of Douglaston, Queens. Financing for the $25 million project is coming from the Bank of New York and the developer's equity. 
 It joins the two earlier rental buildings, which industry professionals said helped establish Eighth Avenue in the 50's as a residential address. One is the 292-unit, 26-story Longacre House at 50th Street and Eighth Avenue; the other, diagonally across the street on the east side of the avenue, is the 41-story, 550-apartment Gershwin.
The latest project is modest in comparison to its two neighbors because it is in the Clinton Special Preservation District, which extends from 43rd to 56th Street and from just west of Eighth Avenue to the midblock of 10th Avenue. The area's zoning requires that new buildings be no taller than seven stories and cover no more than 60 percent of the lot to blend with the low-rise structures that line Clinton's side streets.
Despite the restrictions, Jeffrey E. Levine, president of the development company bearing his name, said the project was economically viable for several reasons. Among them, he said, are the reasonable land price and the lower costs to construct a midrise structure. And since his company will develop and construct the project, "we will be able to build it more efficiently and with competitively priced units," he said.
Rents are expected to be $1,800 to $3,300 a month, which Mr. Levine said were less than those in high-rise structures in the area but more than those for apartments in walk-ups.
More importantly, he said, "the area obviously has been transformed into a residential area, and people are not only willing but eager to live there, close as it is to the theater district, Central Park and Midtown."
A strong housing market, along with the revival of 42nd Street to the south and the proposed redevelopment of the New York Coliseum site to the north at Columbus Circle, has brought renewed developer interest to the Eighth Avenue corridor in the 50's and up. In addition to the Longacre House and the Gershwin, another anchor is Worldwide Plaza, a mixed-use complex built in the 1980's. That project, which occupies the entire block between Eighth and Ninth Avenues and 49th and 50th Streets, has a residential component with 654 condominium units.
There are other residential projects under way or planned in the 50's, as well as in the greater Clinton neighborhood. Estimates from Community Board 4, which guides growth in the neighborhood, were that there were at least six projects in various stages of planning that would produce more than 1,000 residences in the next year and a half.
Meanwhile, leasing has remained steady and rents have increased, said Andrew S. Heiberger, president of Citi-Habitats, a residential brokerage in Manhattan. "The West 50's generally is considered a B-plus or A-minus neighborhood, but 50th Street is the strongest location within it," he said, noting that average annual rents are $51 a square foot. That puts rents for a typical 700-square-foot one-bedroom apartment at $2,800 to $3,200 a month.
The average per-square-foot rents at 311 West 50th Street will be $42.50. Nancy Packes, president of Feathered Nest, a rental brokerage in Manhattan, said the proposed building "will give people location without sticker shock." Ms. Packes, who is also the project's leasing consultant, said another factor in the building's favor was that 20 percent of the units, a requirement of the zoning, would have two bedrooms.
If a small building like this was being put up in an area where there was nothing else around, she said, it would be hard to lease. "Here," she said, "the market was made with the Longacre House and the Gershwin."
Mr. Levine said all those factors entered into his decision last May to buy the 50th Street site and design a building that complied with the zoning. Plans for the parking garage require a special permit from the City Planning Commission, and an application for it has been filed, said Michael T. Sillerman, a partner at the law firm of Rosenman & Colin, which represents the developer.
Complying with the zoning rules will produce a building that is longer than it is high. But it will have "an undulated facade of honey- and burgundy-colored brick to create the feeling of a number of smaller buildings," said James S. Davidson, design partner at the Manhattan firm of Schuman Lichtenstein Claman & Efron, the project's architect. It will, he added, "be a simple affair, enhanced by a polished granite base and minimum decorative trim, not unlike the architecture of the side-street buildings that line Clinton."
Occupancy is expected to begin by the end of 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a 102-unit apartment building planned on West 50th Street off Eighth Avenue in Manhattan. (Schuman Lichtenstein Claman & Efron Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEVINE BUILDERS BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); LONGACRE HOUSE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEVINE BUILDERS LONGACRE HOUSE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (55%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



355 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Nielsen Releases Local Internet Data

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOT 

 BODY:
The first monthly data on Internet use in the 20 largest local markets from Nielsen Net Ratings, an Internet measurement service, show interesting variations among different parts of the country.
In the study, compiled in February, four of the five top local markets with the largest percentage of people with Internet access were on the West Coast: San Francisco, with 61 percent; San Diego, 58 percent; Seattle, 55.9 percent; and Portland, Ore., 54 percent. The exception was Washington, at 56.1 percent. 
 In terms of Internet audiences, the total number of people online, the No. 1 market was New York, followed by Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Boston. San Diego had the highest average time spent online per person, at almost 11 hours and 16 minutes during the month. Nielsen Net Ratings, which continues to issue national Internet data, is a joint venture of Nielsen Media Research in New York and NetRatings Inc. in Milpitas, Calif.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: NTRT (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (86%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH; NETRATINGS INC NETRATINGS INC (84%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH; NETRATINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (86%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS INTERNET & WWW (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (88%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



356 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: New Problems With Welfare-to-Work

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration faces a new set of problems from the latest setback to its welfare-to-work program.
Welfare recipients who need help getting private-sector jobs can no longer be referred to Maximus, the Virginia company whose $104 million in contracts with the city were thrown out yesterday by a judge. The company, which was supposed to handle about 2,000 people a month, has suspended its operations in the city in response to the ruling. 
 Debra Sproles, a spokeswoman for the Human Resources Administration, said it was too soon to say what approach the city would take to handle those referrals in the short term. "We expect any adverse impact to be limited because we believe the appeal decision will reverse this decision," she said.
Public assistance recipients will still be required to work at city jobs like park cleanup and filing in exchange for their benefits.
But they may have difficulty making the move into private-sector jobs, because in anticipation of the large contracts with Maximus and other winning vendors, the city allowed old contracts for smaller-scale job training and placement programs to lapse over the last several months. Some of the losers in the contracting process that Maximus won were forced to close their doors months ago.
Maureen Bentley, assistant executive director of Fedcap, a nonprofit vocational agency that had run job placement programs in seven city welfare offices, said that those programs had been continued month-to-month for a while at the city's request, but that the last ones had ended on March 31 when the nonprofit group's lease ran out and much of its staff was hired away by the winning contractors.
Executives at several other nonprofit agencies complained that referrals of welfare recipients had slowed to a trickle late last year, apparently in anticipation of the new contracts.
The other winning vendors, including Curtis & Associates, a Nebraska-based profit-making rival of Maximus, are still gearing up to fulfill their own new contracts. Those contracts were delayed for weeks as the city comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, challenged the mayor's use of an award process that restricted competition.
"It would be silly for anyone to say there is going to be no disruption," said Dean Curtis, of Curtis & Associates, which has $34 million in contracts. "We will work with them to help them out, but our capacities at this point are pretty tight, so we'll have a hard time providing additional services with any quality."
He said that uncertainty over the contracts had prompted him to give his staff 10 days' notice, which he rescinded, and that he had lost an office lease when he hesitated to sign it.
Though the city estimated it would send 1,000 welfare recipients a month to Curtis, Mr. Curtis said referrals were running around 400, in part because of "bugs to be worked out" in the process. And the booming economy may be absorbing the more job-ready recipients without the contractors' help, he said.
Critics of the contracting process say it would be unfair to divide $104 million in Maximus contracts among other winning vendors.
"All we ask is for an equal playing field," said Glenn Pasanen, director of City Project, a budget watchdog organization that has called for all the contracts -- nearly $500 million worth -- to be rebid in a fully open and competitive way. The city could use short-term contracts for any clients needing immediate service, he said, "but the fair and proper thing to do is to quickly open up the $104 million worth of contracts to rebidding."
He added: "An open process means current contractors can expand and that contractors who lost have another chance."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had vigorously defended the contracting process as a speedier way to put public assistance recipients to work before they reach the federal five-year time limit on benefits.
Late last year Mr. Giuliani announced that he had fulfilled the pledge he made to end welfare as New York City knows it by shifting thousands of recipients into work, job training or treatment, and taking away benefits from the rest.
Mr. Giuliani said that all able-bodied welfare recipients without infant children were now either in jobs or taking steps to get them. His critics on the City Council immediately challenged his numbers, saying he counted recipients who had merely been referred for evaluation for work or other programs, like the programs thrown into confusion yesterday by the judge's ruling. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MAXIMUS (CO) CURTIS&ASSOCIATES (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAXIMUS (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; ETHICS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ETHICS (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PROPERTY LEASES (63%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (63%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DAVIS, WILLIAM J (JUSTICE) RUDOLPH W GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



357 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 42; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW;
Craigie Aitchison

BYLINE: By Ken Johnson 

 BODY:

 Ramis Barquet
 41 East 57th Street
 Manhattan
 Through May 6
Craigie Aitchison has had a distinguished enough painting career in England to earn a C.B.E. (Commander of the British Empire), but until now he has never had a solo exhibition in the United States. This uneven show of mostly recent works, including many little confectionery sketches, makes one wish for a more judiciously selected retrospective.
Born in 1926, Mr. Aitchison turned from law studies to art in the early 1950's. Inspired by early French Modernism and American Color Field painters of the 50's, he has always favored thin, broad areas of pure color, abbreviated, sometimes childlike imagery and a mood of poetic sweetness bordering on the saccharine. 
 The exhibition includes a number of crucifixions, one of the artist's favorite themes. In a five-and-a-half-foot-high canvas from 1979, a small cartoonish representation of an armless Christ on the cross is isolated against a barren but intensely colored landscape. In the orange ground, purple mountain and red sky, subtly mottled, rubbed-in paint calls to mind Mark Rothko or Milton Avery.
Mr. Aitchison is good when he abstracts from life, as in recent paperback-size still lifes made with Bonnardian economy. But he is best in portraiture. In a 1984 picture of a beautiful young Indian man, his features rendered in deftly brushed lines and his green jacket set off by a flat background of vibrant orange, there is a perfect balance of cool formality and warm intimacy. KEN JOHNSON
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); 

PERSON: AITCHISON, CRAIGIE; JOHNSON, KEN CRAIGIE AITCHISON (92%); RAMIS BARQUET (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



358 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 8;Column 4;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: By Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: FRENCH RULING
A Quebec court ruled that the government of the mainly French-speaking province has the right to limit use of English and to impose French as the dominant language on commercial signs. In reversing a lower court decision, Justice Paul-Marcel Bellavance of the Superior Court noted that Quebec's six million French speakers are surrounded by 300 million English speakers, saying, "Quebec is in a unique linguistic situation in the world." James Brooke (NYT)
 
COLOMBIA: LIMITED TRUCE
The second-largest leftist guerrilla group, the Army of National Liberation, has announced a limited 10-day Easter truce and said it would release the four-member crew of an Avianca Airlines flight hijacked a year ago. The truce will apply only to civilian targets. Larry Rohter (NYT) 

ECUADOR: AMNESTY PLEA
President Gustavo Noboa has petitioned Congress to grant an amnesty to more than 100 soldiers and civilians who took part in the coup that overthrew his predecessor, Jamil Mahuad, in January. Noting that the uprising "was not bloody," Mr. Noboa argued that a pardon would "help peace and tranquillity in our country." The proposal must be passed by a two-thirds vote. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
BRAZIL: SQUABBLING AIDES FIRED
A public dispute between the justice minister and Brazil's anti-drug czar over management of counter-narcotics policy has resulted in the firing of both men by President Fernando Henrique Cardoso. The two had been feuding over control of the federal police, who are increasingly being deployed in drug operations along Brazil's borders. Jose Gregori, above, the human rights secretary, becomes the third justice minister in less than a year. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
MEXICO: DRUG AGENTS SLAIN
In the stepup of a drug war at the United States border, three drug agents, including an army captain, were killed in Tijuana, said the head of Mexico's anti-drug operations. The agents were investigating a cocaine syndicate run by the Arellano Felix brothers, he said. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
IRELAND: PROTESTANT REJECTION
Orange Order marchers planning their first parade in Dublin since the 1930's next month will not be able to use a downtown church for a service, the Church of Ireland, the main Protestant body, said. Officials said it would reinforce a public perception that the church was linked to the militantly Protestant group, whose Ulster marches each summer offend many Catholics. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: TOO OLD TO SAVE
Citing a case in which a 67-year-old cancer patient found "inappropriate for resuscitation" on her medical record, the charity Age Concern said doctors in Britain's overcrowded hospitals are allowing elderly patients to die. Sheila Adam, the government's deputy chief medical officer, promised an investigation. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
SPAIN: BASQUE GETS 1,401 YEARS
A former member of the Basque separatist group E.T.A. was sentenced to 1,401 years in prison for his role in a 1986 bombing that killed 12 civil guards. Juan Manuel Soares Gamboa returned voluntarily from exile in 1995, and the court went easier on him than on four other rebels, each of whom was sentenced in 1989 to 2,232 years for the same incident. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
GREECE: CABINET IN OFFICE
Prime Minister Costas Simitis, left, and his 43 Socialist ministers took office promising to speed reforms in a bid to "hoist Greece to Europe's top." Mr. Simitis, who narrowly won re-election, retained the economy, defense and foreign affairs ministers, but introduced some new faces to meet campaign promises of renewal. Anthee Carassava (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: AMERICAN CHARGED AS SPY
A retired American naval intelligence officer accused of trying to buy Russian military secrets has been formally charged with spying. The American, Edmond Pope, could get up to 20 years in prison if convicted, officials said.
 Michael Wines (NYT)
 
BALTIC STATES: SUMMIT MEETING
Members of the 11-member Council of the Baltic Sea States opened a two-day conference in Kolding, Denmark, designed to make the region a major presence in Europe. Delegates stressed cooperation with Russia, but most tiptoed around the issue of the Chechen offensive. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
ETHIOPIA: FAMINE RULED OUT
President Meles Zenawi said he believed famine would be avoided now that other nations had pledged food for millions of people at risk of starvation. About half the 800,000 metric tons of the food needed has been promised. Ian Fisher (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
PAKISTAN: MILITANTS WARNED
Just days after gunmen killed 14 Shiite Muslims in a rural mosque, Interior Minister Moinuddin Haider said the army would be used to "crush" extremist groups if they attempt further violence. He criticized sectarian parties for teaching hate in their religious schools. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
HONG KONG: PRESS PROTEST
The Hong Kong Journalists Association and a pro-democracy group reacted angrily to a warning to local news media by a Beijing official not to report views advocating independence for Taiwan. The association said it was "shocked and disturbed." A dozen members of the pro-democracy Frontier group protested at government headquarters. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: AWACS SALE
Prime Minister Ehud Barak indicated in a news conference with President Jiang Zemin of China that Israel hopes to proceed with the sale of an Awacs-style plane to Beijing, adding that "we will keep discussing it with the Americans." In a meeting with Mr. Barak, President Clinton reiterated American objections to the sale. William A. Orme Jr. (NYT)
 
Compiled by Terence Neilan C4
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the World Briefing column last Friday about the threat of famine in Ethiopia misstated the title of Meles Zenawi. He is prime minister, not president.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (74%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (74%); QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ARMIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (86%); DRUG POLICY (86%); LINGUISTICS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); HIJACKING (75%); AMNESTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COUPS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); AIRLINES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); RELIGION (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); COCAINE (64%); CANCER (64%); AGING (60%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000



359 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Business Group Urges Delay in New Investments in Zimbabwe

BYLINE: By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, April 14

 BODY:
In a warning that underscores the widening reach of Zimbabwe's economic and political meltdown, the biggest business and trade organization in South Africa this week urged its 40,000 members to delay any new investment in the crisis-ridden neighbor.
Already, a number of South African companies with significant interests in Zimbabwe have taken steps to shield themselves from the escalating problems there, said Kevin Wakeford, the chief executive of the trade organization, the South African Chamber of Business. 
 Hundreds of farms in Zimbabwe have been raided in recent weeks by black squatters, raising concern about the state of the country's important agricultural sector and heightening fears about the deeply unsettled political situation.
The squatters, led by veterans of the 1970's guerrilla war against white minority rule, say they are reclaiming land stolen decades ago from their ancestors by white settlers. President Robert Mugabe, who has made little progress in redistributing land in his 20 years in power, has condoned the farm invasions despite a Zimbabwe court order against them. Mr. Mugabe considers the squatters disenfranchised peasants who make up most of the country's population and who have been the base of his party's power.
Trade with Zimbabwe, South Africa's largest trading partner in the region, makes up about 3.5 percent of South Africa's total exports and heavily favors South Africa. Still South Africa, with its far bigger economy, sees trade with its neighbor, though small in total volume compared with the European Union and the United States, as strategically important.
The economic troubles have hobbled that trade, in both directions. Zimbabwe has been short of cash, and after international donors accused the government of mismanagement and cut off loans, the shortage worsened.
Currency and credit problems have followed, and now the volatile atmosphere has added another obstacle, with traders in recent days finding it increasingly difficult to insure goods.
On Thursday, after days of futility, National Ingredients Supplies, a South African food processing company and a unit of Anglovaal Industries, finally found an underwriter for the $8 million of soybeans it bought earlier this year. Only Lloyd's of London was willing to insure the stockpile, much of it sitting in a silo on an occupied farm. The insurance will cost five times the normal price, said Steve Brooks, National's logistics manager.
Business leaders said such problems, if they persist, would erode all of southern Africa's reputation.
The depth of Zimbabwe's economic problems are reflected in the basic financial data on the country.
Inflation in Zimbabwe soared 70 percent last year and is projected at 65 percent this year, according to the World Bank. Gross domestic product growth was zero last year and is forecast to fall 1 percent this year. The fiscal deficit is growing, and the value of the Zimbabwe dollar has fallen by half in the last year.
Foreign exchange reserves have plunged, making it much harder for the country and its businesses to pay for imported goods, notably fuel.
African Oxygen, a South African producer and distributor of industrial gases and a unit of the BOC Group, sells supplies to a sister company, BOC Zimbabwe, and the effects of the foreign currency shortage have been severe, said Jimmy Marriott, executive director for industrial operations at African Oxygen.
"They are certainly not getting the level of foreign exchange that they used to in the past," he said. "It hasn't been available to them."
South Africa's Tongaat-Hulett Group, a large producer of sugar, employs 8,000 people in Zimbabwe and for the last three years has been sitting on plans for a $100 million expansion in Zimbabwe. The country's unpredictable land politics, the crumbling economy and now the breakdown of law and order have kept Tongaat-Hulett from moving forward with its plans, the company's chief executive, Cedric Savage, said.
"Ironically, it's still one of the best places to invest in agriculture," Mr. Savage said. "It's the lowest cost producer of sugar in the world. It's a place where economically you'd want to invest money, but politically, just about every political action taken discourages that." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (63%); 

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN CHAMBER OF BUSINESS LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (63%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH AFRICAN CHAMBER OF BUSINESS EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE; SOUTH AFRICA; ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); FARM LABOR (71%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); AGRICULTURE (70%); LAND RECLAMATION (68%); 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E ROBERT GABRIEL MUGABE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



360 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: A Sojourner In the Past Retraces His Steps;
In a New Cultural History, Jacques Barzun, 92, Finds the West Decadent Though Not Hopeless

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
Before coming to the United States to begin his studies at Columbia University in 1923, Jacques Barzun perfected his English by studying Swift's "Gulliver's Travels." It was an unusual primer, but Barzun's childhood, like Swift's, had been shattered by war, and disarray and darkness were on his mind. A few years earlier, at the age of 12, the young Barzun had contemplated suicide. The First World War had left many he knew dead or maimed. His parents' salon in their house in Creteil, near Paris, at which artists and writers like Apollinaire and Cocteau gathered, had come to an end. The French universities at which he would have studied were decimated. So he devoted himself to learning English under the tutelage of the sardonic Swift before beginning his own travels among peoples that were to him only a bit less exotic than Gulliver's Yahoos and Brobdingnags.
"I had read a lot of books about the Indians," Mr. Barzun recently explained in an interview at his daughter's apartment in Manhattan. "I thought that I would come here and see Indians galloping across the plains." 
 Instead, as he settled into New York, he began a series of intellectual journeys, turning his back on any chance he might have had to become a French diplomat and writer like his father. He became, instead, one of the founders of the modern discipline of cultural history. He wrote about 18th-century France and 19th-century Europe, about the art of the detective novel and the life of the composer Hector Berlioz. For nearly 50 years he taught history at Columbia, eventually becoming its provost, and led seminars with Lionel Trilling that were legendary for their rigor and range. He wrote over 30 books, translated nearly a dozen more, and now, at the age of 92, has finished an epic chronicle of his historical forays, a survey of 500 years of Western cultural life, "From Dawn to Decadence" (HarperCollins), to be published next month.
Its 800 pages condense his teaching career, surveying the tumultuous mixing of intellectual, religious and cultural traditions that make up what we now call the West, creating, as Mr. Barzun puts it, "the mongrel civilization par excellence." When he talks about his vision of this civilization and its discontents, his conversation ranges as widely as the book, touching on Kant, amateur musicianship, Trilling, the Rhodes scholarship, the counterculture and the Protestant Reformation. Mr. Barzun's face is leaner and more lined than it once was, his voice is less vigorous, and he walks carefully with a cane. But the only other sign that he is in his 10th decade is that he has accumulated a long lifetime of literary references and historical arguments.
He recalls the atmosphere at Columbia during the 1920's, when cultural history was just taking shape as a discipline. During the 1890's, he explains, the social sciences underwent "a great upheaval." Emile Durkheim was transforming sociology and William James, psychology, not by defining narrow professional boundaries but, as Mr. Barzun puts it, by starting to pay attention to "the most generalized form of cultural activity."
"Anthropologists put the final touch to it," he continues, "by defining culture among primitive peoples as everything they did: the way they ate, their canoes, their marriage customs -- nothing was left out. When that idea is applied to history, you find that the arts, social customs, government, religion and so forth all become part of cultural history." At Columbia, Mr. Barzun recalls, C. J. H. Hayes, the author of a widely used two-volume textbook "The Political and Social History of Modern Europe," was planning its revision as "The Political and Cultural History of Modern Europe." Mr. Barzun, Hayes's student, assisted in the research and was, as he says, "launched."
The cultural study of history has now become so thoroughly mainstream -- even mutating into contemporary forms like cultural studies -- that it might seem strange to hear just how novel it once was. What made it distinctive, Mr. Barzun explains, was that it refused to be bound by categories of politics, economics or philosophy. Every thinker, Mr. Barzun suggests, "is born into a cultural situation, and we must find out why he picks up the thread here and not there, and why he modifies it and how it is related to what else is happening at the time."
Cultural history creates a web of interrelationships. Understanding the past does not just mean, say, tracing a philosophical idea through time, but seeing how that idea is woven into a cultural fabric. And cultural history, as Mr. Barzun thinks of it, traces the evolution of that fabric through time. It creates a coherent view of the past and its relationship to the present. By showing continuities and transformations in a tradition, it makes sense of the idea of a civilization.
The challenge for the cultural historian, watching these complex relationships unfold, is even more difficult because the frame of reference for judging those past eras is the constantly shifting present. In his book "Classic, Romantic, and Modern," Mr. Barzun points out that a cultural historian "must lead a double life": he must "see the strivings of past epochs with generous fellow feeling" and must also feel "the needs -- which includes the lacks -- of his own time." The fellow feeling means that the past is understood in comparison with the present; the present is understood in comparison with the past.
This is also what Mr. Barzun tries to accomplish in "From Dawn to Decadence," which focuses on a series of evolving ideas -- ideas he capitalizes throughout the text, like emancipation, abstraction, individualism, secularism.
He suggests that there have been four principal eras in recent Western history. The first, which started with the Protestant Reformation in 1517, dealt with the issue of "what to believe in religion." The second, which encompassed the 18th century and ended with the French Revolution in 1789, dealt with the issue of "what to do about the status of the individual and the mode of government." The third, which started with 19th-century Romanticism and ended with Modernism after World War I, tried to determine "by what means to achieve social and economic equality."
The fourth is ending now. As he sees it, the fundamental themes are less clear than they were in past eras, partly because old certainties are unraveling. The West may be politically and economically triumphant, but it is plagued by doubts. Postmodern assertions that there are no absolute truths and that all cultural suppositions are relative displace the rigors of scrutiny that marked the development of the West. The nation-state, which evolved out of Western political thought during the last 500 years, is being challenged by separatist passions. The central Western notion of emancipation has now come to mean that "nothing stands in the way of every wish," in Mr. Barzun's words. And in the arts, creativity is celebrated as a universal talent, diminishing the achievements of genius. Our age is, in Mr. Barzun's words, decadent.
A decadent era, in Mr. Barzun's lexicon, is a period in which there is a kind of "falling off," a restless period in which "there are no clear lines of advance." "When people accept futility and the absurd as normal," he writes, "the culture is decadent. The term is not a slur; it is a technical label." And though it often seems a slur in Mr. Barzun's book, its intimations of decay also provide some reason for hope.
After all, Mr. Barzun suggests, other more extreme periods of decadence -- which include the corrupt 17th-century universe of Swift or the 15th century before the Reformation challenged the corruption of the medieval Church -- were followed by periods of reconstruction, in which Western culture was re-examined and reconstituted. For example, he says, the Romantic movement of the early 19th century is too often considered a celebration of passion, irrationality or sentiment. Instead, Mr. Barzun argues, it was an attempt to construct a cultural order out of the wreckage of the French Revolution. Romanticism did not destroy an order; it created one.
That is also, in Mr. Barzun's view, what the West may be looking forward to. If Western traditions are worn and frayed, that is "all to the good, because it clears the ground," he says, leaving the way open for future construction. This tension between destruction and creation is also, he suggests, an essential aspect of Western culture. The West has itself been so successful, Mr. Barzun says, partly because of "continual debates between orthodoxy and rebellion and the strange ability of individuals to stand out for their accomplishments." Out of such tensions, decadence may lead to a new dawn.
Mankind is resilient, Mr. Barzun believes, despite his mordant view of the present. What is to come can only be imagined: "It is only in the shadows; when some fresh wave, truly original, truly creative, breaks upon the shore, that there will be a rediscovery of the West."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Barzun, a founder of cultural history as a distinct discipline, has written a massive survey of Western life over the last 500 years. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FROM DAWN TO DECADENCE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (76%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; HISTORY WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (90%); LITERATURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); WORLD WAR I (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SUICIDE (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; BARZUN, JACQUES JACQUES MARTIN BARZUN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



361 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Developing Nations End Meeting With a Call to Share the Wealth

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 14

 BODY:
Leaders of developing nations, ending a three-day summit meeting here today, called for a "new global human order" to spread the world's wealth and power.
"One day, humankind will be called to account," said Belize's prime minister, Said Musa. "How come you never made no connection between growing poverty for the many and booming wealth for a few?" 
 Dozens of presidents and prime ministers complained during the conference that globalization of the world's economic and information systems had done little but damage their countries.
Draft resolutions due to be adopted late today called for a shake-up of the world financial system to give developing countries greater say over economic and trade policies, for forgiveness of foreign debt and for sharply increased foreign aid.
Many leaders here were sharply critical of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, asserting that both organizations, which are set to begin meetings of their own in Washington on Sunday, force governments to make painful policy changes in exchange for aid.
"They told us these measures would stabilize our economy," Mr. Said said. "Instead, they have stabilized poverty."
The World Bank reported Thursday that the global financial crisis of 1997-98 had dealt a setback to efforts to relieve poverty. Some 1.2 billion people were forced to survive on less than $1 a day in 1998, it said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (63%); 

COUNTRY: BELIZE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (63%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELIZE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); 

PERSON: SAID MUSA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



362 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: Hunt for Holocaust Victims' Property Turns in New Direction: Toward Israel

BYLINE: By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 14

 BODY:
In a basement meeting room in the Israeli Parliament, a committee of legislators is trying to unravel a tangled and troubling legacy of the Holocaust that has gone unexplored for decades.
The committee, led by Colette Avital, a lawmaker from the governing One Israel Party and former Israeli consul general in New York, is investigating what happened to bank accounts, plots of land and other assets that were held in Israel by Jews who died in the Holocaust. 
 Begun in February at Ms. Avital's initiative, the parliamentary inquiry reflects a growing sense here that Israel should practice what it has preached. In recent years Jewish organizations, backed by Israel, have demanded, with a significant measure of success, that foreign banks and governments disclose possible holdings of accounts and other property of Holocaust victims and survivors, so the assets can be returned to the victims' relatives.
Switzerland agreed more than a year ago to pay compensation of $1.25 billion after more than 54,000 dormant accounts traced back to World War II or earlier were found in Swiss banks.
An international panel investigating insurance policies held by Holocaust victims announced last week that it would publish 19,000 names of policyholders who are owed money.
But it has also emerged that there are untraced assets of Holocaust victims in Israel. Although the property is thought to be far less than the assets held in Europe, its very existence here has raised unsettling questions, especially among survivors and their children.
"We have to come with clean hands when we make demands on foreign institutions," said Gil Raveh, a lawyer from Tel Aviv who is trying to trace what became of 1,000 deposited in the 1930's in British-ruled Palestine by his great-grandfather and a business partner.
Moshe Sanbar, chairman of the Center of Organizations of Holocaust Survivors in Israel, said that when it came to tracing property of Jews who died in the Holocaust, "Israel has a greater moral responsibility and should set a good example, not a bad one."
Jewish investments in Palestine were of a different nature than the money transferred to Swiss banks for safekeeping. Jews in Europe bought plots of land and opened bank accounts in Palestine in the 1920's and 1930's as a way of taking part in the Zionist enterprise or as nest eggs for possible immigration by them or their children.
The sum of the investments has never been determined. Estimates range from $40 million in deposited money to land believed to be worth tens of millions more, including prime real estate in the heart of Israel. European Jews also bought stocks and bonds from Zionist agencies and kept money in safe deposit boxes whose whereabouts are unknown.
After the outbreak of World War II, land and bank accounts held by Jews from countries under Nazi rule were seized by the British mandate government in Palestine as enemy property, and most of the money was transferred to England.
Under a settlement with Israel in 1950, the British government paid back 1.4 million as compensation for the removed funds. Records of the seized accounts and land were turned over to the Israeli government, and some restitution payments were reportedly made, but the fate of other accounts and properties remains unclear.
For decades the matter generated little interest here. Holocaust survivors who came to Palestine and later to the nascent state of Israel were focused on rebuilding their lives and tracing missing relatives, not recovering lost property.
In those early years of nation-building and in subsequent decades there were other priorities, said Dr. Yossi Katz, a professor at Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv whose study of Holocaust-era assets in Israel, "Forgotten Property," was published this week.
"Until the 90's the issue didn't trouble the public," Dr. Katz said. "Other matters were seen as far more important, such as security and absorption of immigrants. It's safe to assume that had the issue not come up recently in Europe, it would not have come up in Israel."
"There was a reluctance here to deal with the the Holocaust in economic terms," Dr. Katz added. "It was inconceivable to turn the Holocaust into a material issue. A younger generation had to come along that was not directly linked to the Holocaust and could deal with it less sentimentally."
Ms. Avital said that on the official level, bureaucratic inertia had prevented effective action to trace and return the unclaimed assets. "There was a lot of neglect and lack of sensitivity," she said.
Even as Holocaust-era claims were pressed loudly in Europe, concerns were voiced that a similar campaign to find assets here would provoke foreign demands that Israel first put its own house in order, undercutting the drive for full disclosure abroad.
"My argument was exactly the opposite," Ms. Avital said. "We have a much better moral position when we can go to the Swiss banks and say we're asking of you what we're asking of ourselves."
Bank disclosures abroad led to similar steps in Israel.
Prodded by hearings in a parliamentary committee, Israeli banks last year handed over lists of 5,000 dormant accounts to the administrator general, a Justice Ministry official who manages unclaimed property. In 1997 the administrator general's office published a list of more than 11,000 unclaimed bank accounts and real estate holdings it manages.
In January, Bank Leumi, an Israeli bank that succeeded the pre-independence Anglo-Palestine Bank, where many of the deposits by European Jews were made, published on its Internet site a list of accounts that have been inactive since 1955 or earlier. The Jewish National Fund, a land development agency, published on its site a list of plots it holds that were sold to Jews before World War II and remain unclaimed.
An Israeli lawyer, Roland Roth, has filed suits on behalf of relatives of Holocaust victims against Bank Leumi and the privately owned Israel Land Development Company, originally set up by the Zionist movement to buy land in Palestine. Contending that the bank has not reported all of the dormant accounts in its possession, Mr. Roth is demanding full disclosure of the accounts and of lands bought by Jews who died in the Holocaust.
Although Israeli banks and the land company have resisted opening their records to outside scrutiny, their stance and the government's inaction are not seen here as comparable to past attempts in Switzerland and elsewhere to deny the existence of Holocaust-era assets and to even cover up their traces.
"Here it was negligence at best; in Switzerland it was a crime," said Yona Yahav, a former legislator who as chairman of the parliamentary banking committee pressed for the Israeli bank disclosures.
Even if no moral equivalence can be drawn between banks in Israel and Switzerland, the banks here are motivated by a similar desire to preserve their assets, Mr. Roth argued. "Every economic body has an interest in holding on to what it can," he said.
Yet it remains unclear how many Holocaust-era assets are unaccounted for.
Shmuel Tsur, the administrator general, says there are few if any Jewish-owned bank accounts and properties that were not confiscated by the British in wartime Palestine as enemy property and later either returned to their owners or transferred for management by his office. Of the list of unclaimed accounts and properties published by his office, fewer than 10 have been recovered after claims to them were confirmed, he said.
"This shows that there is no real problem here," he said in an interview. "I don't know of any reservoir of money or property that is hidden away somewhere in Israel. The public sense that property is being concealed is wrong."
Yet when he was questioned last month by Ms. Avital's committee, Mr. Tsur acknowledged that he could not be sure that he had received full reports from the banks of all dormant accounts, adding that he was not authorized to audit bank records. "I start from the assumption that the bank reports are correct," he said.
Under pressure to do more to find properties of Holocaust victims, Mr. Tsur's office has begun an examination of the 15,000 files of unclaimed property in his office to find evidence of assets that belonged to Jews who died in World War II.
The parliamentary committee is considering ways to empower Mr. Tsur or an independent auditor to examine bank records, as part of a more active government policy to find heirs to property owned by Holocaust victims. "We do have a moral obligation towards these people," Ms. Avital said, noting that in some cases sums returned by Mr. Tsur's office were absurdly low, an indication that deposited money had not been invested by the banks or maintained at its real value.
Relatives of Holocaust victims who have gone to court to claim their inheritance say they are not motivated by a desire for material gain.
Eleazar Shafrir, 76, a retired biochemistry professor who fled a Nazi labor camp in Poland and fought in Israel's war of independence, is trying to locate a plot of land bought in 1938 by his father, who died in Auschwitz.
"I'm not going to get rich from this," he said. "I just want justice to be done. The state should give people back what they deserve."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eleazar Shafrir, a Holocaust survivor, held papers about land bought by his father, who died in Auschwitz. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (78%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; BANKS AND BANKING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); BONDS (61%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); 

PERSON: GREENBERG, JOEL; AVITAL, COLETTE TZIPORA LIVNI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



363 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Stopping the World

 BODY:
In Washington this weekend, a disparate gathering of protesters will be rallying against what they view as the malign forces of economic globalization. The dissidents' message is sometimes confused and misplaced, especially in wanting to dismantle essential institutions like the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization. But the protesters, who call themselves the Mobilization for Global Justice, also represent a popular response -- misguided but heartfelt -- to a worldwide economic transformation that is not fully comprehended even by the experts. To be sure, some interest groups are trying to manipulate public concern for their own advantage. But it would be dangerous to ignore a growing popular unease over these trends and the need for broader educational efforts.
Despite the dramatic stock market decline yesterday, the fact remains that the United States has on balance benefited from the unbridled flow of capital, goods, people and information that is called globalization. The dislocations felt by American workers have been far outweighed by the benefits of cheap imports, low inflation and expanding opportunities for American businesses overseas. Abroad, the poor countries benefiting from expanded markets outnumber those hurt by them. 
 Nevertheless, the new world order has created hardship in declining or newly uncompetitive industries. Some nations see globalization as a code word for American domination. Many fear that the World Bank, I.M.F. and W.T.O. are pursuing the interests of an American-led elite, to the detriment of the poor and the environment. Critics on both the left and right have begun to question whether the world would be better off without these institutions.
Certainly the institutions that manage the world economy must be more sensitive and transparent. But their real challenge is to help everyone understand that there is no realistic -- or beneficial -- way to reverse or even slow the forces that are driving the world economy. Just as American businesses have begun to discover that in the world of an Internet-driven economy the old rules have to be scrapped or adjusted, so countries around the world will have to learn to adjust to the new market forces if they want to harness them to their advantage. Underdeveloped countries have to learn that capital is voluntary, and does not flow to countries that do not obey its rules.
Since the end of the cold war, there have been at least four major currency crises that threatened to destabilize regional economies: in Europe in 1992-93, Mexico in 1994-95, East Asia in 1997 and Russia and Brazil in 1998. Each had the potential for spiraling out of control. The critics descending on Washington argue that the I.M.F. and the World Bank sometimes made these crises worse, while their defenders assert that without the difficulties inflicted, the crises would have grown worse. One thing is certain. There will be more crises to come in the years ahead. The institutions that handle them need to be reformed, not weakened.
The anti-globalization protesters invoke the tactics and styles of the 1960's. But a closer analogy may be early struggles over the burgeoning of capitalism in the 19th century. It was then that disputes between owners and workers and about public costs and private gain led to an age of ideological conflict.
Today's struggle has the added element ofchanging definitions of national sovereignty. Indeed, poor countries are not the only worriers. Europeans are also increasingly wary of American demands to open their economies to American products. As boundaries become more economically irrelevant, one question is whether people will seek refuge in their national identities or in the familiar if transitory comforts of placards, chants and street theater in places like Washington.
Yet today's global economic drama is deeply familiar to students of American history -- how to reconcile the demands of economic growth and opportunity with the need to preserve fairness, stability and the health and welfare of each country's citizens. It is today a challenge without borders. Meeting it calls for more sophisticated international institutions, not a retreat into nostalgia and economic nationalism. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION BANK INTERNATIONAL INDONESIA PT (90%); PT BANK INTERNATIONAL INDONESIA TBK (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); GLOBALIZATION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (72%); COLD WAR (68%); RIOTS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



364 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Nafta Scorecard on Jobs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your April 13 news article about union protests against the potential trade agreement with China states that unspecified studies have found that the North American Free Trade Agreement "created fewer jobs than its proponents predicted and killed fewer than its critics have asserted."
This statement misses the point of the debate. Nafta's supporters predicted a net gain in jobs because the trade surplus with Mexico would rise. But after Nafta went into effect, the small trade surplus with Mexico turned into what is now a $23 billion deficit. Using the Department of Commerce's formula, this translates into 90,000 jobs eliminated in the last year alone. 
 People may differ over the exact numbers, but simple arithmetic shows that Nafta has eliminated more jobs in the United States than it created.
 
JEFF FAUX
Washington, April 13, 2000
 
The writer is president of the Economic Policy Institute. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: FAUX, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



365 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Spreading Beyond Fuel and Energy;
Recent Robust Market Is Linked to Rising Prices

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
For weeks an accelerating inflation rate was confined to fuel and energy, but in March it spread to other areas of the American economy. The change suggests that the robust demand generated by the stock market had finally given business the power to raise prices and make them stick.
The announcement of the inflation breakthrough -- in the form of a 0.7 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index -- came from the Labor Department yesterday an hour before the stock markets opened and contributed to the huge sell-off. 
 "Markets move on emotion," said Richard D. Rippe, chief economist at Prudential Securities. "They were nervous coming into the trading day and traders seized on the C.P.I. as justification for continuing to be bearish."
The chief concern is that rising inflation will encourage the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates even more than the quarter-point increases that Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, has promised over the next two or three months to slow the economy and ease down stock prices. Rich stock portfolios financed much of the spending that has created so much demand and helped to increase the inflation rate in March.
Rising energy prices made the biggest contribution to the rise in the overall rate, which was the largest one-month jump since last April. Gasoline prices alone rose 11 percent, to $1.594 a gallon, on average, the highest level -- ignoring inflation -- ever recorded by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
What caught the market's attention, however, was the so-called core inflation rate, which measures all price increases except those for energy and food, which are considered too volatile to provide a clear picture. This core rate rose 0.4 percent in March, double the monthly increase over most of the last two years. Not since January 1995 has the core rate risen this much.
"It is hard to draw any grand conclusions from this core number," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. "Whether it signals an inflection point or is simply the result of a number of aberrations, no one can say yet. I am more in the aberration camp."
The increases were fairly widespread. Furnishing, renovating and repairing a home, for example, grew more costly in March, perhaps because families cashed in stock or borrowed against their portfolios to upgrade their homes. Hotels and resort rates also rose smartly. "You have a lot of people with a lot of money and they apparently want to take time off and vacation," said Patrick Jackman, a senior economist in the bureau's division that produces the price index.
Rising wages in these industries may also have helped to nudge up the inflation rate, analysts said. Certainly labor costs played a role in March's 0.5 percent increase in medical care costs. Most of that was a result of higher doctors' fees, although hospital charges also rose.
"Tight labor markets are almost certainly beginning to have some impact on consumer prices," said Chris Varvares, a partner at Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis.
Airline fares jumped 4.6 percent in March, pushed up by the cost of fuel, airlines say. Tobacco prices jumped, primarily because of increases in cigarette taxes, especially a 55-cent-a-pack rise in New York State. And vehicle prices rose, mainly because General Motors canceled a $500 rebate on most of its vehicles.
In March, the still-booming stock market helped sustain the demand for new cars, but if this week's sell-off continues, auto sales are likely to fall, prompting car companies to step up discounts and generally easing the pressure on prices.
"Everything could change in the next few weeks," said Edward Hyman, president of the ISI Group, a Wall Street investment firm. "The market is getting crushed, and if demand weakens with the market, pricing power is going to be crushed, too. This morning the report I got from our auto survey showed that luxury car sales in the New York City area were as good as they could possibly be. That cannot last without a strong stock market, and the car companies will respond with discounts."
For all of 1999, the core inflation rate was only 1.9 percent, but with last month's jump the average over the previous 12 months moved up to 2.4 percent. When food and energy are added back, the 12-month moving average in the overall price index has gone from 2.7 percent in December to 3.7 percent in March.
That is well above the inflation target of about 2 percent that has guided Fed policy in recent years. If the higher inflation rate endures, the Fed will almost certainly continue to push up rates, probably a quarter point each time its policy makers meet. The next meeting is on May 16. But if stock prices keep falling or fail to rebound, that could alter the Fed's thinking. Mr. Greenspan has said he would cut rates if he thought that a market sell-off was endangering the economy.
"The good news is that another Fed rate increase is no longer as inevitable as it seemed early this week," Mr. Yardeni said. "The Fed does not like to act in periods of market uncertainty."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Rising Rate Scares Investors"
Yesterday's inflation report, which raised fears of future interest rate increases, turned a bad week for most stocks, into a rout.
 
Graph tracks the year to year change in the consumer price index since 1991.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
 
Graph "Industrial Production" tracks industrial production statistics since October 1998. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C3)
 
Graph "Capacity Utilization" tracks total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, since October 1998. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C3)
 
Graph "Inventory-Sales Ratio" tracks total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted, since October 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C3)
 
Graph "Consumer Prices" tracks several consumer price statistics since April 1999. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STATISTICS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); BONDS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); RESORTS (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



366 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Albert Turner Is Dead at 64; Strove for Civil Rights in South

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
Albert Turner, a civil rights leader and adviser to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died on Thursday in Selma, Ala. He was 64.
Mr. Turner's heart stopped while he was being prepared for an operation to stop abdominal bleeding, said his brother, Robert. 
 Mr. Turner helped lead the voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery, on March 7, 1965. Stick-wielding state troopers turned the peaceful protesters back on the Edmund Pettus Bridge over the Alabama River in a confrontation that became known as Bloody Sunday. Protesters were beaten, chased and tear-gassed. Mr. Turner, wearing a cap, can be seen in contemporary photographs of the front lines of marchers.
Describing the events of that day, Mr. Turner said in an interview: "I fell down and ran. Then I fell down again and ran some more."
J. L. Chestnut, a Selma lawyer and longtime friend, said, "Whenever there was something of unusual danger, and nobody wanted to, you could count on the fact that Albert and John Lewis would lead it." Mr. Lewis later went on to become a Democratic Congressman from Georgia.
Mr. Turner, who was Alabama field secretary for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference at the height of the civil rights movement, was chosen three years after the march to lead the mule wagon that carried the body of Dr. King at his funeral.
The son of a sharecropper, Mr. Turner was born on Feb. 29, 1936, in a four-room shack outside of Marion, Ala. He was the fourth of 12 children. He studied bricklaying and later graduated from Alabama A & M. In July 1963, with the help of a federal injunction, Mr. Turner and about 40 others registered to vote at the county courthouse in Marion. Lawsuits surrounding these efforts to register formed a model for President Lyndon B. Johnson's voting-rights bill.
"I really do not know of a single individual in Alabama who has given more to the political progress of African-Americans in this state than Albert," Mr. Chestnut said. "Albert would hide the fact that he would have a college degree because he was trying to reach always those people at the bottom. Martin understood that, and that's what endeared Albert to Martin, and why Albert was the point man in Alabama."
With his wife, Evelyn, Mr. Turner was cleared of voter fraud in the 1980's, when prosecutors charged them with altering absentee ballots collected from rural blacks.
After the not guilty verdict, President Ronald Reagan nominated Mr. Turner's prosecutor, Jefferson B. Sessions, to the Federal District Court in Alabama. The nomination died in the Senate Judicial Committee after concerns were raised about the voter fraud prosecutions.
"The indictments come because blacks have gotten too well organized for political empowerment in the Black Belt of Alabama," Mr. Turner said at the time he was acquitted. "They didn't spend a million dollars because they think a few old folks' ballots were changed."
In recent years, Mr. Turner, an insurance salesman, served on the Perry County Commission, where he was active in preserving adequate health care in the county, where many hospitals serving rural communities are closing. He was also on the search committee to find a new police chief for Marion, the county seat.
"He was very smart and knowledgeable about politics in this area of Alabama," said another commissioner, Charles LeCroy. "He supported everything Dr. King advocated, and he brought his people up socially, economically and politically during his time in office. He'll be missed by people here in Perry County."
Mr. Turner is survived by his wife; three sons, Barrett of Indianapolis, Eric of Birmingham, and Albert Jr. of Marion; a daughter, Eldra Marcus of Tuskegee, Ala.; and nine brothers and sisters, and five grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1968, Albert Turner led the mule wagon carrying the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s body. (Photographs by The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: BLACK BELT SYSTEMS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ALABAMA, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); CIVIL RIGHTS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); BALLOTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (69%); FARM LABOR (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); ELECTION FRAUD (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); VERDICTS (63%); INJUNCTIONS (63%); INDICTMENTS (63%); ACQUITTAL (63%); 

PERSON: TURNER, ALBERT; KELLEY, TINA; KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68) MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%); RONALD REAGAN (74%); JOHN LEWIS (73%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



367 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Causes That Are Too Celebre

BYLINE: By Gregg Easterbrook; Gregg Easterbrook is a columnist for BeliefNet.com and author of Beside Still Waters: Searching for Meaning in an Age of Doubt.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Fourteen-year-old girls everywhere can breathe now that ABC News has decided to go ahead and broadcast its Earth Day special in which Leonardo DiCaprio, crusading journalist, questions President Clinton about global warming. Personally, I know I'll be waiting for his question on the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change science-assessment revisions, especially as they apply to new studies on ocean-current fluid dynamics when compared to the watts-per-square-foot forcing of anthropogenic gases, and how this will affect the Kyoto Annex I plans for joint implementation of carbon sequestration.
Be these things as they may, ABC asserts that it is sending a teen heartthrob to interview the president about global warming in order to raise public awareness of the issue. But it's fair to suppose that one reason public concern over the greenhouse effect is low is exactly that Hollywood is on the case. When the networks and movie studios treat global warming as a subject so trifling, it can be safely passed off from serious discussion to glam events hosted by celebrities. 
 This is hardly the first time the entertainment world has tried to raise awareness on global warming. In 1993, CBS broadcast a preposterous miniseries, "The Fire Next Time," to great fanfare. It depicted the United States in the year 2007 as a nation destroyed by global warming. In the miniseries, a man and boy attempt to travel a nation wracked by searing heat, sustained droughts, monster storms and dangerous exposure to bad dialogue.
Conservative critics were aghast, saying the miniseries indoctrinated mass audiences with greenhouse scenarios far worse than any predicted even by the most pessimistic scientists. Yet there was no evidence that public concern for the environment rose in the wake of the CBS broadcasts, and shortly afterward Americans voted in the anti-environmental Gingrich Congress. By trivializing the greenhouse effect into something as ludicrous as the subject of a sci-fi miniseries, the network might have convinced mass audiences that global warming was just another Hollywood gimmick, which, unfortunately, it may not be.
Ditto for Kevin Costner's "Waterworld," a sci-fi epic that depicted an Earth inundated with oceans engorged by greenhouse-induced melting of the polar ice caps, again a much worse outcome even the most pessimistic models project. Mr. Costner justified his movie and its inflated budget with some blather about raising public awareness. It didn't help the planet or the box-office numbers.
How many stars have really "raised awareness" about an environmental cause in a lasting way? A decade ago, when concerns about the rain forests were rising, Sting made himself Mr. Rain Forest; today the rain forest continues to shrink and public concern hovers near zero (although the Rainforest Cafe chain has been packing in customers).
No doubt most stars are sincere about the causes they attach themselves to. The problem is, while the public admires stars, it also sees them as about the most pampered people around, with little connection to real life. Thus the public can be forgiven if it suspected that Ted Danson, founder of the American Oceans Campaign and host of the TV documentary "Danger at the Beach," might have been primarily concerned about the waterfront near his Martha's Vineyard home.
Global warming is a slow-building problem for which scientific evidence is beginning to increase. Reform is possible but will take many years. In the interim, how many celebrities will get bored with the details and jump on to the next fad?
It is always possible that ABC is on to something with the actor-as-journalist approach, and a Leo-Clinton pose fest will get young people excited about working for greenhouse-effect reform. But it seems more likely that the program will serve to make the issue seem simplistic. The alternative -- slow-moving interviews with scientists, thinkers and economists who have just slightly less than Mr. DiCaprio's squeal appeal -- will never be a ratings winner. But it would be credible, and the gradual accrual of credibility is what is needed today for greenhouse effect concerns. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ABC INC AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (91%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (91%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; EARTH DAY; WEATHER GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WEATHER (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); DROUGHT (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (73%); OCEANS (71%); PHYSICS (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); TICKET SALES (64%); 

PERSON: EASTERBROOK, GREGG; DICAPRIO, LEONARDO; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) LEONARDO DICAPRIO (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



368 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Returns of Long Census Forms Lag; Bureau Cites Privacy Fears

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
Facing concerns in Congress that the questions in this year's census are intrusive, Census Bureau officials said today that they saw new, worrying signs that many people were refusing to complete and return the longer version of the form.
The bureau's latest figures show that 65 percent of all households that received the short version of the form had returned it, compared with 51 percent of those that received the longer version. 
 That 14 percentage-point gap differs markedly from the results of the 1990 census, when the gap was only 6 points. In 1990, after households that did not return the forms were visited, the gap closed to 4.5 points.
The long form, which has 53 questions, is mailed to 1 in every 6 households. It seeks data on a variety of subjects, including income, education and disabilities. The short form has only eight questions.
Census officials did not draw a direct connection between the shortfall in households completing the long form and the recent comments of lawmakers on Capitol Hill who have suggested that the questions in the form are intrusive.
Last week the Senate passed a resolution urging that people who refuse to answer particular questions on the census not be prosecuted, though it was doubtful that anyone would be charged with the crime.
Still, there is concern among census officials that the privacy debate may lead some people to refuse to fill out the long form.
The results compiled from the long forms are considered vital to both the government and private companies. Data from the long form is also used in developing key economic indicators, including the Consumer Price Index.
The problem with the long form was a major blemish on what otherwise was a good week for the Census Bureau. Earlier this week, census officials announced that the overall mail return rate for census forms had reached 62 percent.
"It's a strong 62 percent," said Kenneth W. Prewitt, the census director. "I think we're in reach of getting to 65 percent before we close down this part of the thing."
If that trend holds, census officials would have made good on their desire to halt the long-term decline in mail-back response rates that had dropped to 65 percent in 1990 from 83 percent in 1970, the first year they were mailed.
Census officials say they are unsure of the extent of the problem at the moment.
Right now, bureau officials are merely calculating the number of long and short forms that have been returned. They have yet to check to see what proportion of those forms have been completely filled out.
If, as some politicians have suggested, households have provided only the bare minimum of information on the long forms, the problem of a lack of data may even be worse.
Officials are concerned that the lagging response rate on the long form may mean that census takers will encounter more resistance when they visit the households that did not return the forms in order to get the information in person.
No one can say at this moment how much the lagging return rates for the long form will affect that quality of data available to government agencies, private companies and researchers.
"If the long form response rates stays low across the country on a random basis, it will be less serious," Mr. Prewitt said. "If it clusters geographically, then there will be parts of the country where we will not have very good data." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU IF AS (81%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS; PRIVACY CENSUS (97%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A KENNETH W PREWITT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



369 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: The Clintons Pay $92,104 In Federal Income Taxes

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Raising money for the down payment on their new home in Chappaqua, N.Y., caused President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, to pay substantial capital gains taxes last year, the couple's tax return, released by the White House yesterday, showed.
The Clintons paid $92,104, or 22.1 percent, in federal taxes on income of $416,039. 
 Capital gains accounted for $179,849 of their income, of which $122,094 were long-term gains on which they paid a tax of $24,419. The short-term gains were taxed as ordinary income.
The couple put down more than a third of a million dollars on their new home, said Jim Kennedy, a White House spokesman. The house was bought a few months before Mrs. Clinton formally announced her candidacy for the United States Senate from New York.
Vice President Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, reported income of $240,930 and paid $59,178, or 24.5 percent, in federal taxes.
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, plans to release a synopsis of his income tax return on Monday and expects to release a finished tax return in the fall, said his spokesman, Ari Fleischer.
For the third time in four years, the Clintons paid more in federal taxes than the law requires, the result of their decision four years ago to take as income royalties from Mrs. Clinton's book "It Takes a Village" and then to give away the after-tax value. Mrs. Clinton received $20,214 in royalties in 1999 on which she paid $2,856 in self-employment taxes to cover Social Security and Medicare taxes.
In all, the Clintons have given away $937,358 to children's and health charities since 1996, $109,000 less than they could have if they had given ownership of the book to a donor-advised or donor-directed fund at a community foundation. The difference went to income taxes and to self-employment taxes, which will increase Mrs. Clinton's Social Security income when she turns 65 by 3 percent.
Mrs. Clinton followed a different approach with her second book, "Dear Socks, Dear Buddy," about letters children had written to her family's pets. She gave the copyright to the National Parks Foundation in 1998, which meant that all of the royalties flow untaxed to this charity.
The Clintons gave $39,200 to charity last year, of which $17,358 was the net royalties from the Village book, $12,000 came from a "pin money" fund for first ladies and $9,842 came from their pockets.
Mr. Clinton earned $200,000 as president, the couple had $6,008 in interest, $11,396 in dividends, $20,214 in royalties and $179,849 in capital gains, and received a deduction for half of Mrs. Clinton's self-employment tax, giving them an adjusted gross income of $416,039. The couple also received $9,917 in tax-exempt interest.
The Clintons declared themselves residents of Arkansas, as the tax law allows, avoiding the much higher income taxes imposed by the District of Columbia. They paid $18,850 in Arkansas state taxes and $13,081 in property taxes on their Chappaqua home in Westchester County, which they bought in November.
Because of the size of their deductions and the components of their income, the Clintons also had to pay $4,943 in alternative minimum tax.
That tax, enacted in 1969, was intended to make sure all high-income Americans paid at least some federal income tax, but because it has not been fully adjusted to reflect inflation it now applies to people making as little as $28,000 annually and 1,800 people last year still paid no federal income tax despite an income of more than $200,000.
The Gores' tax return, which listed them as residents of Tennessee, showed that they own far fewer assets than the Clintons. In addition to Mr. Gore's salary of $175,400, the couple reported taxable interest of $1,267, but no dividends or tax-exempt interest. The Gores reported $29,260 in capital gains and $20,371 in income from renting real estate.
Mr. Gore also received $16,457 in royalties on the re-issue of his 1992 book "Earth in the Balance," on which he has built an image as an environmentalist. He took $2,468 in unspecified expenses, reducing the taxable proceeds to $13,989.
The Gores gave $15,000 to charities and listed areas of giving like illnesses, religious organizations and educational institutions, but did not specify whether any were environmental organizations.
In 1998 the Gores gave $15,197 to charity, but in 1997 they gave just $353, less than two-tenths of 1 percent of their income, prompting intense criticism. In 1996 the couple gave away $35,530, all but $530 of it royalties from a book. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INCOME TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); CHARITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MEDICARE (72%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (63%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (54%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GORE, TIPPER BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JAMES KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



370 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Deal Reached on Bill to Help African and Caribbean Trade

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
House and Senate leaders have reached broad agreement on a bill to give African and Caribbean countries wide-ranging trade benefits intended to help their flagging economies by opening new markets.
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, personally intervened on Thursday night to resolve differences that had deadlocked the measure for months. Left unresolved, the impasse could have imperiled a landmark accord to grant China permanent normal trading privileges that the House is scheduled to vote on next month. 
 House and Senate negotiators still have to work out many details in the bill, which would reduce or eliminate tariffs and quotas on a wide range of goods made in sub-Saharan Africa, Central America and the Caribbean.
Supporters voiced confidence that the House and Senate were highly likely to approve the bill when Congress reconvenes early next month. Last year, the Senate approved the bill, 76 to 19, after the House had passed it, 234 to 163.
President Clinton strongly supports the measure, which would be the first major trade-promotion agreement enacted in the United States since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993, a law that established duty-free commerce among Canada, Mexico and the United States.
"This bill is a win-win proposition for the United States and for our friends in Africa and the Caribbean Basin," Mr. Clinton said today.
The House agreed to grant many of the same duty-free benefits on apparel and textiles to 24 Caribbean and Central American countries that will be extended to 48 African nations.
The House had not included the Caribbean in its bill mainly because lawmakers from textile states and those with many union constituents argued that exports from that region would threaten American jobs. The American Textile Manufacturers Institute said today the deal could harm 600,000 workers in the industry.
The Senate dropped a requirement that limited duty-free status to clothing made with fabric, thread or yarn from the United States. But in a concession to textile makers, the agreement initially caps the volume of duty-free goods at 1.5 percent of textile imports. That cap grows to 3.5 percent over eight years, to encourage foreign investment in fledgling African markets.
The poorest African countries would be eligible for duty-free treatment with no restrictions for four years.
Proponents of the measure argue that it would increase economic growth in a continent where United States trade is relatively small. Last year, American merchandise exports to Africa totaled $6.7 billion, while imports amounted to $13.4 billion, or slightly more than what Japan exports here in a month.
The two Republican leaders worked out the major sticking points on Thursday night. But the deal still has to be formally approved by negotiators from each chamber.
"This agreement marks a significant milestone for a strong and meaningful trade mechanism in the African and Caribbean Basin regions," said Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican who heads the Ways and Means Committee, which oversees trade legislation.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the committee, said: "This bill will make a significant difference in the lives of millions of Africans. It will create jobs in Africa and jobs in America."
Critics said that multinational corporations would exploit African workers and that the compromise failed to address crucial issues like debt relief and AIDS in Africa. "This bill is worse than no bill at all," said Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., an Illinois Democrat who opposed the original House bill.
Some other Democrats who supported the House bill, like Jim McDermott of Washington and William J. Jefferson of Louisiana, grumbled that the compromise might fall short of what they could accept.
That is significant, because both legislators have indicated that their support for the China trade deal hinged on a satisfactory outcome for the Africa measure, which they say has been receiving short shrift from the White House and Congressional leaders.
Nailing down an acceptable Africa bill could swing three to five critical Democratic votes for the China measure, said Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, a chief Democratic vote counter.
Mr. Lott, anticipating dissent from textile-state senators, strongly endorsed the deal, saying, "These are free-trade provisions that will help business and industry in America, everything from cotton to retail to textiles to yarn."
One provision, to create a mechanism to retaliate against unfair trade practices committed against the United States, was included as a favor to Carl H. Lindner, an Ohio executive and big political fund-raiser whose Chiquita Brands International is locked in a trade war with Europe over bananas
Another provision for American garment makers, including Fruit of the Loom, a big political donor to both Republican and Democratic causes, would cut the cost of manufacturing apparel in the Caribbean with yarn and fabric from the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ON THE STREETS"
Not the Corporate Elite: A Sampler of Protest
 
Religious groups
 
A movement known as Jubilee 2000, backed primarily by Catholic and Protestant churches
 
That many of the poorest nations are overburdened with international debt and deserve debt forgiveness.
 
The World Bank and the I.M.F. are among the leading lenders to the poorest countries. Many religious groups criticize these lenders for a slow and half-hearted response to the push for debt relief.
 
Environmental groups
 
Friends of the Earth, the Sierra Club and the Rainforest Action Network
 
That the spread of free-market capitalism is damaging forests, silting rivers, contributing to greenhouse gas emissions and destroying the natural resources of poor nations.
 
Some accuse the World Bank of funding energy and road projects that hasten environmental degradation. These groups contend that the I.M.F. encourages governments to curtail spending on environmental protection in return for aid.
 
Organized labor
 
The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the United Steelworkers of America and the Teamsters Union
 
That global trade will have a negative effect on workers' jobs in wealthy countries. Labor groups have pushed for stricter trade and labor standards worldwide.
 
Some say the lenders encourage poor nations to develop big export-oriented industries, costing U.S. jobs. Labor's main goal, however. is to rewrite trade rules enforced by the World Trade Organization.
 
Student groups
 
United Students Against Sweatshops and the U.S. Student Association
 
That U.S. consumer products companies sometimes tolerate poor working conditionsin overseas factories.
 
Some student groups accuse the World Bank and I.M.F. of protecting the interests of corporations over the rights of workers abroad and of forcing third-world companies to open their doors to investment by multinational companies.
 
Ad hoc coalitions
 
Global Exchange, 50 Years Is Enough, and the Ruckus Society
 
That globalization worsens social injustice, poverty and animal rights, and speeds the erosion of indigenous cultures.
 
The World Bank and the I.M.F. are seen as the main villains of globalization, capitalist enforcers trying to make the world safe for big corporations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (98%); AFRICA (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); AFL-CIO (59%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); SIERRA CLUB (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (59%); RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); AFL-CIO (59%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); SIERRA CLUB (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (59%); RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN AREA; AFRICA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (98%); AFRICA (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); QUOTAS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TEXTILES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TRENDS (72%); TEXTILE MILLS (69%); FABRIC MILLS (69%); TEXTILE MFG (69%); FABRICS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SCHMITT, ERIC; LOTT, TRENT (SEN); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER) TRENT LOTT (73%); BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



371 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Ford Motor to Pay $10 Billion Dividend andEnsure Family Control

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., April 14

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company announced a complex revamping of its ownership structure today, including the payment of a $10 billion special dividend -- the largest ever by an American company -- and the issuance of additional stock to the Ford family, cementing its grip on the world's second-largest industrial corporation.
The plan is designed to let Ford distribute nearly half its $24 billion cash hoard, one of the largest of any company in the world, while minimizing taxes for its shareholders and giving the Ford family greater financial flexibility, particularly for estate planning. But the big cash disbursement could leave Ford somewhat more vulnerable in a recession, although the company would still have as much cash after the special dividend as General Motors has now. 
 The big dividend may limit somewhat Ford's ability to undertake further large acquisitions; Ford bought Volvo Cars a year ago and agreed last month to buy Land Rover from BMW. But Jacques A. Nasser, Ford's chief executive, said that the company would not rule out further deals.
The recapitalization plan unveiled today was a delicate balance between the interests of Ford Motor's public shareholders and the interests of Henry Ford's descendants. Big institutional shareholders and Wall Street analysts have been urging Ford Motor since the mid-1990's to disburse some of its enormous cash hoard by buying back stock. But the Ford family has always resisted share buybacks, insisting on dividends instead because of the special class of stock that the family holds.
The Ford family holds all 71 million shares of the company's Class B stock, along with a small number of the company's 1.1 billion common shares. Under rules designed to preserve family control and drafted when the company went public in 1956, the family holds 40 percent of the voting power at the company as long as it continues to own at least 60.7 million shares of the Class B stock -- even though the Class B shares make up only 6 percent of the company's overall equity.
If the family sells too many shares of its Class B stock, whether to pay estate taxes, cover personal expenses or simply participate in a stock buyback, then the family's influence shrinks. If the family's holdings fall to between 33.7 million and 60.7 million shares of Class B stock, the family wields only 30 percent of the voting power. And if the family's holdings fall below 33.7 million shares then all special voting privileges are lost.
When Class B shares are sold outside the family, they revert to common stock. Under today's plan, each holder of Ford's common or Class B stock will be given a choice of receiving $20 a share in cash or additional common stock. William C. Ford Jr., Ford's chairman and one of Henry Ford's 13 great-grandchildren, said that the members of the Ford family would take additional stock for all of their Class B stock. Most if not all family members will put the additional distribution into the family's voting trust, he added.
The extended family faces the problem of covering estate taxes while preserving family control of the company upon the deaths someday of Henry Ford's two surviving grandchildren, Josephine F. Ford and William C. Ford Sr., who are in their mid-70's. Today's arrangement will give family members $1.42 billion of common stock to sell without touching their Class B stock.
Ford Motor is reissuing its common and Class B stock as part of the recapitalization, allowing the $20 special dividend for other shareholders to be taxed at the lower rates for capital gains instead of the higher rates for income taxes.
Ford Motor said that after the recapitalization, it would also spin off its wholly owned auto parts subsidiary, the Visteon Corporation, by distributing all of the shares to holders of common and Class B stock. Visteon has $19 billion a year in sales, of which $17 billion are to Ford.
Mr. Ford said that he would definitely retain the Visteon shares he received, and other family members were also likely to retain them, providing another big asset for the family to sell someday while safeguarding the Class B shares.
The family had partially addressed the estate tax problem in 1998, when Ford distributed to shareholders its 80 percent stake in the Associates First Capital Corporation, a consumer lending business.
Ford officials said that their plan would not require special approval by the Internal Revenue Service or the Securities and Exchange Commission. Robert Willens, a tax expert at Lehman Brothers not involved in putting the deal together, agreed with that assessment. He said that the special dividend would easily be the largest cash dividend ever paid, and that the overall deal did not appear to favor the Ford family at the expense of other shareholders.
Stephen Girsky, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said that the distribution of common stock to the Ford family would also align the family's interests more closely with those of other shareholders in the future. The family will henceforth have common shares to tender in any future stock buybacks by Ford Motor, he said.
The stock market welcomed Ford's plan, bidding up its stock immediately after the morning announcement even as the rest of the market plunged, although Ford shares also began to fall by early afternoon and closed at $53.1875, down $1.25. But Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, lowered the rating on Ford's long-term debt to A from A+, saying that Ford would have less of a cash cushion for making bond payments.
Mr. Ford has talked frequently in interviews over the years about his desire that his children and grandchildren keep a strong link to Ford Motor. Although hostile or friendly approaches by potential merger candidates have sometimes forced special dividends and share buybacks at other companies, Mr. Ford said that the company was not under outside pressure and that the family's role would continue to prevent this.
"Our goal has always been, and will be as long as there is a Ford family, to keep Ford an independent entity," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference yesterday were, from left, Jacques A. Nasser, Ford's chief executive of Visteon; and Henry G. Wallace, Ford's chief financial officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); FORD MOTOR CO OF CANADA LTD (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); ESTATE TAX (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (52%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; FORD FAMILY DAVID FORD (68%); HENRY FORD II (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



372 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Ice for a Hot Economy?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The American economy boomed as the stock market, particularly technology stocks, soared to unprecedented heights. Now, with stocks suddenly much lower, will the economy cool off quickly?
Some economists say so. "We are going to find that this tech wreck and Nasdaq crash will have a much more immediate impact on consumer spending than the interest rate hikes the Federal Reserve has given us," Edward Yardeni, the chief economist of Deutsche Bank Securities, said yesterday. 
 Whether his forecast turns out to be true depends on psychology at least as much as it does on economics. After all, even after losing a quarter of its value this week, and a third since it peaked barely more than a month ago, the Nasdaq composite index is still higher than it was in November. Other stock indexes have suffered much less damage.
The booming stock market has clearly aided the economy, as investors who felt wealthier spent more. The anticipation of higher stock prices also helped. One survey late last year showed that the typical investor expected the stock market to gain an average 19 percent a year for the next decade, a figure that is in line with recent experience but far larger than long-term growth of the economy is likely to support. Investors who held such expectations could have felt less need to save, since they thought their investments were likely to keep rising.
"The retracement so far takes away only a small part of the increase in financial asset values over the last few years," said Henry Kaufman, an economist who runs his own money management firm. He said the decline was likely to have "only a modest economic retarding influence." But he added that changes in expectations could have a larger impact on consumer spending.
Until recently, the so-called new economy was considered largely immune to higher interest rates. The stock prices of many older companies came under pressure after the Federal Reserve began raising interest rates last June, on the expectation that such increases would eventually slow their business. But the high-technology part of the stock market soared as investors thought that the demand for such products would not suffer much even if the old economy faltered.
Now, however, the sudden weakness of the stock market may have a much more direct effect on the new economy. Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company, noted that initial public offerings and venture capital investments had brought in $150 billion for hundreds of new companies since the beginning of 1999.
Much of that money was spent by new companies on computers, software and communications equipment purchased from older technology companies. A precipitous decline in such financings would directly affect companies like Intel, Compaq and Lucent Technologies.
"The impact on the real economy will be faster than people expect, and concentrated in technology," Mr. Barbera said.
Nearly 13 years ago, when the stock market crashed in 1987, many economists assumed that a recession would follow. The stock market was viewed as a leading indicator of the economy, and surely a fall as large as that one indicated a deep economic problem.
In fact, it did not. In retrospect, the severity of the 1987 crash reflected market imperfections more than economic realities. Many institutional investors thought they could protect themselves by selling stock index futures when prices fell. Such selling accelerated the decline.
After the crash, the Fed immediately changed its policy and began to lower interest rates. The New York economy, far more dependent on Wall Street than other regions were, suffered to some extent. But most of the country continued to grow until a brief recession arrived in 1990.
The Fed also moved to cut interest rates when world stock markets plunged in 1998, after the crisis in Asia and Russia's default on some of its debts alarmed investors. There was talk of a worldwide recession, but it did not materialize.
Recently, as in 1987, the Fed has been raising interest rates in an effort to slow the economy. But it is not at all obvious that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, will again reverse course. The Consumer Price Index report released yesterday morning was far worse than expected and helped to accelerate the selling of stocks; some economists viewed it as a possible reason for the Fed to decide to raise rates by half a percentage point, rather than the quarter-point that was expected, at its meeting next month.
At a minimum, the Fed is not likely to stop raising rates until there is clear evidence that something -- whether rising rates or a plunging stock market or a combination of the two -- is significantly slowing the economy.
Another economic issue that could arise concerns the dollar. Thanks in part to surging consumer demand, the United States has been running a record trade deficit. The deficit has not hurt the dollar because foreigners were willing to invest their dollars back in this country, many of them in stocks. A slower flow of foreign money into American investments could put pressure on the value of the dollar.
There is no assurance, of course, that the recent decline of the stock market will continue. Investors have responded to many falls since 1987 by buying the dips, and headlines about plunging stock prices soon gave way to articles about new highs for major indexes. The fall of 7.3 percent for the Dow Jones industrial average this week was the worst since the index fell 7.6 percent in the week ended Oct. 13, 1989. On the following Monday, the Dow leaped 3.4 percent, and the fears were soon forgotten.
That could happen again. But if it does not, one factor that has pushed the economy to new heights will have been removed. At a minimum, that means slower growth. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (60%); ALU (NYSE) (60%); ALU (BIT) (60%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO INC (62%); HOENIG & CO LTD (62%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (60%); INTEL CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); BONDS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



373 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: As Port Authority Stalls, Ex-Governors Urge Talks

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
At least five people are looking on with particular interest as the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey remains stuck in the mud, putting major projects on hold because of a feud between Gov. George E. Pataki of New York and Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey.
They are the five former governors who, to varying degrees, negotiated the delicate balancing act between two states and sets of economic priorities that have made the Port Authority one of most important generators of the region's economic activity. 
 None of the governors says he has a magic solution to the impasse at the authority, which manages the two states' airports, ports, Hudson River crossings and other transportation systems. But all agreed that the authority depended on various kinds of political, personal and economic diplomacy to work. And they cited a need for a personal connection between the two governors that seems absent now.
"The more you know each other, the more you talk, the harder it is to fight," said Thomas H. Kean, the only Republican among the five, who was New Jersey's governor from 1982 to 1990. He recalled the monthly dinners he had with New York's Democratic governor, Mario M. Cuomo, specifically to avoid problems over the Port Authority. "It may have been fun for both of us to holler at the other across the Hudson River," Mr. Kean said, "but like it or not, we are tied together."
In contrast, Governors Pataki and Whitman, both Republicans in their second terms, have had few private meetings, and aides say there are no plans for any now.
For the last year, New York representatives to the agency's board have refused to approve a staff-negotiated, 30-year lease intended to keep the container operations at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal competitive, charging that it represents a deep subsidy to New Jersey.
New Jersey's representatives have countered by refusing to move on the privatization of the World Trade Center and the leasing of air rights over the Port Authority Bus Terminal -- projects that New York dearly wants.
The deadlock showed no sign of easing in the last month as the agency postponed its monthly board meeting while aides to the governors discussed their differences.
A common thread in the recollections of the former governors -- Mr. Cuomo and Hugh L. Carey of New York, and Mr. Kean, Brendan T. Byrne and Jim Florio of New Jersey -- was an often-complex balancing of Port Authority spending in each state and a mutual sensitivity to their counterparts' political problems. Many praised the agency's professional staff members, who often smoothed over conflicts.
None was so disingenuous as to suggest that during his tenure the Port Authority engaged in purely regional projects of clear and equal benefit to both states. Few glossed over the occasional blatant horse-trading over agency projects. But they all said that it was pragmatism and principle that led them to avoid protracted and public bean counting over how much the agency had spent in each state.
Any New York governor must make a crucial attitude adjustment, Mr. Cuomo said. "This bistate agency was set up as if the two states are equal," he said, "and it treats them as equal when we all know that New York is bigger, more powerful and has more of everything than New Jersey does. It's lopsided, and a totally unnatural situation in which it is tempting for New York to insist they should get more. But you just have to put that out of your head."
Mr. Kean said of his relationship with Mr. Cuomo, "The thing we decided that these two governors seem not to have decided was to leave the past alone and look toward the future."
Still, some critics of the agency say that the past governors are rewriting history. Many New York governors, flush with funds and revenue sources that did not require bistate agreement to spend, mostly ignored the Port Authority, said Mitchell Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University.
The result, he said, was that shrewder, more attentive and less flush New Jersey governors used the authority to "subsidize New Jersey in a hundred different ways."
"Governor Pataki should be congratulated for deciding that he is no longer going to let New Jersey governors use the Port Authority as a cash machine," Mr. Moss said.
Congress created the Port Authority in 1921 as the nation's first bistate compact, modeling it after the London Port Authority. Charged with coordinating the two states' transportation and port projects to enhance regional commerce, it was supposed to be independent, professional and beyond politics and patronage.
The authority began by building the Hudson River crossings, bringing in the George Washington Bridge on time and under budget. It was led by a series of master builders: Eugenius H. Outerbridge, Major Gen. George W. Goethals and Austin J. Tobin, the agency's longtime executive director, who served from 1942 to 1972.
"I remember Austin Tobin from when I was a child in Brooklyn," said Mr. Carey, who was New York's governor from 1975 to 1983. "He had the most significant position in the community, and we knew we had something valuable there."
From across the river in those days, Mr. Kean said, the agency seemed to be bathed in the aura of New York's governor, Nelson A. Rockefeller. "It was his, Rockefeller's, agency," he said. "But even though it had the Rockefeller glow, we felt that they had a professional staff and what they were doing, they were doing well."
The staff often mediated disputes, Mr. Kean said, recalling that when his term overlapped with Mr. Carey's, the New York governor was facing a budget crisis and sought his support on a proposal to sell the World Trade Center and divide the proceeds.
Mr. Kean said that he knew that Peter Goldmark, then the agency's executive director and Mr. Carey's former budget director, opposed the sale. So Mr. Kean deferred to the staff opinion, and Mr. Carey gave up the end run around his own appointee.
Mr. Byrne recalled the time he saw Mr. Carey being tugged between opponents and supporters in New York of allowing supersonic aircraft from landing and taking off from Kennedy International Airport.
"I got him off the hook and solved the problem for him by vowing to veto agency minutes and thereby stop all agency activities if the planes were not allowed," the former New Jersey governor said. "And he on the other hand understood politically that I could not support an increase in the PATH fare, and so he never bothered me on it."
The extent to which the former governors saw the agency as regional or simply an extension of their own fiscal and economic development policies varied widely. Mr. Kean said that the agency was "owned" by the two governors, who then had to agree on what it should do.
Neither Mr. Byrne, who was New Jersey's Democratic governor from 1974 to 1982, nor Mr. Carey would go quite that far in laying claim to the agency, and both spoke of reliance on the staff and the independent-minded business leaders they had appointed to the board.
"I didn't focus on the Port Authority to solve our problems fiscally or otherwise," said Mr. Florio, who was defeated by Mrs. Whitman after a single term in 1994 and is now seeking the Democratic nomination for the Senate. "There are some things that can be done in a rational way for both states that can't really be quantified for each."
And Mr. Cuomo, who was turned out of office by Mr. Pataki in 1994 after three terms, said that there were times when he wanted to raise tolls and PATH fares, moves that would increase authority's revenues but fall mainly on New Jerseyans. But he knew he could not convince Mr. Kean and later Mr. Florio of such a move. "There was no use in trying it and going to the press to embarrass them," he said.
Most of the former governors said the current impasse was embarrassing and mystifying. Mr. Kean said the problem could not be ideological, since Mr. Pataki and Mrs. Whitman were moderate Republicans with similar views on most things, including the role of government.
"They are two peas in a pod," Mr. Cuomo agreed. "Both liberal Republicans from the Northeast, both pro-choice and both being considered by their party for vice president." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); LONDON PORT AUTHORITY (97%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY LONDON PORT AUTHORITY (97%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); GOVERNORS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; CAREY, HUGH L; CUOMO, MARIO M; BYRNE, BRENDAN; FLORIO, JIM; KEAN, THOMAS H; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



374 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: The Market's Breathtaking Plunge

 BODY:
Economists have warned for years that stock prices are unrealistically high, needing to fall by about a third, by one prominent estimate, to regain financial sense. But no amount of warning could take the fright out of yesterday's record drops in all major stock averages. Investors lost more than $2 trillion this week. Besides the horrific blow to personal wealth, there is the added threat to the health of the overall economy.
How important an event yesterday's plunge proves to be depends on how much the market bounces back next week, and on other factors as well. Will people reduce their spending enough to trigger a recession? Will businesses, finding it harder to raise money on Wall Street, cut back investment plans, delivering a blow to long-term economic growth? On these scores, there are firm reasons to remain optimistic. For example, on a single day, Oct. 19, 1987, stocks lost an astounding 23 percent. Yesterday's major averages dropped between 5 and 10 percent. Yet even the 1987 debacle caused relatively little hardship on Main Street. Under the shrewd leadership of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve kept the economy growing. Mr. Greenspan is still in charge of the Fed, and he has the tools to make sure that Wall Street and Main Street do not rise and fall in lockstep. 
 Whatever the stock market decline portends for the economy, the sheer size of yesterday's losses was stunning. The index of 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average fell a record 618 points, more than 5.6 percent. That is about 65 points more than the previous record. The Standard & Poor's 500 index, a more representative sample of American stocks, lost a record 84 points, almost 6 percent.
The biggest losers yesterday were owners of Nasdaq stocks, especially technology stocks. The Nasdaq lost a record 355 points, or almost 10 percent. The index is off about 35 percent in the past month alone. Many will regard the drop in technology stocks -- Microsoft has lost more than $200 billion in value from its peak, Intel about $100 billion -- as an inevitable correction. Often prices have little connection to the profits these companies can be expected to earn anytime soon. Some investors might have convinced themselves that technology stocks operate by a different set of financial rules. But this week, ordinary algebra reasserted itself.
Forget about finding a single, decisive explanation for the plunge. Everyone will seize a favored candidate. The important point is that when stocks lose touch with their economic moorings, anything -- an ugly inflation report, as occurred yesterday, or a judicial blow to a prominent company like Microsoft, which triggered an earlier slide -- can frighten investors.
In the recent past, investors have taken falling stock prices as a golden opportunity to buy, so stock prices have quickly rebounded. No one can know if that pattern will reappear when the markets open on Monday, but every study of stock prices is reassuring. Take any reasonably long-term period, and stock investments do just fine.
As a political footnote, it is worth adding that Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas will be watching the markets closely. Both Mr. Bush's tax-cut proposal and Mr. Gore's health and education plans depend on surplus revenues. A good chunk of the current surplus has been supplied by a boom in tax revenues from capital gains. A downturn could affect not only productivity and pocketbooks, but the way politicians and voters behave later this year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; EDITORIALS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



375 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Russian Legislature Approves Arms Treaty
Parliament's lower house approved the Start II treaty, the landmark agreement, negotiated seven years ago, that calls for cutting the American and Russian nuclear arsenals by half. The vote represented passage of Vladimir V. Putin's first legislative initiative since his election as president. The upper house must still approve the treaty, which is not in doubt. The United States Senate has yet to approve several protocols to Start II, and the Russians made clear that they would not implement Start II until the Senate acted. A1
 
The Clinton administration said Russia's action set the stage for Mr. Clinton and Mr. Putin to meet to begin the next stage of arms control. A6 

Serbs Seek Early Elections
At least 100,000 people jammed central Belgrade to demand early elections to oust the government of President Slobodan Milosevic. It was the first opposition rally since 1997 to bring together the two rival leaders of the main opposition parties. A3
 
Aiding Trade for Poorer Nations
House and Senate leaders reached agreement on a bill to give African and Caribbean countries wide-ranging trade benefits. A7
 
Search for Answers in Israel
A legislative committee is trying to unravel a tangled and troubling legacy of the Holocaust: the fate of bank accounts, plots of land and other assets that were held in Israel by Jews who died in the Holocaust. A6
 
Red Cross Considers Israel
A two-day meeting of governments and Red Cross representatives in Geneva began a process that could lead to Israel's admission to the relief organization after 50 years of exclusion. The action followed pressure by the American Red Cross to admit Israel's equivalent organization. A5
 
Holbrooke May Head to Congo
Richard C. Holbrooke, the American ambassador to the United Nations, agreed to lead a Security Council delegation early next month to Congo, where the council plans to send a peacekeeping mission this year.
Prospects for trip and the peacekeeping operation were put in doubt by reports of continued fighting, a day after a cease-fire was to have started. A4
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A8-12, 15, 18
 
'Secret' Classification Was Added During Inquiry
The computer files at the heart of the case against the former Los Alamos scientist Wen Ho Lee were given higher security classifications last year only after he was fired in the midst of an espionage investigation, defense lawyers and federal officials say. At the time Mr. Lee downloaded the files, they were classified but not labeled secret or confidential, as the indictment against him alleges. A1
 
U.S. Seeks Lifting of Stay
The Justice Department asked an appeals court to lift an injunction barring Elian Gonzalez's father from taking the boy back to Cuba, once Elian is in his custody. A9
 
Census Officials Concerned
Census officials said they saw new signs that many people were refusing to complete and return the longer version of the census form. A18
 
No Inquiry for General
The Pentagon's inspector general was said to have found no grounds to investigate an accusation of misconduct against Lt. Gen. Claudia J. Kennedy of the Army. A11
 
Consensus on H.M.O. Appeals
House and Senate negotiators reached tentative agreement on an appeals process for patients denied care by H.M.O's, a big issue in legislation to define patients' rights. A8
 
Politicians' Tax Returns
The Clintons paid federal taxes of $92,104, or 22.1 percent of their $416,039 income. The Gores paid $59,178, or 24.5 percent of their $240,930 income. Gov. George W. Bush plans to release a synopsis of his income tax return on Monday. A11
 
Clinton Faults Bush's Math
President Clinton suggested that Gov. George W. Bush needed a lesson in arithmetic, saying his proposals for education and promised tax cuts did not add up. A11
 
Several religious conservatives are warning against Gov. George W. Bush naming a running mate who supports abortion rights. A10
 
Changes at Los Angeles Times
John S. Carroll, editor of The Baltimore Sun, and John Puerner, publisher of The Orlando Sentinel, are expected to be named to those same jobs in Los Angeles. A11
 
Beliefs A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Mayor Delays Contracts On Welfare Research
The Giuliani administration pulled back on $17 million in contracts to consulting groups for research on its welfare-to-work plan. The move reflects concerns over an awards process that limited competition and was faulted in a court ruling. B1
 
Doctor Accused in Stabbing
A doctor at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx was arrested after repeatedly stabbing a nurse with a syringe that contained a labor-inducing drug, the police said. Hospital employees said the nurse was romantically involved with the doctor. B3
 
Giuliani Releases Tax Return
Mayor Giuliani and his wife, Donna Hanover, paid $112,600 in federal taxes on income of $413,155, which was nearly $100,000 less than they earned in 1998. They paid $41,600 in New York state and city taxes. B4
 
Plan to Protect Cab Drivers
Mayor Giuliani, responding to the sixth fatal shooting of a livery-cab driver this year, said the city would create a $5 million program for independently owned and operated livery and medallion taxis to have safety partitions or security cameras. B3
 
Corzine Issues Income Data
Jon S. Corzine, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for the Senate from New Jersey, earned nearly $100 million dollars as co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs, according to a summary of tax documents for 1996 through 1998. (He has filed for an extension for his 1999 returns.) B1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-19
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Tension Between Met Officials
General Manager Steve Phillips met with Manager Bobby Valentine in Pittsburgh to discuss critical remarks that Valentine made to a group of Students on Wednesday. D1
 
Pro Football Selections
The first round of the National Football League draft begins at noon, Eastern time, today. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Stocks Take a Dive
The Nasdaq fell 355.49 points, or 9.7 percent, to 3,321.29, its largest point decline ever. The index is down 34.2 percent, or 1,727 points, from its record high, which was set on March 10. The Dow fell 617.78 points, or 5.7 percent, to 10,305.77, while the S.& P. 500 lost 83.95 points, or 5.8 percent, to 1,356.56. A1
 
 
A 0.7 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index, a main inflation gauge, contributed to the huge sell-off because it showed that inflation, whose acceleration had been confined to fuel and energy, was spreading to other areas of the economy. C1
 
A Makeover at Ford
Ford announced a complex revamping of its ownership structure, including the payment of a $10 billion special dividend and the issuance of additional stock to the Ford family. C1
 
H.& R. Block Software Error
H.& R. Block warned 3,080 customers that income tax payments they authorized the I.R.S. to take from their bank accounts would not be made because of a software error. The payments now must be mailed, and the I.R.S. is weighing whether to waive late fees and penalties. C15
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: The market's breathtaking plunge; stopping the world; a Russian affirmation of arms control.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B17
 
TV Listings B19
 
Crossword B16
 
Weather B20
 
Public Lives A8 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (51%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GENOCIDE (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); HOLOCAUST (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); CENSUS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); INDICTMENTS (63%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); LAWYERS (60%); DISMISSALS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INJUNCTIONS (60%); ESPIONAGE (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



376 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: New Formula For Sharing State Funds Is Criticized

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, criticized state legislative leaders yesterday, singling out the New York City delegation, over a proposed $77 billion state budget that he said would shortchange the city of money the state distributes to municipalities.
Mr. Vallone said he had written to Gov. George E. Pataki, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, asking them to change a provision in the budget proposal that would use surplus funds to raise revenue-sharing appropriations by 5 percent around the state, excluding New York City. If the city were excluded, Mr. Vallone said, it would forgo $28 million during fiscal year 2001, which begins July 1. 
 "New York City is the engine that gave this surplus to the state," Mr. Vallone said, "and all we are asking for is our fair share."
But in a letter to Mr. Vallone, Mr. Silver defended the budget proposal, saying it was intended to help economically depressed parts of the state.
"Several upstate cities have not reaped the benefits of the current economic boom," Mr. Silver said. In a personal rebuke to Mr. Vallone, a candidate to succeed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in 2002, he said, "It is unfortunate that for your own personal benefit you have chosen to disparage the fine work of the entire city delegation."
Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, and the Assembly carried more weight than Mr. Bruno or the Senate in shaping the new revenue-sharing proposal. A separate Senate proposal would have extended the same 5 percent increase to New York City.
Mr. Silver's role in the matter may have other political dimensions, since he is widely believed to have supported a change in the revenue- sharing equation to provoke Mayor Giuliani. An aide to one senior state legislator who spoke on the condition of anonymity said yesterday that Mr. Silver, an outspoken supporter of Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign for the United States Senate, intended to place the mayor in the position of having to face off against upstate legislators over the budget, perhaps alienating upstate voters in his Senate bid.
Mr. Giuliani said at a news conference late yesterday that he supported Mr. Vallone's criticism, but he did so in a way that appeared politically cautious.
"It's not final yet," the mayor said of the proposed budget, which is expected to win approval sometime next week. "As for revenue sharing, it may not turn out that way.
"It is right for the speaker to note these issues and put some pressure on them to make sure the city does not get hurt too much."
He went on to repeat some of his positions on federal tax policy, including a call to reduce income taxes, that he said would help upstate voters.
Mr. Vallone, acknowledging that the city, with a strong economy, could forgo an increase in revenue sharing this year, said he was opposed to the new formula because it would set a precedent. In recent years, the city has received a nearly constant 57 percent of all state revenue-sharing funds, and its share would be reduced slightly in the proposed budget. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); TAX RELIEF (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



377 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE THIRD PARTIES;
Nader Runs Again, This Time With Feeling

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
The students with purple hair, the graying academics with Jerry Garcia beards and the union organizers with their anti-W.T.O. buttons had crowded into a college auditorium in Minneapolis to hear some red-meat -- make that green-vegetable -- radicalism. And Ralph Nader, America's foremost anti-corporate curmudgeon, did not disappoint:
Global corporations are sucking the life out of small businesses and family farms. Pollution is poisoning our rivers and air. Inner-city schools and health clinics are crumbling. And while the nation corrodes, the rich are buying and selling politicians like baseball cards. 
 "Big business is on a collision course with American democracy, and American democracy has been losing," said Mr. Nader, who in his dark suit was the most conventional-looking person in the room.
The man who became famous by killing off a sporty but unstable little car called the Corvair some 35 years ago is at it again, running for president on the Green Party line.
But unlike his previous presidential run, in 1996, when he refused to raise money, spent less than $5,000 and attracted barely 1 percent of the vote, this time he is serious, Mr. Nader insists.
"I specifically said I wasn't going to campaign in '96," he said in an interview. "This is a campaign."
Mr. Nader is cranking up that campaign just in time to step onto the world stage this weekend, when tens of thousands of protesters descend on Washington to demonstrate against the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Green Party affiliates from around the world are playing a major role in the protests, and Mr. Nader himself will address demonstrators near the White House on Sunday.
The goal of Mr. Nader's run is not to win, of course, but to get more than 5 percent of the vote, the number that would qualify him for millions in federal campaign matching funds that he says he would use to build the Green Party.
"If the Green Party breaks 5 percent, the Democratic Party won't be the same again," Mr. Nader, still irrepressibly dour and hauntingly hungry-looking at 66, said in reflecting on the prospect of undercutting the centrist Democratic Leadership Council and its president, Al From. "If you think Al From and the Democratic Leadership Council has a grip on the Democratic Party, wait and see what a significant and growing progressive third party can do."
Aides to Vice President Al Gore, the apparent Democratic nominee, say they are not losing sleep over a Nader challenge. Mr. Nader is not the most skillful of campaigners, and even many liberal allies question his ability to move voters. Further, the Green Party is better known for its internal squabbling than for its ability to run campaigns or raise money.
But Mr. Gore's yielding even a few percentage points to Mr. Nader would be damaging to the vice president if the election was tight. And a recent poll by the Zogby Group showed Mr. Nader receiving more support than Patrick J. Buchanan, the likely Reform Party nominee, 5 percent to 3 percent. The poll indicated that the vast majority of Mr. Nader's support came from Democrats and that he was doing particularly well in California, considered a vital state for Mr. Gore.
All of which suggests that an aggressive Nader campaign could entirely offset advantages Mr. Gore might gain from Mr. Buchanan's candidacy, which is expected to siphon votes from the apparent Republican nominee, Gov. George W. Bush.
Mr. Nader intends to remain a thorn in Mr. Gore's side by promoting causes that many liberals, large numbers of whom chose Bill Bradley in the Democratic primaries, say the Clinton administration has lacked the will to see through: universal health care, the environment, campaign finance reform and an attack on urban poverty.
And unlike Mr. Bradley, Mr. Nader is a fierce opponent of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the World Trade Organization, endearing him to traditionally Democratic union members who feel that the administration's free-trade policies have hurt American workers.
As evidence that this year will be different from 1996, Mr. Nader says he has hired 15 full-time campaign workers in Washington and will soon dispatch 10 others, perhaps former Bradley campaign organizers among them, to get the Green Party on the ballot in every state. (The party is already on the ballot in 13 states, including New York and California.)
He has also vowed to raise $5 million, and says he may get help from celebrities like Paul Newman, Warren Beatty, Susan Sarandon, Bonnie Raitt, Jackson Browne and the Indigo Girls. His first major fund-raising event, in Washington tonight, drew 300 people, who paid $25 to $1,000 each, adding to the $210,000 or so that the candidate's aides said they had already raised.
But to get anywhere near 5 percent of the vote, Mr. Nader will have to overcome some big obstacles, not the least of which is the Green Party itself. The party is notoriously disorganized and divided. Some members oppose any involvement in electoral politics; others are supporting another candidate, Jello Biafra, former lead singer of the rock group the Dead Kennedys.
And then there is Mr. Nader, who is the first to acknowledge that he is not the best campaigner. Gawky and prone to long speeches, he is also shy and painfully uncomfortable with asking people for their votes. When a Delta Air Lines worker stopped him in the Minneapolis airport last week and said, "I'm a big fan," all he could say in reply was "thanks."
"Campaigning takes a level of political ego I just don't have yet," he said after the man had sped off.
He is also notoriously private, refusing to tell even co-workers where he lives. (It is in an apartment he rents in the Dupont Circle section of Washington.) The only crumbs of biographical information he sprinkles into his hourlong speeches are passing references to the town of his birth, Winsted, Conn. Rarely does he mention that he is a son of Lebanese immigrants, that his father owned a restaurant, that he studied Chinese at Princeton and law at Harvard.
His secretiveness has spawned a host of dark theories among his critics. Some contend that he lives in a million-dollar town house here, not in the ill-furnished apartment of Nader lore. (Mr. Nader says the town house he has been spotted entering is his sister's.) They say that despite his seemingly penurious way of living, he is actually quite wealthy, that he purposely spent almost nothing on his 1996 campaign to skirt federal election laws, which require candidates who spend more than $5,000 to file reports disclosing their assets.
Mr. Nader says he will file a financial disclosure report next month. Despite the concerns he frequently voices about the dangers of too rapid an advance in technology, the report will show, he says, that he owns technology stocks. It will also disclose, he says, that he earned about $200,000 in speaking fees last year but gave half of it to charities. He says that most of the other half went toward "projects" and that he lives on about $25,000 a year.
Asked how so private a man could run for so public a job, Mr. Nader, a lifelong bachelor, replied: "When you work all the time, you don't have a problem in terms of private time. There is no private time."
Even among many on the left, Mr. Nader is not considered the dream candidate. In a recent essay in The Nation, Katha Pollitt complained that his 1996 campaign had focused too much on trade issues, to the exclusion of matters like race relations, health care, and gay and abortion rights.
"The idea of progressives cranking up an organization, raising funds, fomenting energy and enthusiasm on behalf of this doomed project," Ms. Pollitt wrote, "well, it's just too depressing. If working on Nader's campaign is the best way progressives can spend the next eight months, it's time to hire a hearse and lie down in it."
Mr. Nader, who says he is running partly at the behest of Green Party leaders, replied, "I think she ran out of material that week."
Still, his platform seems to reflect some of the criticisms of progressives like Ms. Pollitt. At the top is universal health care, followed by an antipoverty program built heavily on consumer-protection ideas, including provisions against loan discrimination by banks, high auto insurance rates and landlord abuses.
"Corporate welfare," one of his favorite issues, will also be front and center: he will campaign against tax breaks and government subsidies that allow big companies "to privatize profits and socialize risk."
And, in an effort to win support from social conservatives, he plans to attack big media corporations, saying they exploit children with racy programming and aggressive marketing practices.
Although he is counting on the anti-globalization protests this weekend to raise his national profile, Mr. Nader says his best hope for gaining attention would be to squeeze between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush in televised debates.
The commission that determines presidential debate participants has said a candidate must be receiving 15 percent in national polls to be included. Mr. Nader contends that the threshold is ridiculously high, and hopes to unite with Mr. Buchanan to protest it. And if he prevails, he says, he will pose in those debates the kind of questions that will spark interest in his campaign.
"Candidates are asked, 'What is your position on welfare, what is your position on crime?' " Mr. Nader said. "That's not the right question. It needs an adjective: 'What is your position on corporate welfare? What is your position on corporate crime?' We're going to open this up. We're going to provide adjectives to these issues."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Nader, who is aiming for at least 5 percent of the vote in the presidential election, received an award at New York University's School of Education on Thursday night, and stopped to speak with the conservative columnist Arianna Huffington. At left was Carl Mayer, a campaign aide. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GREEN PARTY GREEN PARTY (78%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY GREEN PARTY (78%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); BASEBALL (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (55%); 

PERSON: NADER, RALPH; DAO, JAMES RALPH NADER (92%); AL GORE (78%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



378 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Frenzy of Selling in Stocks Caps a Disastrous Week
Investors turned away from stocks in a sharp wave of selling that closed one of the worst weeks in the history of United States markets. The catalyst was a Department of Labor report showing that core consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in March, more than economists had predicted. 
 The Nasdaq composite index plunged 355.49 points, or 9.7 percent, to 3,321.29, finishing the worst week in its history with a 25.3 percent loss. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 617.78 points, or 5.7 percent, to 10,305.77. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 83.95 points, or 5.8 percent, to 1,356.56. Page A1.
 
A Breather for a Hot Economy?
The American economy boomed as the stock market, particularly technology stocks, soared. Now, with those stocks suddenly much lower, will the economy cool off quickly? Some economists think consumer spending will slow, but that will depend on psychology as much as economics. News Analysis. A1.
 
Software Glitch at H & R Block
H & R Block warned 3,080 customers who used the company's tax-preparation software that payments they authorized the Internal Revenue Service to take from their bank accounts will not be made because of a software error. The affected taxpayers must mail their payments to the I.R.S., which is reviewing the accounts to determine whether late fees or penalties should be waived. The company said it would pay any penalties or interest. C15.
 
Vote Backs Nasdaq Public Offering
Members of the National Association of Securities Dealers voted overwhelmingly to turn the Nasdaq stock market into a for-profit company. The approval clears the way for the association to sell Nasdaq by September. C3.
 
Agreement Reached on Trade Bill
House and Senate leaders have reached agreement on a bill to give African and Caribbean countries wide-ranging trade benefits intended to help their flagging economies. A1.
 
New Leaders at Los Angeles Times
The Los Angeles Times is about to be turned over to new leadership. According to editors briefed by top newsroom leaders, Michael Parks, the editor, will be replaced by John S. Carroll, the editor of The Baltimore Sun. The publisher, Kathryn M. Downing, will be replaced by John Puerner, the publisher of The Orlando Sentinel. A11.
 
Businesses Cautious on Zimbabwe
The South African Chamber of Business urged its 40,000 members this week to delay any new investment in Zimbabwe, its crisis-ridden neighbor. Hundreds of farms in Zimbabwe have been raided in recent weeks by black squatters, raising concern about the country's important agricultural sector and heightening fears about the political situation. C2.
 
Sao Paulo Facing a Debt Crisis
In Sao Paulo, Brazil, Mayor Celso Pitta is embroiled in a scandal that includes an estranged wife, accusations of vote-buying in the city council and a questionable loan worth nearly $500,000. Yet the most pressing crisis is that the city is facing the prospect of drowning in about $4 billion in debt it cannot repay. C2.
 
BMW Gets a Counterbid for Rover
BMW of Germany said that it had received a counterbid for its money-losing Rover division from a British consortium seeking to rescue the Rover name and thwart plans by Alchemy Partners, a venture capital firm, to turn the company into a niche producer. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,305.77 down 617.78
Nasdaq composite -- 3,321.29 down 355.49
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.78% down 0.01
The euro -- $0.9596 up 0.0054
The dollar -- 105.09 yen down 0.74
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones Industrial average and the Nasdaq composite since March 10th.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (55%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (55%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); H & R BLOCK INC (55%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (53%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (72%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); MAYORS (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); POLITICS (62%); ELECTION FRAUD (61%); AGRICULTURE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



379 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Globalization Unifies Its Many-Striped Foes

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
Protesters for global justice call their headquarters a convergence center, and the abandoned downtown warehouse does seem to attract all kinds.
Propped up against a mound of backpacks and surrounded by the remnants of a donated macrobiotic lunch was James Osborne, 23, a self-described transient from St. Louis. Mr. Osborne said he took a Greyhound bus to Washington because someone told him about destructive pipeline projects and bad trade policies. "I believe there should be no leadership and no organization," he said, though he rejected the label of anarchist. 
 Not far away, David H. Richardson, 57, an economist at the Department of Labor, checked the schedule for civil disobedience actions intended to shut down the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Richardson, a shop steward of the American Federation of Government Employees, said he worked hard to persuade the national union to endorse the officially sanctioned portion of the demonstrations scheduled for Sunday, which it did.
"Labor is at the point that it needs support from outside the movement," Mr. Richardson said, looking a little like a school headmaster. "Globalization brings a lot of different people together."
If they accomplish nothing else, the protests this week against the financial institutions and in favor of debt relief for the third world seem likely to confirm Mr. Richardson's observation.
Globalization and the backlash against it bring disparate people together. The call to temper the capitalism around the globe comes from parties as diverse as the Catholic Church and a cell of anarchists, and many people and organizations in between.
The question is whether members of this unlikely coalition of protesters and interest groups will, like so many grains of sand blown together, scatter once they make a collective point or achieve individual goals.
Or, as some leaders hope, whether it is the foundation of a new social movement that will apply sustained pressure on national governments and international institutions to rewrite the rules of globalization and limit the power of corporations.
Though some environmental groups began pressuring international financial institutions to become more ecologically sensitive two decades ago, and groups wary of globalism became a popular force in Europe long before they attracted attention in the United States, the movement is still in its infancy.
The Big Bang for American organizers came only a few months ago, during the Seattle protests against the World Trade Organization, when they took credit not only for befuddling police but also for contributing to the collapse of world trade talks.
The Washington protests, which began last Sunday with a quiet rally for debt forgiveness and will culminate this Sunday with an effort to prevent world finance ministers from attending the spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, are the second big test for the movement. While it is having some social and political impact, its main achievement is probably logistical, uniting groups with different agendas around a common cause and attracting new recruits, especially college students and unionized workers.
"I met some steelworkers and we bonded right away," said Margareta Lelea, 20, a sophomore at the University of California-Davis who is majoring in agricultural development. Ms. Lelea, who wore a stick-on green star on her face for "ecological awareness," came early to Washington to attend nonviolence training seminars at the convergence center. It is the first major protest she has attended, though she sympathized with those who opposed NATO's bombing of Kosovo last year.
"I never thought of union people as interested in the same issues, but they are," she said. "There's all kinds of interconnections being made. Without interconnections there's no progress."
The joke among lieutenants who pulled together the protest is that there are as many 501-C-3's in their ranks as there are people, a reference to the Internal Revenue Service form that independent, nonprofit groups must file each year. The movement against the international financial organizations is in some ways less a mobilization of the masses than a convention of citizens groups that have individual agendas, fund-raising campaigns, and, in many cases, leaders with large egos.
"The way we got people together is that we let everyone represent their group. They don't have to join our group," said Kevin Danaher, a founder of Global Exchange, a social issues campaigner and one of the groups instrumental in igniting the protests in Seattle and Washington. "It's a lot easier for people to compromise when they don't really have to subordinate their egos."
Mr. Danaher, 49, tall and bald with a white goatee, traces his roots as a protester to the anti-apartheid movement in the 1980's. More recently, he has led campaigns against Nike, persuading the company to improve conditions for foreign factory workers, and against Starbucks, successfully urging the chain to sell coffee produced under the TransFair "fair trade" label, which claims profits are shared with farmers.
He is has traveled the country, speaking at scores of campuses as a kind of Paul Revere of globalization's woes. But he described himself as just an adviser to the protests against the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
The movement, Mr. Danaher said, has thrived in part because it rejects the straitjacket of a typical political or social movement, with leaders and head offices and official strategies. That allows groups to flow in and out.
The unofficial lieutenants of the Mobilization for Global Justice, as the Washington protests were named, have used the Internet to bridge environmental, religious, labor and student groups that would otherwise not be in regular contact, some 500 of them in total.
They created an Internet mail group of people willing to press a campaign against globalization's main agents. They use "vibe monitors" to make sure everyone stays civil at strategy sessions.
The phenomenon of citizens groups autonomously coordinating strategy sounds arcane, but it has proved its effectiveness. A Rand Corporation study for the Pentagon detailed how Mexico's Zapatista rebel movement in 1994 used publicity tactics -- a "social netwar," the study dubbed it -- to generate support abroad for its campaign against the North American Free Trade Agreement. The study said swarms of independent citizens groups can prove far more effective than hierarchical movements when combating established institutions because they can't easily be "decapitated."
Mr. Danaher admires the Zapatista model. "We also have a mosquito-bite strategy," he said.
That may be the movement's strength, but it is also a weakness.
Some of the main backers worry that the movement's successes to date have been purely tactical -- headline-grabbing civil disobedience and a flair for organization. They fear that the coalition could blow apart as quickly as it came together.
Already, the strains are showing.
Though religious groups are one of the main forces behind debt relief, they have refrained from any direct involvement in the demonstrations this Sunday. Instead, they scheduled their own rally last Sunday.
Oxfam and Greenpeace, two of the best-known names in social and environmental activism, have severed formal ties to one of the major coalitions of protesters, though members of both groups are still participating in the protests.
The split came about partly over goals. Oxfam officials, for example, say they have made progress trying to reform the World Bank, and getting governments to agree to debt relief. Global Exchange, in contrast, wants the bank and fund abolished.
"Too much of this has been about tactics, getting all these groups together and keeping things moving," said John Sellers, of the Ruckus Society, based in Berkeley, Calif.
The observation is especially poignant coming from Mr. Sellers, who runs training camps around the country to teach varied protesters the mechanics of civil disobedience.
Over a beer at a Washington bookshop-cafe one recent evening, Mr. Sellers seemed unsure whether the movement can sustain momentum.
"I guess if we're going to have a center of gravity we have to figure out really what we want and where we go from here," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters against world trade policies took part yesterday in workshops at a "convergence center" in a former warehouse in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); GLOBALIZATION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); RIOTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (52%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH DAVID H RICHARDSON (71%); MARGARETA LELEA (55%); JAMES OSBORNE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



380 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
SOLECTRON TO MOVE 850ATLANTA JOBS TO MEXICO

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Solectron Corporation plans to move 850 jobs, or more than half of its work force, from its cellular telephone manufacturing plant in suburban Atlanta to its plant in Guadalajara, Mexico. Of the cuts, 475 are full-time jobs and 375 are temporary. The plant employs about 1,500 people. Fred Forsyth, president of Solectron Americas, said yesterday that the company was forced to move the jobs to Mexico to stay competitive in the cell phone business. Solectron employs about 6,700 workers in Guadalajara. Solectron, which is based in Milpitas, Calif., and makes electronic equipment, said the jobs would be moved by July. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FLEX (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: SOLECTRON CORP (SLR) FLEXTRONICS INTERNATIONAL LTD (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOLECTRON CORP (SLR)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



381 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: First Lady Criticizes Giuliani's Call for Tax Cuts and Urges Paying Debt

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WOODBURY, N.Y., April 14

 BODY:
Highlighting what has emerged as perhaps the sharpest policy difference between them in the Senate race, Hillary Rodham Clinton asserted today that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's call for deep, across-the-board tax cuts financed by the national surplus was a threat to prosperity.
Instead, Mrs. Clinton said, the surplus should be used primarily to pay off the national debt, and she offered a plan to do that by 2013. 
 Mrs. Clinton, taking a position that closely tracks President Clinton's posture in Congressional budget talks, said that she would support using only $250 billion of the projected $746 billion surplus for tax cuts, and that the reductions should be directed at specific groups, like first-time home-buyers and parents putting children through college.
By contrast, Mr. Giuliani, answering questions about Mrs. Clinton's proposal at a news conference at City Hall, said he would support sizable cuts in personal and capital gains tax rates. Although he declined to endorse any specific plan, he clearly sided with Congressional Republicans who are pushing a tax cut plan that could be twice as large as that advocated by Democrats.
Mrs. Clinton offered her views on taxes, the national debt and the surplus -- subjects that seem likely to shape many Congressional elections this year, including the one in New York -- in a speech in which she sought to present herself as the fiscal conservative in the race for Senate.
Mrs. Clinton repeatedly assailed Republican tax proposals as "risky," as she offered herself as a lifelong advocate of fiscal discipline and approvingly noted Mr. Clinton's successful effort to eliminate the deficit during his presidency.
"I want to be -- and I will be -- a steady and strong voice for fiscal discipline and a balanced budget in the United States," Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic candidate for Senate, said to 1,300 people who turned up for a breakfast here sponsored by the Long Island Association, a Commack-based business group. "I grew up with a father who didn't believe in credit cards, who paid cash for our house. And I have a hard time breaking those habits, and will put them to work in the Senate."
Mr. Giuliani told reporters in Manhattan that he believed that sizable reductions in both the income and capital gains tax rates would be a boon to New York State's economy, and would be particularly helpful upstate, which has suffered economic decline.
"It's the best way to help upstate New York," Mr. Giuliani said. "If you want to help upstate New York cut some of the taxes, particularly the income tax, where we disproportionally pay it, and you're going to leave money in the upstate economy, that then can be used for more jobs, more commercial activity, more economic activity."
Their remarks today underscored a strong point of disagreement between two candidates who share a number of similar views. With his comments, Mr. Giuliani signaled that he -- like his party's presumed presidential candidate, George W. Bush -- believed that cutting taxes was an issue that held sway with voters, notwithstanding evidence in polling and some recent political contests that it is not as potent an issue as it once was.
Mrs. Clinton is embarking on a fairly unorthodox route in her campaign: running against a tax cut. That said, her emphasis on eliminating the $3.5 trillion debt is part of her continuing effort to portray herself as a moderate Democrat, at a time when Mr. Giuliani has sought to present her as far more liberal than most New York voters.
The first lady's speech contained a fairly detailed accounting of some of her economic positions, and represented, to some extent, an attempt to point up what she has called Mr. Giuliani's reluctance to talk about how he would vote in the Senate.
Mr. Giuliani was invited along with Mrs. Clinton to offer his views on the economy to the Long Island Association, its president, Matthew T. Crosson, said today. "Mrs. Clinton accepted the invitation and is with us this morning," Mr. Crosson told the audience. "Mayor Giuliani has yet to respond."
A spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani said tonight that the Long Island Association had asked him to commit to the date a month in advance, which, she said, he was unable to do because of the demands of his job.
At City Hall, Mr. Giuliani would not comment on the details of Mrs. Clinton's proposal. "I haven't seen her plan," the mayor said. "I've been at two funerals and a wake today, so I have not had a chance to see her plan and don't intend to give you a reaction to it just because she wants one today."
As reporters pressed Mr. Giuliani to offer details of his views on the subject, he responded: "Oh, come on, Mrs. Clinton, Mrs. Clinton. You guys, you're unbelievable. You're, like, knee-jerk, knee-jerk, knee-jerk. Thank you!" As he walked away from the lectern, he tossed a parting shot to the reporters gathered in City Hall's Blue Room: "Join the Democratic National Committee."
Until today, Mrs. Clinton has repeatedly said that education is the most pressing issue facing the nation. Today, she suggested that it was the economy, in language that echoed a famous sign on the wall of Mr. Clinton's campaign headquarters in Little Rock in 1992.
"Every time someone asks me what I would work on first and foremost in the Senate, my answer is always the economy," she said. "Because it still is the economy."
There is a dispute between Republicans and Democrats about the size of the projected 10-year surplus; Mrs. Clinton, like her husband and most Democrats, embraced the lower figure of about $750 billion. Of that, she said, 40 percent, or $350 billion, should go to paying off the national debt, with $250 billion for tax cuts. The remaining $150 billion, Mrs. Clinton's aides said, would go to financing various programs, like a prescription drug plan for Medicare.
In offering her proposal, Mrs. Clinton -- using language that echoed much of what Mr. Clinton has said -- asserted that the tax cuts proposed by the Republicans would undermine the prosperity that Mrs. Clinton said was the result of the economic policies of the last seven years.
"I will not support a tax cut that would force us to abandon the force of fiscal discipline and spend the surplus before we have paid down the debt," she said. "We all know that some of the noisiest voices in our country are those who say we should spend the surplus on a large, untargeted, across-the-board tax cut. You know, the road to risky tax cuts may appear to be easy -- and it certainly has short-term political gain attached to it -- but it will, inevitably and ultimately, lead to exploding deficits and a return to the higher interest rates."
Mr. Giuliani said he would "fight really, really hard" for two tax cuts that he argued would help New York's economy.
"One would be the income tax," he said. "That would leave money in the New York economy, because we pay a higher income tax per capita than most of the rest of the country. The second tax that would be a windfall for New York would be to reduce or eliminate the capital gains tax, because it would stimulate a hometown industry, and create a lot more activity there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton answered questions yesterday in Woodbury, N.Y., at a breakfast for 1,300 sponsored by the Long Island Association. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



382 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
STOCK MARKET IN STEEP DROP AS WORRIED INVESTORS FLEE; NASDAQ HAS ITS WORST WEEK

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER and ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Investors turned away from stocks yesterday in sharp waves of selling that closed one of the worst weeks in the history of United States markets.
The beleaguered Nasdaq index plunged nearly 10 percent to finish the worst week in its history with a 25.3 percent loss. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.66 percent and ended the week down 7.3 percent in its worst performance since 1989. Both indexes had their biggest losses ever in terms of points yesterday, and both finished the day near yesterday's lows, a development that does not bode well for Monday. 
 The catalyst for yesterday's sell-off was a Labor Department report that core consumer prices -- excluding food and energy -- had risen 0.4 percent in March, more than economists had predicted.
That news caused investors to dump technology stocks, deepening a rout that began in mid-March and has sent shares in many well-known technology companies down 30, 40 or even 50 percent in just three weeks.
But as the day wore on, the selling spread across the board. While technology stocks led the plunge, few companies escaped unscathed. All 30 stocks in the Dow fell, while all but 16 stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped. And only 5 of the 100 biggest companies in the Nasdaq index managed to finish up on the day.
"The market was levitating on hope and irrational concepts of stock market value, and now it's coming down to earth, but it's probably not down yet," said Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
On the positive side, the outlook for the economy, despite a surge in inflation last month, is still good. And if a decline in the market helps dampen consumer spending, the Federal Reserve may be able to get the economic slowdown it has been gunning for since last June.
The stock rout began on March 28 when Goldman, Sachs's chief investment strategist, Abby Joseph Cohen, warned that technology stocks were "no longer undervalued." The selling deepened the next week after a federal judge ruled against Microsoft in its antitrust case with the government, a decision that seemed to finally pull the rug out from the technology sector.
And while a lot of the so-called old-economy stocks resisted at first, they have now been caught in the downdraft.
Traders and investors offered many rationales yesterday for the deepening skid, with the most common explanation involving overextended investors who have to sell stocks to pay off margin loans and tax bills.
But underlying the explanations was a deepening sense of worry that this sell-off would not follow the pattern of previous years, in which nearly any slide was followed by an immediate and strong bounce. Many of the investors who were most enthusiastic about high-flying technology stocks have no spare cash left to invest.
More conservative investors are not yet ready to buy technology issues, many of which remain quite expensive by historical standards, with price-earnings ratios of 100 or higher despite their recent slide.
Even so, the sell-off has already proven painful for many investors. Between Monday and Friday, investors lost more than $2 trillion, or $7,000 on average for each person in the United States, according to Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak & Company.
Meanwhile, short-sellers, who make money on market declines and have been battered over the last several years by what they see as the irrationality of many technology investors, said yesterday's action vindicated their long-held views that many stocks were overvalued.
"The lesson is going to be the market is not a game, the market is not a casino, it's a serious thing for serious people, and if you're wrong, be prepared to lose," said Marc Cohodes, general partner of Rocker Partners, a hedge fund that has both long and short positions. "There are some people who are broke, and they only have themselves to blame."
There are signs in stock mutual fund data that fresh money is still flowing nicely into stock funds and that those who have sold technology stock have bought stock in other companies, rather than abandoning the stock market. But many would-be buyers yesterday seemed content to wait for shares to fall even further, rather than jumping in as they often have when a market plunge made companies look cheap.
Jim Welch, who stopped by a Charles Schwab branch in midtown Manhattan around 1 p.m. to check his account, said he thought technology stocks were still too expensive. Mr. Welch, 64, a stock market veteran, said he might step in to buy technology shares if the sell-off continued "for a month or two."
In Washington, government officials played down the effects of the plunge, saying there were no signs that it had put any major strains on the financial system.
The Securities and Exchange Commission said in a statement that "clearing systems and the markets are successfully dealing with processing orders and distributing price information."
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers told CNN that the government was "watching developments in markets as we always do," but that the economy remained fundamentally strong.
Government officials said there had been no need to convene the working group of top financial officials that coordinates a response in the event of a market crisis.
In a speech earlier in the day, Mr. Greenspan warned banks and investment firms not to be complacent about risk, but he did not comment on the markets or on the outlook for further interest rate increases.
With its 355.49 point decline, the largest ever, to 3321.29, the Nasdaq fell 9.67 percent yesterday, its second-worst daily decline in percentage terms. The technology-heavy index is now down 34.2 percent, or 1,727 points, since its record high of March 10. That is well into bear market territory, which is considered a decline of at least 20 percent from the most recent record high. And it is just short of the 35.9 percent decline, peak to trough, in 1987.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 617.78 points, or 5.66 percent, to 10,305.77, is off 8.7 percent since Tuesday.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index, meanwhile, finished the day down 83.95 points, or 5.83 percent, at 1,356.56, and is now down 11.2 percent from its record high on March 24.
By most standards, the news on inflation, although not terrible, was unexpectedly bad. Core consumer prices jumped 0.4 of 1 percent in March, the largest monthly increase in more than five years.
That report, coupled with the recent rise in hourly earnings, intensified the threat of rate increases from the Federal Reserve, which has already raised its short-term interest rate target a quarter of a point five times since June.
But before yesterday many investors could argue that there was no pressure on the Federal Reserve to move aggressively to slow growth because there was no sign of inflationary pressure, outside the recent surge in oil and gasoline prices. Yesterday's report blunted that hope.
"In a less pregnant moment, people would say it's the first bad core C.P.I. number in some time and let's wait for another one," said Robert Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company in Rye Brook, N.Y. "But because the economy is flat out booming and the stock market is so expensive, no one is going to wait around for the next three," he said. "This could unsettle the Fed and the markets enough to make the economy have a harder landing."
For investors looking into next week, the question is whether the doubts generated by this sell-off, and the volatility associated with it, will be able to be overcome by the good news on first quarter earnings, which begin to come out in earnest next week, and the still positive outlook for the economy.
"This is not a problem of the economy or of earnings," said Mr. Wien of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "They are both doing well." Morgan Stanley is forecasting first-quarter earnings growth for the S.& P. 500 of about 20 percent, compared with the first quarter of 1999. For the technology sector, earnings should rise about 30 percent.
The consumer price report initially sent Treasury prices plunging as investors feared that higher inflation would erode the value of their bonds. Yields, which move in the opposite direction of prices, shot higher. For instance, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note leapt to 6.02 percent, from 5.91 percent Thursday.
But as the selling in the stock market accelerated, some investors seemed to take refuge in Treasuries and the bond market gained. In late trading, the 10-year note rallied, with the yield dropping to 5.85 percent.
The flow of money into mutual funds indicates that investors have not lost their taste for stocks. Instead, they seem to be shifting money from one sector to another.
According to AMG Data Services, which tracks mutual fund flows, $8.4 billion flowed into equity mutual funds in the week ending Wednesday April 12. Nearly half of that rushed into large cap growth funds, which concentrate their investment in what are now called old-economy companies.
But still $923 million flowed into technology mutual funds and $1.8 billion into what are called aggressive growth funds, which also invest in technology stocks.
According to Robert Adler, the president of AMG, there was an outflow of $760 million from technology funds in the week ending April 5. That was the first net outflow from such funds since August of 1999 and the largest weekly outflow he has recorded. But that outflow was more than offset this week.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by the Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Bad Day Ends Bad Week"
A trader on the New York Stock Exchange paused to collect himself yesterday after stocks in the Nasdaq composite, shown here, and the Dow Jones industrial average plunged.
(Source: Bridge Information Systems)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "A Wild Two Weeks"
Technology stocks have taken a beating recently, but other sectors have also suffered. Here is the cumulative change in four indexes, plotted at 15 minute intervals.
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite, Dow Jones Industrial average and The Street.com Internet index for the past two weeks.
(Sources: Bridge Information Systems; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "Down for the Count"
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index are both down for the year.
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial index since January.
-10.36%, year-to-date
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite index since January.
-18.38%, year-to-date
 
Dow's worst performers
Change, year-to-date
Procter & Gamble: -42.50%
Microsoft: -36.51
International Paper: -28.90
Johnson & Johnson: -21.38
Wal-Mart Stores: -20.43
American Express: -19.40
Coca-Cola: -19.31
Alcoa: -18.60
McDonald's: -16.74
Home Depot: -12.36
 
Nasdaq 100's worst performers
Change, year-to-date
Legato Systems: -77.38%
VISX: -71.38
Parametric Technology: -69.17
Compuware: -67.45
CMGI: -62.39
Novell: -52.11
Lycos: -51.77
BMC Software: -51.21
Cnet Networks: -51.10
At Home: -49.27
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "Buying on Credit"
The growth rate of debt in margin accounts has accelerated over the last year and is at its highest level in a decade.
 
Graph tracks year-to-year change in money owed in margin accounts since 1990.
(Source: New York Stock Exchange via Haver Analytics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BONDS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; BERENSON, ALEX

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



383 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: An Effort To Preserve A Monolith

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN 

 BODY:
In a city where putting up buildings, tearing them down and protesting in the streets are part of daily life, this demonstration was somewhat different.
There was the writer Tom Wolfe in a pale checked suit, the architect Robert M. Stern and a corps of New York City's preservationist elite. And behind them yesterday was a building with no windows other than footwide portholes, tennis racket-shaped columns and arches evoking Venetian palaces. 
 The building is 2 Columbus Circle, the white marble monolith on the southern end of the circle that has looked up Central Park West and Broadway since 1964. Vacant for two years, the property has been put up for development by the city, drawing fears from preservationists that it will be torn down for an office or apartment building.
Once the home of the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, 2 Columbus Circle was designed by the architect Edward Durell Stone for Huntington Hartford, the heir to the A.& P. supermarket fortune. It was built to house Mr. Hartford's art collection, and his name is still inscribed in front.
The New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission has declined to give it landmark status, and the city's Economic Development Corporation is soliciting bids from developers, calling it "prime location for residential apartments, as well as hotel and other commercials uses." The deadline is May 2.
The city's proffer, plus a previous bid by Donald J. Trump to build a 12-story hotel, translated into the fears that Stone's building would fall.
Now, support for the building is growing. Its circle of public champions has widened to include Mr. Wolfe and some local politicians.
"I think this is one of the few candles lit in the dark ages of New York architecture, which ran from the 1950's almost to the present day," said Mr. Wolfe, who said he held his first book party in the Gauguin Room, a two-story restaurant that was then atop the building.
Preservationists may take heart from Mr. Trump, who owns a complex across the circle and suggested yesterday that he might not go forward with his plans for 2 Columbus Circle. "It's so small, it's very possible that I won't be bidding," Mr. Trump said. "It's very tough to make any money there."
Whether he bids or not, Mr. Trump gave the building an aesthetic demolition. "I think it belongs in the middle of Jiddah, not in the middle of New York City," he said of Stone's work. "He's a very important architect. It is a very unimportant building."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is also said to be no great admirer of 2 Columbus Circle. Former Mayor Edward I. Koch has called the building downright ugly.
Even some preservationists are not convinced of its merits. Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, said that the organization's board was deeply divided about whether the building deserved landmark status. She and others at yesterday's protest said they were merely calling for an open hearing by the Landmarks Commission.
After the earlier request for proposals on the site, in 1997, the city also received a bid from the Dahesh Museum, which wants to leave its cramped quarters on Fifth Avenue and 48th Street. The museum is based on the collection of a Lebanese writer who favored 19th century academic art.
But that round of bidding was suspended after developers were chosen for the nearby Coliseum site, where the $1.6 billion Columbus Center is rising, city development officials have said. City officials said the construction would change the area, and they wanted to give prospective bidders a chance to reassess it.
But a person familiar with the negotiations at the time said that the bidding was suspended because there were only two entrants -- the Dahesh, with a $10 million proposal, and Mr. Trump, for less -- and because the bids were too low.
The Landmarks Conservancy has complained that the city's new offering encourages a commercial use at the site, since a commercial property would bring in more tax revenue to the city.
To architects like Mr. Stern, the building is worth preserving regardless of what would be put up in its stead.
"To tear it down to build another apartment house or condo is preposterous," Mr. Stern said.
Others defenders include State Representative Richard N. Gottfried, State Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, City Councilwoman Ronnie Eldridge and leaders of the local Democratic Party club.
The man who was responsible for it all, Mr. Hartford, is 90 and in a nursing home, his daughter Juliet Hartford said.
"He never could believe it would be torn down," Ms. Hartford said. "When I tell him, he thinks I'm kidding."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Wolfe with City Councilwoman Ronnie Eldridge, left, and Peg Breen of the New York Landmarks Conservancy at 2 Columbus Circle. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; TWO COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC) MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RIOTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); 

PERSON: WAKIN, DANIEL J; WOLFE, TOM DONALD TRUMP (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



384 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Valentine's Comments Prompt Visit by Phillips

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, April 14

 BODY:
Mets General Manager Steve Phillips goes to great lengths to edit himself, to keep private everything that is remotely controversial. His manager does not share this trait; it is Bobby Valentine's nature to speak his mind, even when that may not be appropriate. The question of whether two such divergent personalities can coexist is alive again.
Phillips, who had planned to scout a Mets minor league team this weekend, flew instead to Pittsburgh today to try to put out the latest fire sparked by Valentine's comments. 
 On Wednesday, Valentine, responding to an e-mail request from a student, spoke to about 100 students at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. The topic of the 90-minute talk was the business of baseball, but Valentine also spent time answering questions about the Mets. That was where the trouble started.
Valentine said he told the students not to repeat what he said, but one student recounted Valentine's opinions in a message on the Mets' official Web site early Thursday morning. According to the student, who identified himself as Brad34, Valentine said he was not in favor of the signing of Todd Zeile to play first base, that he is forced by management to start Derek Bell because of Bell's high salary, and that he did not understand the trade of pitcher Masato Yoshii, among other critical comments.
"This is ridiculous," Valentine said of the controversy surrounding the comments. "More than ridiculous. It's outrageous. I had little conversations, I addressed the whole group, I talked to guys privately. For it to be an issue with you guys and my team and the front office I think is ludicrous."
But it has become an issue, partly because it is not the first time Valentine has made negative comments. In an article in Sports Illustrated late last season, Valentine said there were "five losers" in the Mets' clubhouse, and he boasted that he could expose the ignorance of other managers. Also late last year, he made his uncertain future an even bigger issue by saying he should not return if the Mets failed to make the playoffs.
Valentine, like Phillips, is unsigned past this season, and in spring training, the co-owner Fred Wilpon said Valentine would have to be accountable for his words. Wilpon declined to comment tonight, saying he would speak to the news media after he had spoken to Phillips.
Phillips said this issue would not affect Valentine's status. "It's something that I need to talk to him about," Phillips said, "but he's not going to get fired over this."
Phillips said his absence in Pittsburgh would have been more conspicuous than his presence, and he felt he needed to come to Three Rivers Stadium to meet with Valentine and representatives of the news media. He spoke with Valentine by telephone after Thursday's game, and met with him for 10 minutes before tonight's game against the Pirates. Phillips would not characterize those conversations, but he was not happy when he read the posting on the Web site.
"I was surprised and curious," said Phillips, who walked out of the stadium with Valentine after the game and planned to discuss the issue further. "Surprised in a bad way."
The message was deleted from the Web site this afternoon; Phillips said the company that filters postings on the Mets' site took it down, independent of the club.
Valentine confirmed that he had discussed all the topics noted, but he disputed the context, said he was not really saying anything new, and characterized many of his responses as "yes" or "no."
On the Web site, Valentine was said to have favored signing the Japanese reliever Kazuhiro Sasaki over Zeile, and that Jorge Toca and Matt Franco could have been adequate replacements for John Olerud at first base. Valentine said that he was asked by a Japanese student if the Mets had considered Sasaki, but that he never said he preferred Sasaki to Zeile; he also said at the start of the winter that Franco and Toca could fill Olerud's spot, if needed.
Valentine spoke to Zeile for a few minutes around the batting cage before the game. Zeile said he was not taking this seriously.
"This is something that I guess makes more interesting propaganda for people outside the loop, because I don't particularly care," Zeile said. "It is what it is, and it's not going to affect my feelings here one way or the other, my effort or my performance or anything else. I'm not in any rush to make an issue out of something I don't even know conclusively about."
As for Bell, Valentine said: "I'm sure I said a guy who's making a lot of money should play. That's the economics of it." But, Valentine said, a player of Bell's status has earned the right to continue playing despite early-season struggles.
Bell was testy when first told of the Web site report, but he later explained he was only joking. He peeked into the manager's office while Valentine was addressing reporters, and assured Valentine that the incident would not come between them.
"Bobby loves me, and I respect him to the utmost," Bell said.
Valentine said he did understand the trade of Yoshii to Colorado, but that several of the Mets' plans for replacing Yoshii did not work out.
Phillips said the incident could be "a potential distraction," but in an interview on the Mets' telecast during tonight's game, he said the same passion that sometimes gets Valentine in trouble also makes Valentine a good manager.
Valentine sounded as if he felt his privacy had been violated by a new medium.
When asked if this issue would affect his relationship with Phillips, which was already uneasy, he said: "It might. Maybe it'll bring us closer. Maybe we'll get down to issues of the baseball team rather than issues of the media.
"Because this takes it another step, I think -- Internet chat rooms takes it to a whole other step. Now it's going to be that I said something to the guy in the cab, or the guy in the restaurant. I don't know if any of this stuff is substantiated or ever will be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bobby Valentine before last night's game. His off-the-record comments to a student group were posted on the Mets' Web site. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS THREE RIVERS TIMBER (50%); NEW YORK METS (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); 

PERSON: KEPNER, TYLER; VALENTINE, BOBBY; PHILLIPS, STEVE BOBBY VALENTINE (98%); STEVE PHILLIPS (91%); TODD ZEILE (73%); DEREK BELL (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



385 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: After Deaths, City Plans Millions for Livery-Cab Safety

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM 

 BODY:
Hours after the fatal shooting of the sixth livery-cab driver slain this year in his car, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said the city would create a $5 million program to provide independently owned and operated livery and medallion taxis with safety partitions or security cameras.
The mayor announced the initiative, to be administered by the Taxi and Limousine Commission and the Police Department, at a City Hall news conference yesterday afternoon. 
 A short while earlier, livery drivers had gathered at the site of the killing in the Longwood section of the Bronx to honor the dead man and ask the city for a number of measures, including partitions and cameras.
Mr. Giuliani said the program would be financed through the city's Economic Development Corporation. The money would buy $400 bullet-resistant partitions or digital security cameras, which officials said cost $600 to $800.
"The safety of these drivers is very important to the city, and this program will provide meaningful relief," Mr. Giuliani said in a prepared statement. Eleven livery-cab drivers were killed on the job in 1999. So far this year, three drivers have been killed in the Bronx, two in Brooklyn and one in Queens.
The mayor said he had offered his condolences to the widow of Luis Francisco Perez, the driver slain yesterday, and had told her that the police were doing everything they could to catch the killer.
Mr. Perez, 30, who had worked as a livery driver for Premium Radio Dispatch for three years, was shot twice in the head around 12:30 a.m. in his Lincoln Town Car on a street dotted with auto repair shops beneath the elevated Bruckner Expressway, the police said.
Although they have reached no conclusions about the motive for the killing, investigators said that Mr. Perez was probably not killed during a robbery, because he had more than $500 in his pocket. They said that he had apparently finished work for the night and that his dry cleaning was hanging from a hook in the back seat.
The police said Mr. Perez was shot as he sat behind the wheel, apparently by someone who was seated beside him. A single spent bullet was recovered from the car.
About 12 hours after the shooting, Mr. Perez's widow, Ana Maria Estrella, and Fernando Mateo, the president of the New York State Federation of Taxi Drivers, gathered at Whitlock Avenue and Aldus Street, the site of the killing, for a news conference.
Mr. Mateo said he had met with the mayor on Tuesday to discuss driver safety and had called for safety devices like partitions, cameras and tracking devices as well as for increased police patrols aimed at thwarting taxi robberies.
The news conference ended abruptly when Ms. Estrella began sobbing and then fainted as she spoke to the crowd of reporters, photographers and television crews. She was taken away in an ambulance.
Before she broke down, Ms. Estrella talked briefly about her husband. "He was a good man, he was a happy man," she said in Spanish, with Mr. Mateo translating. "I lost it all. I have nowhere to turn." The couple's 16-month-old son slept through the event.
Mr. Perez, who came to the United States from the Dominican Republic, had been driving a livery cab in New York for about seven years, as one of the roughly 41,000 drivers in the city who cruise for fares in neighborhoods where medallion taxis are seldom found. Yellow cabs are the only ones allowed to pick up fares on the street; livery drivers are required to be dispatched to pick up passengers. But many livery drivers pick up fares who hail them on the street to make extra money.
 The police said yesterday that statistics showed that 82 percent of livery drivers robbed since the beginning of this year were held up by fares who hailed them in the street. The police urged the drivers not to pick up street fares. Lt. Dennis Cirillo, a police spokesman, said that the department had formed a task force of 40 detectives to investigate and try to prevent taxi robberies and homicides.
Taxi and Limousine Commission rules require livery and medallion cabs that are operated by more than one driver to have partitions, but many livery drivers who use their cars for both work and personal use do not want the partitions. Cars owned and operated by drivers make up 90 percent of all livery cabs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Mateo, president of the New York State Federation of Taxi Drivers, escorted Ana Maria Estrella and her 16-month-old son yesterday to the site in the Bronx where her husband, Luis Francisco Perez, was fatally shot in his livery cab hours earlier. At left, a recent photograph of Mr. Perez with their son. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; CAMERAS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ROBBERY (62%); SHOOTINGS (58%); 

PERSON: RASHBAUM, WILLIAM K; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PEREZ, LUIS FRANCISCO RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000



386 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: An Idea Whose Time Will Not Go

BYLINE: By Alan Brinkley; Alan Brinkley is the Allan Nevins professor of history at Columbia and the author, most recently, of "Liberalism and Its Discontents."

 BODY:

WAY OUT THERE
 IN THE BLUE
 Reagan, Star Wars and the End
 of the Cold War.
 By Frances FitzGerald.
 592 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $30. 
 Between 1983, when Ronald Reagan first proposed what he called the "Strategic Defense Initiative," and 1999, when Congress most recently financed it, the United States spent over $60 billion on research and preliminary testing of a system to defend the nation against strategic missiles. It has already become the single most expensive research project in the history of the federal government. And so far there is almost nothing to show for it. Despite some important technical advances, there is still no workable system of missile defenses and no realistic prospect of an effective system any time soon.
Most Americans probably think of S.D.I., popularly known as "Star Wars," as a relic of the Reagan years, long since abandoned. That it survives still, after over 16 years of futility, is only one of many things that may surprise some readers of Frances FitzGerald's "Way Out There in the Blue," an exhaustive account of the fate of S.D.I. in the 1980's and beyond. FitzGerald is an eminent writer and nonacademic historian, and the author of, among other things, a Pulitzer Prize-winning study of the Vietnam War, "Fire in the Lake." This book is a significant departure from her previous work. It is an excursion into the intricacies of complex public policies and, in particular, into the arcane political and technological details of nuclear diplomacy. A less talented writer would have a hard time telling this difficult story in a way that ordinary readers would find accessible or interesting. What is perhaps most striking about "Way Out There in the Blue" is how clearly, eloquently and engagingly FitzGerald manages to describe a set of obscure and complicated events.
Little in this book will be new to those who have closely followed the vicissitudes of S.D.I. over the past 17 years. Almost everything in it is drawn from previously published sources. What makes this story so absorbing is FitzGerald's skill at tying S.D.I. to the larger history of its time. In particular, she provides one of the best inner histories of the Reagan administration yet to appear.
S.D.I. was born out of the convergence of political crisis and scientific hubris. In the first two years of the Reagan administration, the United States redefined its relationship with the Soviet Union and, in the process, produced not only a heightened level of hostility between the two superpowers but a complete stalemate in the slow progress of arms control negotiations that had then been in progress for over a decade. Most of the leading military and foreign policy figures in the administration's early years did not believe in negotiating with the Kremlin. They preferred a confrontational escalation of the arms race, which they believed the United States would win.
Two unforeseen political developments threatened this agenda. One was the serious recession that began in 1982 and that greatly increased the already large deficits that the administration's supply-side economics had helped produce. The other was the emergence of the nuclear freeze movement in Europe and America and its rapid transformation into a major political force. Fearful that budgetary constraints and popular fears would derail the administration's military and foreign policy, a number of Reagan aides began to take an interest in what until then had been a relatively obscure proposal from a small group of important, if somewhat erratic, scientists. It was a plan for developing a laser-guided, space-based defense against ballistic missiles, and its principal scientific sponsor was Edward Teller, a distinguished physicist who was also known as a hyperbolic enthusiast for visionary schemes that existed largely in his own imagination.
Teller and those who shared his vision talked ecstatically about the new technologies that they claimed were already available to create such a system, and they persuaded many within the administration to go along with the wishful and entirely erroneous idea that effective deployment was within easy reach. For policy makers trying to quell popular opposition to the arms race, the idea of a shield against incoming missiles seemed a godsend, and they promoted it fervently and boldly -- most notably by advancing a novel "broad" interpretation of the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty and arguing that S.D.I. was compatible with that agreement.
To President Reagan, FitzGerald says, S.D.I. was appealing for other reasons. It was, in essence, a route to achieving an old American dream: isolation from the dangers of the outside world. In the past, the dream of isolation had led to efforts to keep the United States unconnected to other nations, an idea clearly obsolete in the 1980's. Now a miraculous new technology promised to do what diplomacy could not. Reagan always presented S.D.I. as an impenetrable barrier that would protect the American people (even though, very early in the research process, almost every scientist understood that at best it would be able to protect only American land-based missiles, not the population). Much of the public believed Reagan's rhetoric, and the growing popularity of S.D.I. helped undercut the power of the nuclear freeze movement in America (although not in Europe), making it easier for the administration both to finance its military program and to continue the stalemate in arms control negotiations.
Three figures stand at the center of FitzGerald's oddly gripping story. One is George Shultz, who succeeded the prickly Alexander Haig as secretary of state in 1982 and set out to place American relations with the Soviet Union on a more conciliatory course. Shultz was always skeptical about S.D.I., and always more willing than others to treat it as a bargaining chip in negotiations with Moscow. But he did not try to scuttle the program. Instead, he waged a battle against those in the administration who opposed arms control and did not believe in any real negotiations with the Soviets.
His chief antagonist was Caspar Weinberger, the combative secretary of defense, who decided very early in his tenure in office that his mission was to defend the administration's military buildup relentlessly and uncritically. Weinberger was a devoted servant of bureaucratic self-interest, not an ideologue; and within the Pentagon bureaucracy, the principal self-interest was defending the Reagan increases in the military budget. Weinberger sided with those who opposed arms control negotiations less because he had strong beliefs about Communism or the Soviet regime than because such opposition was consistent with his own goal of military expansion. FitzGerald says he supported S.D.I. for the same reason.
Weinberger and Shultz were at war with each other from the beginning of Shultz's tenure in 1982 to the end of Weinberger's in 1987, and the political and bureaucratic intrigue with which each tried to undercut and outmaneuver the other is a recurrent and fascinating theme of FitzGerald's book. But what made their battle so intense was the character of the man whose support they were both trying to attract: Ronald Reagan.
Much has been written about Reagan's detached leadership style, his legendary ignorance of the details of his own policies and his unwillingness to support anything firmly, other than a few very broad principles. FitzGerald does not substantially revise this already well-established portrait, which is visible in the work of Lou Cannon, Edmund Morris and almost all the many memoirists from Reagan's own administration. But she does make unusually vivid the degree to which Reagan dwelled in a world apart from those around him; the way he clung determinedly to myths and fantasies regardless of evidence refuting them; the way he reinterpreted his conduct to fit his own vision of himself (most famously in his stubborn insistence, and his apparently real belief, that he had never agreed to trade arms for hostages in Iran, even though he clearly had).
FitzGerald makes clear, however, that one thing always trumped even Reagan's most fervently held beliefs, and that was his own political fortunes. Despite his image as a man of rock-solid conviction who ignored politics in pursuit of his goals, he was at least as much of a political man as any other occupant of the White House. He embraced S.D.I. because it fit comfortably with his romantic beliefs, to be sure. But, according to FitzGerald, he embraced it most of all because he was in political trouble in 1983 and saw it as a way out. He sided with, or at least refused to repudiate, those in his administration who opposed negotiations with the Soviets as long as that opposition was not politically costly. But once Mikhail Gorbachev skillfully mobilized world opinion behind his reforms in the Soviet Union and, even more, once the Iran-contra scandal blighted Reagan's reputation at home, the president embraced summit diplomacy, and even arms control, as an effective vehicle for restoring his own popularity. Reagan never took sides consistently in the battle between Shultz and Weinberger until he realized that siding with Shultz was the course more likely to benefit him politically.
By the end of the Reagan administration, almost nothing survived of its early militant posture toward the Soviet Union. The great military buildup of 1981-1983 had been terminated. Arms control negotiations were advancing rapidly. Reagan himself had all but declared the cold war over. All that remained, in the end, was S.D.I. -- not as a politically valuable program (the public had long since lost interest in it, and many Americans assumed the project was virtually dead), but as one now with a large constituency within the bureaucracy, in a few corners of the scientific community and in some defense industries, all of whom fought to keep lavish spending for the program alive. Eventually, after 1994, they were joined by the new Republican leadership in Congress, committed to an agenda in many ways well to the right of Reagan's. They were attracted to S.D.I., FitzGerald argues, because they, like Reagan at his most ethereal, continued to imagine a world in which the United States could stand alone, impervious to the interests or needs of other nations. In 1999, with broad bipartisan support and almost no public debate or popular notice, Congress authorized an additional $6.6 billion to deploy an antimissile defense system. Ronald Reagan's strange and alluring dream now seems almost certain to outlive him.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WAY OUT THERE IN THE BLUE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COLD WAR (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMS RACE (78%); HISTORY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); LITERATURE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, ALAN; FITZGERALD, FRANCES; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



387 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Third-Party Candidate

BYLINE: By Nelson Lichtenstein; Nelson Lichtenstein teaches history at the University of Virginia.

 BODY:

American Dreamer
 The Life and Times of Henry A. Wallace.
 By John C. Culver and John Hyde.
 Illustrated. 608 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $35. 
 Henry A. Wallace has long been an unwelcome guest at the table of New Deal remembrance. He was a crusading secretary of agriculture during the Depression and an outspoken, progressive vice president in World War II. But after he ran for president on a Communist-backed Progressive Party ticket in 1948, his political legacy found no champions.
Liberals thought him little more than a woolly-minded foil for Harry S. Truman's brand of tough anti-Communist internationalism. Conservatives pointed to Wallace as the embodiment of New Deal social planning and collectivism. And leftists remembered that in the 1930's Wallace sided with the plantation owners who used New Deal farm policy to throw sharecroppers off the land.
But Wallace has at long last found a defense team worthy of his remarkable scientific and political career. In this expansive and engaging biography, John Hyde, a journalist long associated with The Des Moines Register, and John C. Culver, a former Democratic senator from Iowa, give us a life with plenty of blunders and eccentricities. However, the portrait that emerges in "American Dreamer" is one of an increasingly combative liberal whose 15 years in the public spotlight put him not at the margins but close to the animating center of American politics during the heyday of the New Deal.
To follow the long road Wallace took from farm-state worthy to postwar villain, one has to start with Iowa's great crop, corn. Farmers raised too much of it, and the corn they grew often fell victim to hail, drought, pest and rock-bottom prices. Farm income followed an unpredictable boom-and-bust cycle.
Wallaces' Farmer, the influential journal published by three generations of the family, argued that the solution lay not with populist hell-raising or Wall Street-bashing but with the application of science, planning and good management to the agricultural enterprise. The Wallaces were Republicans in the 1920's, working closely with the powerful, socially conservative American Farm Bureau Federation. Young Henry was a skilled econometrician and one of the inventors of hybrid corn, whose commercialization would eventually make his family wealthy.
But Wallace was hardly an advocate of laissez-faire. He believed that agricultural capitalism was but an extreme variant of all free-market systems -- inherently unstable, and thus inefficient and socially dangerous. In the depths of the Depression, such ideas mirrored the nation's desolate reality; thus, as President Roosevelt's agriculture secretary, Wallace won near-universal consent for a farm program designed to limit production, subsidize growers and raise prices. To the horror of urban consumers, six million baby pigs got their throats slit, but hog prices did rise. In later years the regulatory effort would proceed with more subtlety. Indeed, for more than half a century the market-shaping apparatus established by Henry Wallace made government planning in the farm belt as American as corn on the cob.
Wallace's commitment to a well-ordered political economy was strangely offset by an inner turmoil. His biographers see Wallace as a "dreamer," a restless, "ardent seeker of cosmic truth." They track a frenzied spiritual voyage. During the 1920's and 30's, Wallace explored Roman Catholicism, theosophy, astrology and Native American religions. During his early years as secretary of agriculture he corresponded with the expatriate Russian mystic Nicholas Roerich. Wallace took more than his share of invective when his political enemies later made these "guru letters" public, and by 1948 his covert spirituality seemed but one more indication of his political unreliability.
In 1940, Roosevelt told Democrats he wanted Wallace on his ticket for his try at an unprecedented third term, and Culver and Hyde detail the intense intraparty opposition generated by the choice. But they neglect the larger political dynamic that made Wallace both highly useful to Roosevelt's re-election and exceedingly controversial as an outspoken World War II liberal. As a set of policy initiatives, the New Deal was in retreat by 1940. But as an electoral coalition, the Democratic Party that had been formed by the New Deal was hardly finished: it was based on the support of organized labor, urban liberals and African-Americans, just the kind of voters who applauded Wallacite reformism.
The new vice president therefore infused the war effort with the kind of visionary New Dealism that had grown stale in Washington's corridors of power. But Wallace's politics, and his own power, were put to the test in 1943 when he tangled with Jesse Jones, Roosevelt's staunchly conservative commerce secretary, who was in charge of financing the purchase of war materials abroad. As the head of a new Board of Economic Warfare, Wallace wanted to put a New Deal stamp on this process. He would ensure labor rights and decent wages for foreign workers who produced the rubber, tin and copper purchased for the Allied military cause. Jones and his conservative allies denounced the effort; the racists among them called it a "quart of milk for every Hottentot." When Roosevelt failed to back his vice president in this battle, Wallace's ouster from the 1944 Democratic ticket was virtually assured.
Wallace felt "liberated" by this defeat. Now he would begin a long embattled march toward political independence -- and marginality. Culver and Hyde offer a sympathetic but hardly fawning account of this, the most controversial phase of Wallace's career. He was often blind to the horrors of the Stalin regime, readily accepting Soviet domination of Eastern Europe. Soon, Wallace was anathema among anti-Communist liberals like Hubert Humphrey and Eleanor Roosevelt, and his views helped facilitate the increasingly large Communist role in the Progressive Party campaign of 1948.
However, this hardly constitutes the most significant part of the Wallace legacy. He insisted that the militarization of the cold war was neither wise nor necessary, and he recognized that the ideological constraints imposed in that crusade endangered American liberties. But of even more usefulness today may be the lessons Wallace derived from his effort to discipline the market, and not only in corn or cotton. Someday, the economy may take a big lunge downward, and if it does, even the most savvy Web capitalists will find new merit in some of the regulatory tools deployed by Henry Wallace when he joined Franklin Roosevelt's cabinet 67 years ago. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICAN DREAMER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); MAMMALS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); HOG & PIG FARMING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); WRITERS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (66%); 

PERSON: LICHTENSTEIN, NELSON; CULVER, JOHN C; HYDE, JOHN HENRY A WALLACE (98%); JOHN HYDE (63%); JOHN C CULVER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



388 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 3; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: ASIA-PACIFIC ISSUE;
Bargains Are Fading In Asia

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH; HOWARD W. FRENCH is chief of the Tokyo bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
THE bad news these days about travel to eastern Asia is that the region has reverted from being the certifiable steal that it was at the height of the economic crisis two years ago to once again being comparably priced with many other parts of the world -- or even pricier.
The good news, if that's the right term when bargains are evaporating, is that the region's many currencies seem finally to have stabilized, and budgeting for travel once again seems possible throughout much of the area, even when making reservations a few months in advance. 
 Most Asian currencies have strengthened handsomely from their lows of two years ago, accounting for the largest rise in costs for travel by Americans and others with United States dollars. A dramatic case in point is Japan, where the yen has appreciated by 22 percent since early April 1998, to about 105 yen to the dollar from about 135 yen.
Prices in yen have scarcely changed in two years' time; indeed many have decreased marginally in the recession that hangs over the country. But that will be little comfort to holders of dollars, who will have to buy yen at a much higher rate.
Visitors to Tokyo today will pay about 44,000 yen, about $420, to stay in a double-occupancy room at the Okura Hotel, one of the city's top business hotels, and 38,000, $360, for one in the Westin Tokyo, another favorite among visiting business people. Those rates in yen have barely budged in the last two years. Unfortunately, the difference in dollars -- an increase of close to $100 in each case -- will be keenly felt.
It has been a long time since Japan has been considered a bargain by travelers from anywhere. For many visitors -- and residents -- it often seems to be the most expensive place on the planet, what with tiny $5 cups of coffee and taxis whose meters start at $6.50.
One of the best bargains, though, remains the Japan Rail Pass, available from the Japan National Tourist Organization offices in the United States. A one-week pass, which covers wide-ranging tours of the country aboard Japan's famous bullet trains, is 28,300 yen, or about $270 at current exchange rates.
In China, the currency is held steady by a Government-fixed exchange rate. Room rates in Beijing have remained fairly stable as well. Double rooms are available at the China World Hotel in Beijing for $210, plus 15 percent service and tax charge. Another central city establishment, the New World Hotel, offers doubles for $120, including breakfast, service charge and tax.
In Thailand, a favorite tourist destination for visitors from both the West and elsewhere in Asia, prices have been on a slow, steady rebound since the Asian currency crisis. Compared with precrisis days, many of the country's top hotels are still a bargain, but if the current trend continues, that won't be true for very long.
At the high-end Shangri-La in Bangkok, a double now goes for $210, including breakfast, laundry and dry cleaning, rising to $290 for a deluxe room. Scarcely three years ago, those rooms were $220 and $310, respectively. In the interim, though, a standard double had fallen to as little as $180.
And at the legendary Oriental Hotel, the rate is $250 a room, single or double occupancy, plus 10 percent service charge and 7.7 percent tax, up from $220 two years ago. The Westin Banyan Tree's doubles are $190, up from about $150 two years ago. And the Delta Grand Pacific, a popular destination for more-budget-oriented travelers offers doubles for $85, plus service and tax charges, up from $75 two years ago.
For beach vacationers, a week for two at the Club Med Phuket is $3,200, including three meals a day, drinks and sports activities. That high-season rate falls to $1,400 for the same package during the off season. These are the same as two years ago.
In Singapore, the venerable Raffles Hotel says its rates haven't changed in two years, with a double costing $700, plus 10 percent service, 1 percent government tax and 1 percent goods and services tax. A double at the Westin Plaza is also unchanged from 1998: $360, plus tax.
No country was harder hit by the region's currency collapse than Indonesia. At the height of the country's woes, deluxe taxis could be chartered for less than $10 a day, and rooms at the Shangri-La in Jakarta, with its marble-clad health club, could be had for under $100.
Indonesia remains the region's best bargain. It has gone through rocky political times with the secession of East Timor and the recent presidential elections. Indonesia's currency has been rising slowly, but visitors will find that prices are far below precrisis levels and still eminently reasonable.
The Shangri-La, for example, offers double rooms for $155, plus 21 percent for tax and service, and doubles can be had at the Crowne Plaza Jakarta, another top hotel, for a mere $88, with breakfast included. At the Westin Surabaya, doubles are $63, and deluxe rooms are $79, including breakfast.
The dream air fare to Asia -- $999 round trip for two people from the United States to Hong Kong on Cathay Pacific, with five nights' lodging included -- offered briefly in 1997, may have been the ultimate deal. But air fare to Asia is still a relative bargain. Cathay has expanded its $999 round-trip all-Asia pass, which allows a traveler to visit 16 cities in 30 days; departures from the United States are from New York, San Francisco or Los Angeles, with the first and last stop in Hong Kong.
An Internet search this month for the lowest air fare from Los Angeles to Bangkok found $555 on China Airlines and $559 on Korean Airlines. Continental, Northwest, American and United Airlines all offered a $638 ticket, just over half of what it was in spring 1997. The best price for a mid-May departure was $680 on Northwest and Thai.
Not all cities are quite that cheap, though: the lowest Los Angeles-Tokyo fare for mid-May departure was $811 on Korean Air and Northwest. The best New York-Tokyo fare for mid-May was $1,161 on four airlines, which was $200 less than a month earlier. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (97%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); BEIJING, CHINA (86%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (50%); NEW WORLD WINES (50%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; CHINA; ASIA (97%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); BEIJING, CHINA (86%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); HOTEL AMENITIES (70%); TOURISM (63%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (61%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



389 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 11; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2513 words

HEADLINE: ASIA-PACIFIC ISSUE;
Hong Kong Is Humming Again

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; MARK LANDLER is chief of the Hong Kong bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
NEARLY three years later, residents of this former British colony still get starry-eyed when they recall the rituals that marked Hong Kong's return to Chinese sovereignty on July 1, 1997: The stately transfer of power, the blazing fireworks, the lavish receptions and balls.
For Hong Kong, the handover, not the millennium, was its fin-de-siecle party. And the hangover that followed was worse than any Y2K bug. 
 But now, after two years of recession and hand-wringing about its future, Hong Kong has come out of its funk. The stock market is humming, business is booming and construction cranes once again swoop above the city's serrated skyline. Most tellingly, Hong Kong thumps with the percussion of pile-drivers pounding in foundations for the next generation of high-rise towers.
Hong Kong is also coming back to life as a destination for tourists. Visitor arrivals, which plunged from 11.7 million in 1996 to a low of 9.5 million in 1998, rebounded last year, to 10.7 million. The Hong Kong Tourist Association predicts arrivals will grow to 11.4 million this year. "We have successfully put Hong Kong on the world map as a city of diverse attractions that offers great value for money," said Amy Chan, the association's executive director.
Ms. Chan's claim about value for money is debatable. Hong Kong remains one of the most expensive cities in Asia -- a room at the midrange Excelsior Hotel in Causeway Bay costs $175 -- though the rebound in the currencies of other Southeast Asian countries is closing the gap somewhat. And while this city of seven million does offer breathtaking sights -- natural and man-made -- its most talked-about new tourist attraction is still on the drawing board.
Last fall, the Walt Disney Company announced it would build a theme park in Hong Kong, its third outside the United States and second in Asia, after Tokyo Disneyland. The 311-acre park, to be built on Lantau Island west of Hong Kong, is not scheduled to open until 2005. But it has already become part of Hong Kong's marketing pitch: a cosmopolitan city, with Western flavor as well as Chinese characteristics.
If that sounds a bit all-encompassing, it may reflect Hong Kong's deeper struggle to fashion an identity after its reversion to China. The tourist association promotes Hong Kong as the "City of Life," and lively it is. But the slogan seems a place-holder for a city still not sure of its new role.
In some matters, Hong Kong is clearly starting to put East above West. On New Year's Eve, for example, the local authorities, shunning the Western calendar, did not stage fireworks in Victoria Harbour, despite the pleas of harborfront hotels. Instead, the city sponsored a postmidnight horse race, which it proclaimed the first of the new millennium, at the Happy Valley Racecourse.
The following month, Hong Kong illuminated the harbor with fireworks for the Chinese New Year. The only other holiday that rates harbor pyrotechnics is Oct. 1, anniversary of the Communist takeover of China in 1949.
Yet Hong Kong does not wish to disappear into China either. English is still widely spoken here, although -- frustratingly -- not by cabdrivers. And the English street signs have not been taken down. From Connaught Road to Pedder Street, parts of Hong Kong still recall Mayfair more than mainland China.
The prospect of a Disneyland has aroused little debate, unlike in Paris, where it was derided as a cultural Chernobyl before opening in 1992. Aside from a token nod to Chinese food and festivals, Disney says its park will celebrate Mickey Mouse and evoke the Main Street ambience of its American parks. But that doesn't bother the residents, who are used to imported culture coexisting with their own.
Neither a crown colony nor merely a Chinese metropolis, Hong Kong is trying to be a bit of both. Indeed, it is attracting visitors for the same reasons it always did: its dual identity as a Western-style commercial center and a resolutely Chinese place. Wired with fiber optics but redolent of burning incense, Hong Kong remains the quintessential meeting point of East and West.
Most visitors arrive at the nearly two-year-old Hong Kong International Airport, itself an attraction. A soaring pterodactyl-like structure, built on reclaimed land west of the city, it is one of the last great engineering projects of the 20th century. After a glitch-ridden opening in July 1998, it now operates almost flawlessly. With flights to about 40 cities in mainland China, it is the largest gateway to China. And with more than 60 airlines serving 120 other cities, it is challenging Singapore's claim as the regional aviation hub.
Much of the airport's success is due to an express train that runs from the terminal to stations in Kowloon and Central Hong Kong. Passengers can check luggage and pick up a boarding pass in town; this arrangement has reduced airport lines and relieved much of the stress of traveling here.
Hotel rooms remain plentiful, from exotic Asian palaces to spartan guest houses. Among the most gilded are the Peninsula, which serves a glorious afternoon tea in its lobby near the waterfront in Kowloon, and the Mandarin Oriental, which holds court in a slightly faded building in Hong Kong's Central district.
Among the options for budget-minded travelers are two convenient guest houses in the hills above the Central district: Garden View International House, at 1 Macdonnell Road, and Bishop Lei International Guest House, at 4 Robinson Road.
After a lull in construction, Hong Kong may soon get its first new luxury hotel in several years. A shopping center, hotel and 88-story tower are rising in front of the Airport Express station in central Hong Kong. Two luxury chains, Four Seasons and Ritz-Carlton, are among those bidding to put the city's first six-star hotel in the building. It is scheduled to be finished in 2004.
One of Hong Kong's landmark hotels, the Hilton, was torn down a few years ago to make room for the Cheung Kong Center, the monumental 62-story headquarters of a local tycoon, Li Ka-shing. Mr. Li has hung thousands of tiny bright bulbs on his building, and after dark, it becomes a giant light show -- kaleidoscopic patterns and colors change according to the occasion. Last month, the lights spelled the name "tom.com" in blocklike, flickering letters. It was a not-so-subtle plug for Mr. Li's new Internet portal, which went public on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and immediately soared to astronomical levels. Like tulip bulbs in 17th-century Holland, the Internet has fueled a speculative mania here. Chancy as that is, it has done much to restore Hong Kong's spirits.
While the Cheung Kong Center may be the most dramatic, it is only one of several brightly lighted buildings that are remaking Hong Kong's skyline. In contrast to New York, where landmark buildings are bathed in light from spotlights mounted on neighboring buildings, developers here tend to wrap their towers in ribbons of neon. The lights blink on and off and change color in often-manic sequences.
The effect of these garish, flashing monoliths is striking, especially when seen from the promenade on the Kowloon waterfront, across the harbor. It is a short ride from Central Hong Kong on the Star Ferry, which runs about every 10 minutes between 6:30 a.m. and 11:30 p.m.
ONCE in Kowloon, visitors can plunge into the teeming, clamorous streets that mark Hong Kong as an indisputably Chinese city. The neighborhoods of Mongkok and Yau Ma Tei are especially packed. Yau Ma Tei is home to the Temple Street Night Market, which, in addition to selling every imaginable type of counterfeit goods, also has open-air stalls selling delicious food. Known as dai pai dong, these stalls specialize in seafood.
For those who want to explore beyond Hong Kong and Kowloon -- and gauge the results of an even-more recent handover -- the former Portuguese colony of Macao is less than an hour away by high-speed hovercraft. Macao was reclaimed by China's leaders on Dec. 20, 1999, after more than four centuries of Portuguese rule. Visitors do not need a visa, but should have passports.
Beyond the immaculate ferry terminal, Macao, like Hong Kong, shows little outward change. Colonial buildings, their pastel colors meticulously restored, huddle between dilapidated high-rise apartments. Though the Chinese army has established a garrison there, the tiny enclave retains the feeling of a louche, vaguely sinister gambling den.
One of Macao's colonial treasures, the Bela Vista Hotel, has been converted into the Portuguese consulate, depriving visitors of a sublime view from the veranda. But other landmarks, like the Governor's Mansion and the San Francisco barracks, have changed only their occupants. To savor a sense of colonial-era Macao, have lunch at the Clube Militar de Macau on Avenido da Praia Grande near the Hotel Lisboa. With its langorous ceiling fans and elegant tables, it was the preferred lunch spot for Macao's Portuguese administrators. The rich Portuguese duck rice and African chicken remain.
The casino of the sprawling, seedy Lisboa Hotel has long been the flagship of Macao's gambling trade. Weekend wagerers from Hong Kong, Taiwan and mainland China crowd around blackjack tables, as clouds of cigarette smoke curl above them. In the hallways outside the casino, prostitutes trawl for customers.
In the depths of the recession, Hong Kong briefly flirted with the idea of opening casinos in the territory. But wiser heads prevailed, and speculation is restricted to the stock market, the track and games of mah-jongg played in houses or clubs. Still, consumerism is so pervasive in Hong Kong that it has constrained the development of other forms of culture, either literary or artistic.
For a city of its size and sophistication, Hong Kong has a remarkable dearth of cultural attractions. Its museums are small and none has an international reputation. One of the few interesting exhibits under way is a display of Chinese seals dating from the Warring States period (475-221 B.C.) to the Qing dynasty (1644-1911). About 500 seals, ranging from signature seals to literary seals, are being shown in the West Wing of the Art Museum at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. The exhibit, jointly organized by the Chinese University and Zhejiang Provincial Museum in Hangzhou, runs until May 7.
Performing arts are stronger. Hong Kong's large film industry is showing signs of revival after a long slump. And arts organizations import symphony orchestras, musicals and plays. The popular revival of "Chicago" begins a limited engagement at the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts on April 22. From late April to late June, the French Consulate and the Hong Kong government are sponsoring a French arts festival, featuring classical and rock music, jazz, ballet, cinema, painting, even equestrian events.
Hong Kong still caters wonderfully to the more earthly senses, with a staggering array of restaurants and nightclubs. Half-empty during the recession, its hottest spots are now packed. A decade ago, the focus of night life began shifting from Wanchai, the bar district immortalized in the 1960 film "The World of Suzie Wong," to Lan Kwai Fong, a hilly neighborhood near the business district. Now, it is shifting again -- to a warren of streets that lie to the west of Lan Kwai Fong. Known derivatively as SoHo (for "South of Hollywood Road"), the area boasts a variety of upscale ethnic restaurants and trendy bars. Many are squeezed next to shops selling Chinese herbs and porcelain. The cramped atmosphere is magnified by an elevated pedestrian escalator that snakes above the neighborhood, carrying office workers to their flats in the hills.
On a sultry Friday night in SoHo, when Hong Kong's newly wealthy Internet entrepreneurs mingle with the usual crowd of lawyers and stockbrokers -- their laughter echoing through the narrow streets -- it is hard to remember that Hong Kong was ever depressed.
 
Palaces, guest houses, dim sum and dance
 
Getting Around
Trains run between the airport and Hong Kong every 10 minutes between 5:50 a.m. and 12:48 p.m. They stop at Tsing Yi, Kowloon and Central Hong Kong. One-way fare: $9. Star Ferry runs every 5 to 10 minutes between Tsim Sha Tsui in Kowloon, and Central and Wanchai in Hong Kong; the fare is 28 cents.
 
Where to Stay
One can opt for opulence or for something on the modest side.
The Peninsula Hong Kong, Salisbury Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon; (852) 2366-6251, (852) 2722-4170. Evocative, colonial-era lobby and glorious harbor views from rooms on high floors. Doubles start at $435 plus 10 percent service and 3 percent tax ($361, plus 13 percent tax in April and June), at 7.6 Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollar. Spa and pool.
Mandarin Oriental, 5 Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong; (852) 2522-0111, fax (852) 2810-6190. The hotel is noted for its bars and restaurants. Doubles start at $249 plus 10 percent service and 3 percent tax, including American breakfast.
The Excelsior, 281 Gloucester Road, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong, (852) 2894-8888, fax (852) 2895-6459, faces Victoria Harbour, with the shops of Causeway Bay in its backyard. Popular Asian fusion restaurant on the top floor. Standard doubles: $175 plus 13 percent tax.
Garden View International House, 1 Macdonnell Road, Central, Hong Kong; (852) 2877-3737, fax (852) 2845-6263. Standard double with bath: $70, including tax. It is affiliated with the Y.W.C.A., whose gym and pool are open to guests.
Bishop Lei International Guest House, 4 Robinson Road, Mid-Levels, Hong Kong; (852) 2868-0828, fax (852) 2868-1551. Standard doubles with bath: $168 plus 10 percent tax. Discounts may be available. There is a free bus to Central Hong Kong and nearby Admiralty subway station.
 
Restaurants
Victoria City Seafood, Sun Hung Kai Center, Wanchai, (852) 2827-9938. Dinner for two with wine, $165.
Lao Ching Hing, 238 Jaffe Road, Century Hong Kong Hotel, (852) 2598-6080. Shanghai-style cooking. Dinner for two with wine, $100.
City Hall Restaurant, Second Floor, Lower Block City Hall, (852) 2521-1303. The dim sum lunch for two is about $25.
 
Cultural Events
Le French May, April 20 to June 25, 2000. Bookings start in April. The Web site is www.frenchmay.com.
"The Art of Chinese Seals Through the Ages," March 10 to May 7, West Wing Galleries, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, (852) 2609-7416. Open Monday to Saturday, 10 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. Sunday 12:30 P.M. to 5:30 P.M. Closed on April 21 to 24 and May 1. Free.
"Chicago," April 22 to May 14, Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts, Lyric Theater, (852) 2815-1516. Evening performances: $39 to $86; matinees, $33 to $72.
 
Macao
Hotel Lisboa, Avenida de Lisboa; (853) 577-666, fax (853) 567-193. Doubles $135, but vary depending on how busy the hotel is, plus 15 percent tax. Casino open 24 hours.
Clube Militar de Macau, 975 Avenida da Praia Grande; (853) 714-009. The restaurant is open from noon to 3 p.m. and from 7 to 11 p.m.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Penny's Bay area on Lantau Island where Disney plans a new park. (David McIntyre/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 22); Hong Kong International Airport. Pool of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel. The Lisboa Hotel and Casino in Macao. The Pedder Street neighborhood at lunchtime. (David McIntyre/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Map of Hong Kong showing tourist attractions and points of interest. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); MACAO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (74%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (81%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (55%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (55%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); MACAO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AMUSEMENT PARKS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TOURISM (88%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); TRENDS (68%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (56%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



390 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 11; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: ASIA-PACIFIC ISSUE;
Vestiges of a Grand Life

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; DAVID E. SANGER is the White House correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
IT must have been great to be a British governor general.
Just imagine it. When the job was still worth having, it came with complete authority to rule over your colony. Better yet, all your bosses were half a world away, in an era when that meant they really had no idea how well you were living. Which was probably just as well: Most governors general lived quite nicely. When not putting down the odd local insurrection, they could retreat to spectacular hilltop homes, their every care (and afternoon tea) anticipated by an overly large staff. 
 That way of life died out quickly with the end of colonialism. No doubt that is largely a good thing -- the quality of rule rarely matched the governor's quality of life. But fortunately some of the houses survive, complete with their carefully rolled lawns, their sumptuous breakfasts and -- in the case of Carcosa, the spectacular 102-year-old mansion in the hills above Kuala Lumpur -- a small army of butlers and drivers. The mansion, with seven guest suites, is now part of a small luxury hotel called Carcosa Seri Negara; a second mansion, with six more suites, is under renovation after a fire in February.
Carcosa Seri Negara is one of the few places in Asia to recall an era long gone. It is all about atmosphere, from the gentle breezes in the morning, to the iguanas that scamper across the paths when you are out on a morning walk, to the wide veranda, where you half expect to see Evelyn Waugh sunk into a weathered wicker chair, scratching out his next novel and barking at the waiters. It was no accident that Queen Elizabeth II settled in at Carcosa Seri Negara when she visited this former British colony in the fall of 1998. After all, there's not much sense of Asian adventure when you check in at the Ritz-Carlton downtown, one of the many hotels that feel more like Manhattan than what was once British Malaya.
There have been concessions to modern times at Carcosa Seri Negara. Every suite has been air-conditioned and updated; in mine, the veranda had been glassed in to create a cool seating area. When the wind parted the branches, I could just make out the Petronas Twin Towers, the world's tallest buildings, a symbol of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad's single-minded determination to transform this tropical capital into a wired financial powerhouse.
But best of all, every suite comes with a personal butler. Mine was a witty, personable veteran of Carcosa life: Vicky Manian, who made sure the right fruits and magazines were on the teak desk in my room, drove me around town on my appointments in a wonderfully battered old Mercedes, and punctuated every trip with tales of the hotel's odder guests. (He had only good things to say about the Queen.) But more about him in a moment.
I had long wanted to stay at Carcosa. In 15 years of bouncing around in Asia, I've been fascinated with the grand old homes that served as the seat of colonial power.
Maybe it's their graceful shutters, or the constant clacking of the ceiling fans, but every one of them seems haunted by the history of failed attempts at colonial rule in Asia -- the subtext of the region's politics to this day. The houses are at once fabulously luxurious and a little sad, reminders of an age that has virtually disappeared in the 25 years since the end of the Vietnam War. And the few that still stand are often in the shadows of Singapore's skyscrapers or Saigon's cell-phone towers.
They are hard to find and harder to get into. The former home of the American governor general of the Philippines today sits behind a huge fence and serves as the office of the American ambassador -- complete with its huge seaside veranda, commanding a view of Corregidor, where Gen. Douglas MacArthur famously promised to return. "It's probably a good thing for American foreign policy that these walls can't talk," one past ambassador said to me over lunch one day, after guiding me through the house's former bedrooms and recounting the off-color legends of how Washington's men in Manila kept themselves entertained during long tropical nights.
Then there is the spectacular mansion in Hong Kong. I interviewed Christopher Patten, Britain's last governor there, just weeks before the city was returned to China in 1997. As we talked, the remnants of empire were literally being packed up and shipped back to London: old oil paintings, maps of the island, books so dusty it seemed unlikely anyone had taken them off the shelves for a half century or so. The place so reeked of colonial power that Mr. Patten's Chinese-appointed successor, Tung Chee-hwa, decided not to move into the house. He operates from an office tower instead. It's more professional, but it's got half the view and none of the romance.
Carcosa was built above Kuala Lumpur in 1897 and 1898 as the home of Sir Frank Swettenham, the first resident general of the Federated Malay States. (At the time, the governor general still lived in Singapore, long before its separation from what is now called Malaysia.) Later, Mr. Swettenham wrote endless tomes about life in the Malay Peninsula, in which he makes only passing reference to the mansion he commissioned. But he had a flair for the dramatic -- the land around Carcosa plunges straight into the jungle, then opens into the formal Lake Gardens below, an effort by the British to create a touch of Cotswold-like landscaping at the Equator.
The house, on 40 acres, looks like a British summer mansion, with some vaguely Moorish accents to the windows. Naturally Mr. Swettenham reserved for himself the most spectacular of the house's huge rooms, just over the front entrance, presumably so he could keep an eye on the restless populace below.
MAYBE he should have been watching the Japanese, who used the house to make their top officers comfortable during World War II. But by the time the British regained control of Malaya, life at Carcosa wasn't quite as much fun. An insurgency to oust the British dragged on for more than a decade, and the house was soon encircled with barbed wire. (The property is still fenced in, as I discovered on a hike.) But barbed wire alone could not protect the residents. One top British official living in Seri Negara, the adjacent house on the property, went out for a weekend drive during "the emergency" of the 1950's and never returned. His bullet-riddled body was found by the road. (Undeterred, Richard Nixon stayed in Seri Negara a few years later, as vice president.)
Later the hotel became the backdrop for "The Seventh Dawn," starring William Holden. Even after the creation of modern Malaysia, the house became the residence of the British high commissioner, and was outfitted with Oriental furniture. It became a hotel in 1989.
"The place certainly has history," Vicky Manian told me, as he escorted me up the sweeping grand staircase -- all teak, of course -- to my suite. It also has luxury. The suites are large -- big wooden beds, comfortable sitting areas, marble baths with gold-plated water works. There are now saunas and a gym in a pavilion behind Carcosa and tennis courts and an outdoor pool. The biggest suite, called the Grand Suite, comes with a private dining room.
Downstairs in the main dining room, which looks more or less like a generic country club, the walls are the same, but the traditions have changed. The waiters no longer wear headdresses, a staple of the official dinners in the 20's and 30's. The Filipino band no longer plays on the veranda.
But the dining room, which serves Malaysian and Continental fare, remains a gathering place for Malaysia's political elite. Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad used to dine here with his deputy, Anwar Ibrahim, before Mr. Mahathir felt threatened by the suave Mr. Anwar's growing political popularity.
These days the prime minister still drops in for an official dinner now and again; Mr. Anwar eats nightly in prison.
The political risks for visitors are far less -- you are free to critique the curry and the breakneck drivers in Malaysia, just not the prime minister -- and no one should miss Carcosa's famous curry tiffin, a specialty on Sundays.
The economic risks are also slight, at least for now. My suite, one of the midsized, cost about $200 a night, about half the rack rate -- a reflection of the downturn in tourism after the Asian economic crisis. Dinner was another $60 for two, without wine, and the car service is extra as well, depending on time and distance.
But that's not much more than you would pay for a luxury hotel down in the shadow of the world's tallest skyscrapers. And down there, no governor general ever ruled, no iguanas scamper about, no Communist infiltrators ever tried to break through the barbed wire, and no lazy ceiling fan clacks away as you read the paper.
 
If you go
Carcosa Seri Negara, Taman Tasik Perdana, 50480 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; (60-3) 2821888, fax (60-3) 2827888. In the United States, reservations can be made through Small Luxury Hotels of the World, (800) 525-4800. Suites range from $324 to $946, based on 3.7 Malaysian ringgit to the dollar. Rates are negotiable at present, with discounts of up to 40 percent sometimes available.
There are seven suites in the Carcosa mansion. The Seri Negara mansion, which has six additional suites, is expected to reopen within six months; it had been under renovation when a fire occurred there in February.
The dining room is open to nonguests. Dinner for two costs about $60 without drinks; a bottle of wine starts around $40. A full cooked breakfast runs about $15 a person. Afternoon tea, served from 3 to 6, costs $12 a person; reservations are suggested.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Afternoon tea is served on the hotel's veranda. The entrance to the Carcosa Seri Negara, which retains its colonial spirit. (Michael Coyne/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 11); The Malayan Union was formed in 1946 at what is now the second mansion, under repair, at the hotel. (From "Carcosa: The First Century"); A hotel suite. (Hotel Carcosa Seri Negara)
(pg. 12)
 
Map of Kuala Lumpur shows the location of Carcosa Seri Negara. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (94%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CARCOSA SERI NEGARA (HOTEL) (KUALA LUMPUR)

ORGANIZATION: CARCOSA SERI NEGARA (HOTEL) (KUALA LUMPUR)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; KUALA LUMPUR (MALAYSIA); MALAYSIA (94%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS GOVERNORS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



391 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 56; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 8203 words

HEADLINE: How to Give Away $21.8 Billion

BYLINE: By Jean Strouse; Jean Strouse is the author of "Morgan: American Financier."

 BODY:
One of the ways in which the very rich are different from you and me is that they become public property. Just about everyone has an opinion about Bill Gates's business tactics, products, motives, character, house -- and about what he should be doing with his immense fortune.
Before he began giving money away, people complained that he was a miser. Now that he is giving money away, they complain that he's doing it too late, that he isn't giving enough, that he hasn't a clue about what he's getting into, that the projects he is financing are too conservative, too liberal, too big, too small, too safe, too risky, too conventional, too splashy. Or they say he's only doing it to avoid taxes, or to expand Microsoft's markets, or, especially, to improve his image in light of the government's high-profile antitrust suit. 
 "Bill Gates can't win," says Vartan Gregorian, president of the Carnegie Corporation and a longtime adviser to Gates on the subject of philanthropy. "It's like 19th-century anti-Semitism. If the Jews didn't mix into German society, people said they had a parochial, shtetl mentality. If they did mix, people said they were trying to pass. More important than why he's doing this is what he's doing. The proof will be in the pudding."
In January, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation edged past Britain's Wellcome Trust to become the largest in the world, with assets of $21.8 billion. Even the greatest philanthropists of the past did not give away as much in real dollars over their entire lifetimes as Gates has at the age of 44. According to the Chronicle of Philanthropy, Andrew Carnegie made gifts amounting to $350 million before he died in 1919 -- a sum that would be worth about $3 billion in today's dollars; and the $540 million that John D. Rockefeller dispensed before his death in 1937 would amount to more than $6 billion today -- less than a third of the Gates total so far. As a percentage of the gross national product, Gates's gifts do not yet match those of his predecessors, but he is just getting started.
That Gates began adding to the foundation in huge ($5 billion) increments over the past 14 months, as the government prosecution took its damaging course, led to a widespread conviction that his philanthropy was just part of a public relations campaign. Then, on April 3, Federal District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled that Microsoft violated the law with "predacious" anticompetitive behavior, and the stock market knocked $80 billion off the company's value. Gates himself reportedly lost $12 billion to $14billion that day, but the foundation's endowment remains intact: its donations come in the form of Microsoft stock and are immediately converted to cash. What effect, if any, the lawsuit will have on future contributions to the foundation is unclear. Microsoft intends to appeal, and the battle could go on for years.
Gates has always said that, like Carnegie, he will give away most of his fortune before he dies. He plans to make sure his children are well taken care of but doesn't want to leave them the burden of tremendous wealth. Carnegie, however, turned his full attention to philanthropy only after he retired from the steel business at age 65. Gates probably has several decades of earning and giving ahead. He has not set a schedule for dispersing his fortune. In February, Patty Stonesifer, the president of the foundation, said that Gates thought it had reached about the right size for the time being.
Primarily occupied at the moment with his company and his family, Gates has delegated the running of the foundation to his friend Stonesifer, a former Microsoft executive, and to his father, William H. Gates Jr., although he and his wife, Melinda, are actively involved. Well aware that effective philanthropy requires as much time and creativity as building a business does, Gates considers himself "very early on the learning curve of this stuff," he says. "There are just an infinite number of things to be figured out." Still, backed by his enormous resources and extraordinary renown (it would be hard to overestimate the power of being Bill Gates), the foundation is already having a major impact -- not only on specific projects in the fields of education and global health but also on other wealthy individuals, on the American conversation about philanthropy and on public policy.
One morning in February, Patty Stonesifer and I drove from Seattle to the Microsoft campus in Redmond to talk with Gates about his philanthropy. He was, of course, looking at a computer screen in his office when we arrived. Emerging from behind his desk, he had on a pale green button-down shirt with the initials W.H.G. in light blue over the left breast, tan slacks, tan socks and brown basket-weave loafers. On the shelves and walls surrounding his workstation were pictures of Melinda and their two young children, a photograph of Einstein, several framed covers of The Economist and an aboriginal mask from Australia. We sat around a small table in the anteroom -- Gates's work and reception areas combined are about the size of a midlevel publishing executive's office in New York. Not exactly what you'd expect for a man whose company had a market value roughly equal to the gross domestic product of Spain.
There was no sign, for the next hour, that the release of Windows 2000 had set off firestorms the previous week, or that lawyers for both sides in the antitrust case were scheduled to make their final arguments the following day. Gates compartmentalizes well. At one point in the conversation he brought up his friend Warren Buffett, who does not intend to give his billions away until he has finished earning them. "Warren thinks it's very tricky to be in a meeting one minute where you're talking about giving away lots of money, and then in the next minute you're thinking about making money," Gates said. "He thinks that's a little schizophrenic, and I hear him. But I've always had partitions where I'm reading about biotech, or working on my job, or learning to play bridge. So, at least so far" -- he shrugged and laughed -- it hasn't created any schizophrenia for me."
Gates and Stonesifer have worked together ever since she started at Microsoft in 1988, and they seem entirely at ease in each other's company. She is tall and slim at 43, with brown eyes, pale skin, freckles and a close-cropped brush of red hair. For years she was the only female executive at Microsoft, and when she retired in early 1997 with Microsoft quantities of money, she didn't need another job. "Patty could sit on a beach for the rest of her life if she wanted to," says one of her friends. She takes no salary for running the Gates Foundation and serves on the boards of CBS, Amazon.com and Kinko's.
Although they are widely recognized around Seattle, Stonesifer and the Gateses do not stay behind closed doors -- they go to movies and restaurants and basketball games -- and people come up to Stonesifer in coffee bars and airports with grant proposals and free advice. In the course of working on this article, I've come in for small doses of what she deals with all the time. The heads of five New York institutions suggested that I put in a good word for their financing requests in Seattle. A producer at "60 Minutes" who doubles as an amateur coach asked me, "How would Gates like to supply uniforms for a bunch of 13-year-old basketball players?" Gordon J. Davis, the chairman of Jazz at Lincoln Center: "Find out if he's interested in jazz." A young female editorial assistant: "Ask him if he knows any nice 26-year-old guys."
I repeated these requests to Gates, who laughed, then said, "Well, you know, capitalism has these strange things, where some people have all these resources." Having so much in the way of resources can make it hard to tell what people actually want. When he first met Vartan Gregorian, Gates recalls thinking: "Ah, why is this guy spending time getting to know me?' First, he was at Brown. So I wondered, does he want a bunch of money for Brown? And then he'd come and see me and we'd talk about what were good causes, or what was going on with foundations." It turned out that Gregorian just wanted to encourage Gates to think about giving money away, not to ask for any.
In those early conversations with Gregorian, Gates was thinking about finding an underfinanced area of scientific research to support. Now the aspects of his philanthropical work that he seems most excited about have to do with redressing tremendous inequities in global health. According to the W.H.O., less than 10 percent of the world's medical research financing is directed at the health problems that afflict 90 percent of the human population. Pharmaceutical companies don't make drugs for people who can't afford them. And millions of children in poor countries die every year from diseases that could be prevented by existing vaccines. The Gates Foundation recently pledged $750 million to a fund that will help buy and distribute those medications in developing countries through a new group called Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI). "We're in this unbelievable era where you could argue, What's the most amazing thing taking place?" Gates says, leaning forward in his chair. "Is it software technology stuff and the Internet and new forms of communication? Or is it the revolution in biology?"
At the World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland, in January, Gates was disappointed to find not everyone as galvanized as he is by the combination of biotechnological innovation, widespread social disparities and hugely difficult problems that might be solved by the intervention of enormous resources and armies of intelligent people. He sat on a panel that officially inaugurated the global vaccine alliance with Gro Harlem Brundtland of the W.H.O., Carol Bellamy of Unicef, James Wolfensohn of the World Bank, Joaquim Chissano, the president of Mozambique, and Raymond Gilmartin of Merck. It was, Gates said in his office a month later, a colossal bore: "I was sitting there on that panel thinking, We're talking about saving three million lives a year here. It's about people. I hate to be critical, but that was one of the least inspirational, least informative panels I've seen."
Though he was by turns voluble, thoughtful, funny, self-deprecating and serious on a range of subjects, Gates sidestepped my questions about personal motives for his philanthropical choices. The banker J.P. Morgan supposedly once said that a man always has two reasons for the things he does: a good reason, and the real reason (although in his own case he never acknowledged the slightest difference between the two). The "reasons" historically ascribed to philanthropy have ranged from guilt to concern for one's legacy to religious principle to noblesse oblige to plain generosity. It has been widely assumed that the "robber barons" of the Gilded Age tried to buy their way through the eye of the needle with large gifts to libraries, medical research, educational and cultural institutions and the arts. However, as the historian Richard Hofstadter wrote in the 1940's: "To imagine that such men did not sleep the sleep of the just would be romantic sentimentalism. In the Gilded Age even the angels sang for them."
Maybe, but in fact these men did not believe -- regardless of what others thought -- that they had earned their fortunes in sinister ways. Rockefeller, Carnegie and Morgan saw themselves as building great industrial or financial empires and making America rich, and they did not feel that they had to atone for commercial sins or "clean up" their images for posterity by giving money away. This is a very different era, but I would imagine that Gates sees himself as having created extraordinary new technological capacities and widespread public access to information, and as having helped stimulate the phenomenal recent growth of the American economy. That he wouldn't tell a reporter about his "real" reasons isn't surprising. Maybe, like Morgan, he doesn't think they are any different from the "good" ones. And as Gregorian says, it doesn't matter. What he's doing is more important than why.
In early January, I went to Africa with Stonesifer and the foundation's director of global health, Gordon Perkin, to see some of the projects they are underwriting in Ghana, Gambia and South Africa. Stonesifer had specifically decided not to call on the heads of governments. She wanted to be able to spend her time talking with people "on the ground" about their work -- on childhood immunization, family planning, cervical cancer, malaria, the reduction of maternal and infant mortality and AIDS. Even before we reached Africa, however, it was apparent that you can't travel around the world representing Bill Gates with any degree of anonymity. At 6:30 a.m., as a jet-lagged Stonesifer waited in line at London's Gatwick Airport en route to Ghana, a New York investment banker standing behind her figured out who she was and told her how she ought to be spending Gates's money. When we arrived at the airport in Accra that night, someone was holding up a misspelled sign that said, "Welcome Bill and Malinda Gates Foundation," and a local hustler tried to charge $5,000 for getting some photography equipment through customs.
The foundation does not generally finance direct delivery of health services. Instead, it channels grants through existing organizations, seeking to identify good projects that are already under way and to find new models and strategies that work. This sounds more conservative than it is. All over the world, health care issues are inseparable from politics and economics, and anyone who has worked in developing countries will tell you that the most difficult problem for potentially lifesaving interventions is delivery -- getting medications and services to the people who need them. The majority of the Gates Foundation's health financing will be directed at improving people's access to existing and newly developing medical technologies. To facilitate that access, the foundation promotes the use of simple tools like vaccines, contraceptives, nutritional supplements, single-use syringes and diagnostic procedures. At an immunization clinic on our first day in Ghana, Dr. Perkin recognized a small circle on the label of a polio vaccine vial -- a warning sign devised by a nonprofit organization he helped found in Seattle called Program for Appropriate Technology in Health. He was delighted when the nurse in charge was able to tell him that the darkening circle meant the vaccine was approaching its expiration date and had to be used right away. Even health workers who cannot read can dispense this medicine.
The Gates Foundation also seeks to support people who are finding innovative ways to approach public health problems and promote major social change. Lynette Denny, for example, whom we saw toward the end of the trip, is a gynecological oncologist working with women in impoverished squatter villages and townships near Cape Town. Most of these women have never seen a gynecologist before, much less had a Pap test. Cervical cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among women in developing countries, but it can effectively be prevented by early detection. Because Pap smears are complicated to administer and expensive to analyze, Dr. Denny's work led her and several colleagues to devise a simple new screening test for cervical cancer. In early January, the Journal of the American Medical Association published a study based on her group's work, showing that the new test detects the precursors of cervical cancer at least as well as the Pap test does. Many questions remain and the research is still under way, but this work could lead to extensive changes in social policy and the saving of millions of lives. Dr. Denny works with the Alliance for the Prevention of Cervical Cancer, which received a $50 million grant over five years from the Gates Foundation in 1999.
Gates has referred to people who don't operate at full mental capacity as having "unused bandwidth." Stonesifer doesn't appear to have any. Throughout the week we spent in Africa she worked from 7 a.m. until midnight every day, talking with people in hospital beds, nursing stations and makeshift doctors' offices, at briefing breakfasts, village councils, private houses and dinner meetings. When we got back to a van or a plane, the rest of us would be ready to sleep or goof off. Stonesifer and Perkin spent the downtime talking about what they had learned, where they would like to go with it and how they would report back to Bill and Melinda. The book she read on the trip was "The Politics of International Health: the Children's Vaccine Initiative and the Struggle to Develop Vaccines for the Third World," by William A. Muraskin.
For a couple of days in Ghana, most of the people we met had never heard of Bill Gates. As we were about to leave for Gambia, however, Stonesifer got word that Ghana's controversial president, Jerry Rawlings, was coming to the airport to see us off. Rawlings has been a surprisingly outspoken advocate of AIDS education, family planning, economic development and women's rights. A big man with a broad face framed by a salt-and-pepper beard, he arrived by helicopter. Striding across the tarmac in black jeans, cowboy boots, a black-and-white Nike warmup jacket and shades, he looked more like a music-industry mogul than a head of state. In the airport lounge he mock-scolded Stonesifer: "Someone like you shouldn't arrive in Ghana without announcing your presence. I'm glad to hear about your noble intentions here. I had to come see you and thank Bill Gates." They talked for a few minutes, then he got around to what Stonesifer calls "the ask." (It is inevitable, and she's not cynical about it; she wants to know what people need.) "What we need in Ghana," said Rawlings, "is to make AIDS testing affordable." Then he stepped back onto the tarmac, signaled the chopper pilot by twirling his finger over his head and took off.
By the time we reached Gambia, its president knew that Rawlings had met with Stonesifer and wanted an audience as well. It took some delicate negotiating to avoid a diplomatic insult. The lesson Stonesifer drew: political leaders play an important role in what the foundation is trying to do, and its officers can't go in under the radar.
The new headquarters of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation offer as sharp a contrast to the stone-and-glass-clad, high-rise, wood-paneled premises of the big East Coast foundations as the new techno-billionaires' dress code does to C.E.O. pinstripes. A two-story tan and gray concrete building, it backs up against a marina on Seattle's Lake Union and is identified only by its street address. (It used to be a check-processing plant, which usually prompts someone to quip that it still is.) Inside, there are ficus trees, an orchid on the receptionist's desk, earth-tone walls, wood and slate-tile floors, several modest executive offices, an open geometry of staff cubicles and 1,700,000 feet of computer cable.
When I first visited Seattle in early December, Nelson Mandela and his wife, Graca Machel, were in town to raise money for their work in Africa -- Mandela and Gates have known each other since 1997 -- and Stonesifer spent part of a morning showing the couple around the building. At one point on the tour Stonesifer stopped, tapped her fingernail on a polished countertop that looked like stone and said: "Sunflower seeds. We're testing new materials. It's very Seattle." Also very Seattle is the foundation's lean, informal structure. Last year, when Gates decided to combine two smaller charitable funds into one and increase the endowment, he specifically chose not to enlarge the foursome in charge of ultimate decisions -- himself, his wife, his father (C.E.O.) and Stonesifer (president) -- and not to appoint a board. He had set up his first foundation in 1994, the year he married Melinda. At a bridal lunch the day before the wedding, his mother, Mary, a prominent civic leader in Seattle, read a letter to the couple saying, in effect, "From those who are given great resources, great things are expected." By all accounts Melinda has played a significant role in directing more of her husband's attention to the world outside Microsoft.
A few months after the wedding, Mary Gates died. Bill's father, who had also been a leader of Seattle's "old" philanthropy -- chiefly the United Way -- was moving toward retirement from the law firm Preston, Gates & Ellis and volunteered to help his son deal with the floods of requests for money that were coming in. (Although the father is William H. Gates Jr. and the son W.H.G. III, people in Seattle refer to the elder Gates as Bill Sr. and to the Microsoft founder as simply Bill.) Now 73 years old, with genial blue eyes, sparse white hair and big glasses, Bill Sr. is 6 feet 6 inches tall and looks like a combination of his son and Paul Volcker. Bill established the William H. Gates foundation in 1994 with $106 million and added about $2 billion over the next four years. It focused on global health issues and projects in the Pacific Northwest. Until last fall, Bill Sr. ran it out of cardboard boxes in the basement of his house.
Gates enlisted Stonesifer to launch the second foundation, aimed at reducing the "digital divide," early in 1997. She had just left Microsoft, where she had been head of the Interactive Media division; Time magazine in 1996 named her one of the 25 most influential people in America. Ready for a change and wanting more time for her two teenage children, she rented an office over a pizza parlor in Redmond and started a management consulting firm. Her first client was DreamWorks SKG. She lasted three months. "Someday I'll write a book called, 'My 12 Weeks in Hollywood,"' she says with a laugh. By March she was running the new $200million Gates library program, which provides computers, Internet access and training and technical support in low-income communities all over the United States and Canada.
She had no hesitation about returning to the workaholic Gates fold. Raised in a Catholic family in Indiana (she was the sixth of nine children), she has always had a strong sense of social responsibility -- she keeps a plastic figure of Jiminy Cricket in her office as a comic reference to her hyperactive conscience. "I loved working with Bill and Melinda at Microsoft, so to be able to use everything we'd learned in technology and turn it to social good, to help shape their philanthropical efforts and give the money back -- this job was tailor-made for me." The foundation has proved no less demanding than Microsoft, but she does have somewhat more flexibility about time.
As the two Gates foundations combined and moved into new headquarters last year, they expanded their accounting and public affairs staffs and appointed executive directors for the library program, education and global health. The Canadian-born Gordon Perkin, director of global health, has more than 35 years of experience in international health and family planning. The foundation's senior adviser for global health is William Foege, a widely revered epidemiologist and former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who was part of the international team that eradicated smallpox. In all, the staff now consists of about 130 people, 110 of whom belong to what Gates calls the Internet Peace Corps -- a team of young computer trainers who spend about half their time on the road wiring public libraries. Which leaves 20 people for everything else, although the officers consult with 60 to 75 experts in various fields. The Ford Foundation has a staff of 567 worldwide.
Stonesifer and Bill Sr. serve as co-chairpersons of the foundation, but she essentially runs it -- he doesn't want to be bothered with decisions about hiring, process and organizational structure. On questions of grant-making, however, she says they are "two in a box -- we try not to be at the same meetings since it's unnecessary; that way we get more done." Still, she confesses with a grin, it can be a little weird that "the other person in the box is Dad." Though she is the only nonfamily member of the group, Stonesifer is so close -- and so fiercely loyal -- to Bill and Melinda that she seems a virtual Gates. How do the foursome handle disagreements? They argue things out, she says: "All of the Gateses, and myself, are strong-minded, strong-willed individuals. That's one reason we get along so well."
Some philanthropy watchers are highly dubious about this all-in-the-family approach. The historian Mark Dowie, who is writing a book on American foundations, recently urged Gates to trade his wife and his father to the Ford Foundation for people with more experience and to set up an executive board with race and gender balance. Gordon Conway, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, however, has been impressed with the leadership of the new Gates enterprise, finding it "extraordinarily well focused in the health field." And Charles Hamilton, executive director of the Clark Foundation, applauds the agility with which a closely held foundation can make decisions: "I hope Gates will continue to maintain personal control -- that he really gets and stays involved."
Gates apparently intends to. He and Melinda set the overall direction and priorities for their giving, and Stonesifer and Bill Sr. report to them constantly -- one on one, in four-way meetings, on the phone and by e-mail, which they call simply "mail." They are rarely all in one place at the same time. Stonesifer travels to New York once a month for CBS board meetings and has been to Davos and India since the Africa trip. The foundation receives more than 3,000 proposals a month, and its public affairs manager, Trevor Neilson, gets about 500 additional personal requests about everything from eviction notices to medical bills to prosthetic limbs. The senior officers, with some staff help, weed out thousands of proposals that do not accord with the Gates aims, then submit lists of projects they would like to finance to Melinda and Bill, who read and talk about the proposals and personally approve every grant over $1 million.
Bill writes questions and comments all over the lists -- sometimes saying simply yes (to a request for $40 million) or no, or "tell me more about respiratory diseases," or "why this country?" or "if this does well what's the next step?" His negative response isn't always final: "When I say no," he says with a grin, "somebody usually comes back with, 'Did you really mean to say no on this one?"' Melinda, who does not give interviews to the press, is more closely involved than her husband in the day-to-day operations of the organization. Do the couple have different kinds of input? "Melinda has a strong interest in children and early childhood," says Stonesifer. "Bill is very interested in medical interventions and new tools, in figuring out what is possible with new scientific technology. And they are both passionate about how those areas can work together."
Once Gates made up his mind to create a single large foundation, he began adding to it at the rate of $5 billion a quarter. And since foundations are required by law annually to give away 5 percent of their assets, the directors of this $21.8 billion fund now have to dispense more than $1 billion a year -- not an easy thing to do well. They insist on careful monitoring to assure that the money is not wasted or mismanaged. They take a long-term, strategic view of what their grants can do, and they place strong emphasis on evaluation procedures -- even though measures of success in the nonprofit world are notoriously hard to come by. Stonesifer says, "I sometimes miss the marketplace, which really kicks you around when you make a mistake."
At first, the selection process was largely reactive. But as the foundation's resources have grown, notes Bill Sr., the process has become more proactive, and the scope of the giving is narrowing to areas in which the money stands to have the greatest impact -- projects that aim at the causes rather than the symptoms of social problems. The officers talk a great deal about leverage, impact, strategy, scale and the "catalytic dollar" and are determined not to let their financing drive other sources of money away. On the contrary, they try to use their grants and Gates's celebrity to bring more partners and dollars to the table.
So far, the Gates domestic programs have drawn more critical fire than the work in international health. Last September the foundation announced that it was pledging $1 billion over 20 years to scholarships for minority students -- for full-time college programs and graduate study in engineering, math, science, education or library science, to be administered by the United Negro College Fund. In October, the conservative Weekly Standard ran an article called "Bill Gates, Minority Leader: A Billion Dollars Is a Terrible Thing to Waste." The argument: that the program should not be race-based and is an attempt to circumvent recent anti-affirmative-action rulings in states like Washington and California.
The library-wiring initiative has had critics from the start. It delivers Gateway machines and free Microsoft programs, which led to a widespread perception that Gates was using his philanthropy to expand the market for Microsoft, much the way tobacco companies hook adolescents on cigarettes. Stonesifer says, "The only software we donate is Microsoft, but these machines are wide open, and many of the libraries load them up with all kinds of other software." The negative reactions did not cause Gates to reconsider the program, reports Stonesifer, but he and Melinda didn't anticipate the cynicism. "Like the rest of us, they want people to think what they're doing is good." Stonesifer says. "It shouldn't have come as a surprise that one of Bill's first major philanthropical projects would be in the field of technology. All first gifts tend to be something you know about, and he had 20 years of technological expertise."
Gates looks back with some amusement at his belated realization that access to technological information might not be the answer to the world's most serious problems. Microsoft was donating computers to poor communities in Africa in the mid-90's, and during a visit to Johannesburg, Gates went to Soweto where he was proudly shown the town's single computer. As he took in his surroundings, he recalls, he said to himself: "Hey, wait a minute -- there's only one electrical outlet in this whole place.' And yup, they had plugged in that computer, and when I was there, man, that thing was running and everybody was very thankful. But I looked around and thought, Hmm, computers may not be the highest priority in this particular place. I wondered, Who the heck is going to be really using this thing?"
He says it was toward the end of 1998 that he realized -- partly through working with Foege and Perkin and partly through his own reading -- how little international attention was being paid to some of the world's most urgent medical problems and how much of a difference his large-scale resources could make. The W.H.O. estimates that malaria kills about two million people a year, nearly half of them children in sub-Saharan Africa, and infects about 200 million more. There has been a 180 percent increase in the number of cases in South Africa over the past year and a dangerous rise in drug resistance to the disease. Roughly 2.3 billion people -- more than a third of the world's population -- are at risk of infection, but since most of them live in the world's poorest countries and cannot buy expensive drugs, there has been no financial incentive for pharmaceutical companies to develop a malaria vaccine. Piers Whitehead of Mercer Consulting has compared large pharmaceuticals to supermodels: they don't get out of bed and go to work for less than $350 million in annual sales for a single product. According to The Economist, the amount of money spent on malaria vaccine research worldwide in 1996 was about $60 million. In June 1999 the Gates Foundation set up a $50 million Malaria Vaccine Initiative. "With one grant," says Gates, "we became the biggest private funder of malaria research. It just sort of blows the mind."
The malaria vaccine research fund creates what economists call a "push" mechanism, providing the means for scientists to conduct studies that would not otherwise be economically feasible. And the foundation is tackling malaria in other ways as well. By putting up $750 million for GAVI, it also gives pharmaceutical companies a "pull" incentive -- essentially saying, "If you develop a vaccine, we'll buy and distribute it." It is the medical equivalent of the fairy tale king who challenges his knights to solve some impossible problem, promising that the man who succeeds will marry his daughter. Still, scientists think it will take at least 10 years to find a vaccine against this extremely complex virus.
The foundation is also applying the "pull" mechanism to the less glamorous but no less urgent problem of getting childhood vaccines that the industrialized world takes for granted -- against measles, whooping cough, tetanus, polio and diphtheria -- to developing countries. It often takes 10 to 15 years for basic vaccines to get to people in poor countries, even though immunization could save millions of lives a year, and administering a $1 shot is much more cost-effective than paying for years of medical care. The $750million fund will buy and distribute those basic drugs, along with new ones against yellow fever, hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenza type B. That was the subject of the panel Gates found so disappointing at Davos. Michael Rothschild, dean of the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton, thinks it "extremely smart of the Gates Foundation to move on all these fronts at the same time. It's hard to think of a more exciting image for science than finding a vaccine for malaria. But figuring out how to distribute a measles vaccine is about as sexy as clearing up the New Jersey Meadowlands."
Twenty-one billion, eight hundred million dollars. It is hard to conceive of that much money. To put the figure in some perspective: as of March 30, 2000, the market capitalization of Apple Computer was $22.5billion; Gannett's was a little more than $20 billion, J.P. Morgan & Co.'s $21.9 billion and Safeway's $20.5billion. The Ford Foundation, America's second largest, has an endowment of $14billion, but its growth, like that of most philanthropical institutions, has come from asset appreciation over time. The Gates Foundation grew by nearly $20 billion in one year. Next to these Olympian sums, the recent charitable gifts of mere mortal billionaires -- like the $150 million given to Stanford University by Jim Clark, the co-founder of Netscape, in 1999, or the $134 million that Warren Buffett and his wife, Susan, divided among four organizations -- begin to look like pocket change.
The United States has not seen philanthropy on this scale since the era of Rockefeller, Carnegie, Morgan and Ford. The sources of America's great fortunes have moved west over the course of the century, but as recently as 15 years ago there were no major foundations in the Pacific Northwest. Now venture capitalists and foreign dignitaries go to Seattle for the same reason Willie Sutton robbed banks. And over the past decade, the wealth created by the information technology and telecommunications businesses has been doing for Seattle what the big railroad and industrial fortunes did for New York in the Gilded Age. The city gleams with new or renovated cultural institutions and sports arenas -- the Seattle Symphony's Benaroya Hall, the Seattle Art Museum, the SuperSonics' Key Arena, the Mariners' Safeco Field and an as yet unbuilt waterfront sculpture park. Some of the new multimillionaires are putting personal time and money into social services and public schools. The Gates Foundation has recently given grants ranging from $5,000 for a local AIDS group to $30 million for King County's United Way.
One of the most ambitious of the Gates-financed projects is the New York-based International AIDS Vaccine Initiative. Founded by an intense, 43-year-old physician named Seth Berkley, IAVI identifies promising AIDS vaccine candidates, then brokers deals with drug manufacturers and developing countries to fast-track the candidates into clinical trials. More than 33 million people are infected with H.I.V. worldwide, about 70 percent of them in sub-Saharan Africa, where AIDS is expected to kill more people in the coming decade than died in all the wars of the 20th century. Only a vaccine could stop this devastation. And as with malaria, pharmaceutical companies are not about to spend enormous amounts of money developing a vaccine that is needed primarily by people who can't afford it. But if IAVI supplies the research money, the pharmaceutical company has no major costs to recoup. In exchange for its financing, IAVI expects the company to provide the vaccine at low cost in developing countries or forfeit the rights to the technology. In the United States the company can charge whatever the market will bear. AIDS researchers believe it could take at least a decade to develop a vaccine against this constantly mutating virus, and some think it won't be possible at all.
Nonetheless, Berkley is determined to get human trials under way. The Gates Foundation gave the AIDS vaccine initiative $1.5million in 1998 in support of a "scientific blueprint." Inaugurated at the international AIDS conference in Geneva in June 1998, the blueprint attracted worldwide attention and brought in additional financing -- $325,000 from the British government and another $160,000 from the Elton John Foundation. That fall, IAVI announced two novel vaccine approaches for Kenya and South Africa and started preparations for clinical trials. Early in 1999 the Gates Foundation granted the AIDS vaccine initiative $25 million to be paid over five years.
Like other Gates projects, this one has critics. Some want more emphasis on forcing pharmaceutical companies to donate huge quantities of therapeutic drugs like AZT to Africa -- an issue that is fraught with economic and political complications. Others spoke off the record because their institutions hope to get Gates grants. One prominent AIDS researcher predicts that the vaccine route will prove fruitless -- that no one knows what will spark broad immunity and, given the infrastructure problems in Africa, it would be impossible to deliver a vaccine even if science found one. He argues that Gates's support of IAVI is about politics and his image. The foundation, the physician suggests, would do a lot more good handing out condoms on truck routes from Kenya than paying hundreds of thousands of dollars to IAVI bureaucrats.
David Ho, the director of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, an affiliate of Rockefeller University, disagrees with this point of view. "Vaccines are the biggest thing in AIDS research today," he says, and the vaccine initiative is "a very worthy project" for Gates Foundation support. Dr. Ho, who came up with the concept of the triple-combination drug therapy that has significantly checked the progress of AIDS in the United States and Europe, thinks the freedom Gates has to provide substantial financing more quickly than the N.I.H. is essential. Wouldn't it be interesting, he reflects, "if Bill Gates were remembered in the future more for his philanthropy than for his work with computers?"
David Baltimore, president of the California Institute of Technology and chairman of the AIDS Research Vaccine Committee, says that AIDS research right now is in greater need of new ideas than of more money, but "we can't possibly do too much" about a disease that has "skyrocketed over everything else in importance." He thinks the vaccine initiative is positioning itself at a crucial juncture between drug companies and developing countries, that the candidates it is moving toward trials are good ones, and that science will learn from the research regardless of the outcome.
One iavi-sponsored vaccine trial is scheduled to begin in Hlabisa, a village in the South African province of KwaZulu/Natal, before the end of 2000. The landscape of undulating hills and neatly planted farms around Hlabisa, 180 miles north of Durban, could be mistaken for Tuscany or Vermont. This beautiful place is the epicenter of South Africa's AIDS epidemic: 38 percent of the population is H.I.V. positive, with the highest incidence among women and men in their 20's. Many of the men leave for months at a time to work in mines near Johannesburg, where they patronize prostitutes or take "town wives" and contract H.I.V. When they return home they infect their rural wives, who often pass the virus along to babies while nursing. A high rate of sexually transmitted diseases (about 25 percent) enhances the ease of H.I.V. transmission. The community's religious leaders spend most of their time officiating at funerals. "This is not an epidemic," says Dr. Salim Abdool Karim, the principal investigator for the IAVI trial project in South Africa. "It's a catastrophe."
The day we were there the community held a meeting in an open field to discuss preparations for a vaccine trial. Because of its high levels of H.I.V. and S.T.D.'s, Hlabisa has a relatively well-developed medical system and a strong community advisory board that includes tribal and religious leaders, teachers and health care and social service workers. The vaccine candidate, started last year with an initial $4.5 million grant from IAVI, is being developed jointly by the South African Medical Research Council, the University of Cape Town, the National Institute of Virology in South Africa and a biotechnology company in Durham, N.C., called AlphaVax. It is based on the strain of H.I.V. that dominates in this region. The first phase of the trial will simply test the vaccine for safety, using healthy volunteers in the United States and South Africa.
After the community meeting I took a walk with Janet Frehlich, a tall woman with short dark hair and a strong South African accent who works in Hlabisa as a field coordinator for the Medical Research Council. The vaccine trial has to run in tandem with education and prevention, she said; measures that are perceived as "punitive," like insistence on men using condoms, have failed, and health workers are now trying to teach women how to protect themselves. They are also trying to teach both men and women how to talk about sex and S.T.D.'s. A soccer game that had been going on during the meeting was still under way. As we stood watching the players, I realized that nearly a third of them will probably be dead in 15 years. Frehlich said, "If you ask the boys what they know about AIDS, they say: 'We've learned not to sleep with the thin girls. Only sleep with the fat ones."'
At the White House in March, President Clinton inaugurated his Millennium Vaccine Initiative, which includes a $1 billion tax credit for drug companies to speed up the development of new vaccines and $50million for the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization purchase fund -- and he acknowledged the Gateses' leadership in these areas. The Gates Foundation is a relative newcomer to the field of global health, but in collaboration with others it has helped to create a sense of urgency about a wide range of international health problems, to mobilize vast financial resources and to bring these issues to the forefront of economic and political debate.
On the subject of his own politics, Gates has refused to characterize himself as conservative or liberal and declines to declare a party affiliation. He contributes to both parties. Last fall he told Sam Howe Verhovek of The New York Times that he thinks the Republicans often do a good job of figuring out how to encourage wealth creation while Democrats tend to think more about how to spread wealth around -- and those are both things I think are very important." He went on, with a smile: "When people attack the wealth-creation mechanisms, it seems to push me in one direction, and when they don't take spreading the wealth seriously, well, that pushes me in the other direction."
The Gates Foundation has a decidedly liberal agenda -- intervening to offset social inequities in health and education -- and the online magazine Salon "outed" Gates as a "closet liberal" in 1998 for supporting family planning, gun safety and organizations that opposed tax cuts in Washington State. The downsizing of federal spending on health and social programs over the last two decades, along with a widespread decline of public confidence in Washington, has steadily shifted responsibility for social welfare issues to state and local initiatives and to private philanthropy. And though some conservatives dislike the Gates Foundation's choices and others think the money would do more good left in the marketplace, many favor this kind of privatization. Edward Crane, president of the Cato Institute in Washington -- a libertarian policy center -- says: "I applaud Gates for all the wealth he's created. It's his money, and he can do with it whatever he likes."
Times of extraordinary prosperity in America periodically draw national attention to the nature and reach of private philanthropy, raising moral and legal questions about accountability, taxation, spending requirements and limitations on charitable giving. Susan Berresford, the president of the Ford Foundation, points out that Americans are at once fascinated by and profoundly uneasy about wealth and the power it confers, and she urges her colleagues to welcome increased public scrutiny. Michael E. Porter and Mark R. Kramer have argued in a recent Harvard Business Review that foundations need to improve their performance and justify their tax-exempt status by creating value much the way businesses do. Peter Bienstock, a Princeton, N.J., investor, predicts that the tremendous current flow of money into private foundations is going to create pressure for greater government regulation -- that we are moving toward a period of "charitable trust-busting." And Joel L. Fleishman, a law professor at Duke University and president of the Atlantic Philanthropic Service Company in New York, has called for a new federal agency to regulate the nonprofit sector.
Probably the warning I heard most often in conversations about the Gates Foundation had to do with the law of unintended consequences. "Grant-making on that scale is a very difficult art," says Edward A. Ames at the Mary Flagler Cary Charitable Trust, who fears that the people in charge of the "huge new pools of money being turned to philanthropy" may not know enough about "the impact they can have on the fields that are the objects of their generosity."
Richard Gilder, an investment manager, cautions, "Giving is as tough a business as getting." Gilder has done a substantial amount of both. "You can do so much damage," he says. "The rule in philanthropy, as in medicine, should be, 'First, do no harm."'
The best story about unintended consequences comes from Gordon Conway at the Rockefeller Foundation, who worked as an entomologist in Borneo in the 1960's. In an attempt to control malaria, the W.H.O. sprayed houses with DDT. The campaign did kill mosquitoes and reduced the incidence of malaria, but it had side effects. House lizards ate the dead bugs, then cats ate the lizards and died from the accumulated insecticide. Without cats, the local rat population exploded -- rats that could carry plague and typhus. Neighboring states donated cats to the affected upland regions. For the remote interior, the W.H.O. and Singapore's Royal Air Force devised a maneuver worthy of Disney called Operation Cat Drop: they packed cats into perforated containers and sent them plummeting into upland villages by parachute.
The day we drove to Hlabisa in mid-January, the Gates Foundation group took off two hours between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. for a mini-safari at the Phinda game reserve in Zululand on the eastern coast of South Africa. The high point was a mother cheetah with four cubs, who let us watch her from about 20 yards away for nearly 10 minutes. As we drove back toward the lodge, our guide, Gavin, said that since there is no hunting in the park, the predators tend to take over and kill too many other animals. As a result, the wardens periodically capture some of the big cats and send them off to other parks.
"Is that a good idea?" Patty Stonesifer wanted to know. "To intervene in nature that way?" Gavin said, "Oh, they do it at all the big parks, even Kruger," which didn't really answer the question.
"It's such an enormous responsibility," Stonesifer reflected. "How do you know how far to go?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: United way: Bill Gates Sr. helps administer the billions in his son's foundation, as does Patty Stonesifer, previous page.; Stonesifer on a January trip to Africa to visit some of Gates's philanthropical projects.; Inner circle: Gates, second from left, flanked by his father and wife, at a foundation board meeting. Also attending, from right, are William Foege, Gordon Perkin and Stonesifer. (Norman Jean Roy for The New York Times; Liz Gilbert/Corbis Sygma, for The New York Times; Dan Lamont for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Where the Money Goes"
 
$1 billion over 20 years to establish the Gates Millennium Scholarship Program, which will support promising minority students through college and some kinds of graduate school.
 
$750 million over five years to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, which includes the World Health Organization, the Rockefeller Foundation, Unicef, pharmaceutical companies and the World Bank.
 
$350 million over three years to teachers, administrators, school districts and schools to improve America's K-12 education, starting in Washington State.
 
$200 million to the Gates Library Program, which is wiring public libraries in America's poorest communities in an effort to close the "digital divide."
 
$100 million to the Gates Children's Vaccine Program, which will accelerate delivery of lifesaving vaccines to children in the poorest countries of the world.
 
$50 million to the Maternal Mortality Reduction Program, run by the Columbia University School of Public Health.
 
$50 million to the Malaria Vaccine Initiative, to conduct research on promising candidates for a malaria vaccine.
 
$50 million to an international group called the Alliance for the Prevention of Cervical Cancer.
 
$50 million to a fund for global polio eradication, led by the World Health Organization, Unicef, Rotary International and the U.N. Foundation.
 
$40 million to the International Vaccine Institute, a research program based in Seoul, South Korea.
 
$28 million to Unicef for the elimination of maternal and neonatal tetanus.
 
$25 million to the Sequella Global Tuberculosis Foundation.
 
$25 million to the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, which is creating coalitions of research scientists, pharmaceutical companies and governments in developing countries to look for a safe, effective, widely accessible vaccine against AIDS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); CWE (ASX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; GATES, BILL AND MELINDA, FOUNDATION MICROSOFT CORP (56%); CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (55%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (91%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (59%); ROTARY INTERNATIONAL (59%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (59%); ROTARY INTERNATIONAL (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (54%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; GATES, BILL AND MELINDA, FOUNDATION UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (91%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (59%); ROTARY INTERNATIONAL (59%); UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (59%); ROTARY INTERNATIONAL (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (54%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); JUDGES (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (62%); 

PERSON: GATES, WILLIAM H JR; GATES, WILLIAM H SR; STONESIFER, PATTY; GATES, MELINDA; STROUSE, JEAN BILL GATES (94%); MELINDA GATES (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



392 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 79; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Style;
House Of Mirth

BYLINE: By William Norwich 

 BODY:
Park Avenue princes and princesses, the latest darlings of the media, are wearing python-skin Gucci jeans during the cocktail hour and worrying about where to put the second nanny when the trendy feng shui expert finally files his report. Vintage Norman Bel Geddes cocktail sets are selling for upwards of several thousand dollars online. One million new millionaires were minted in the United States in the past decade, and almost all of them seem to be in the market for lofts in festive TriBeCa.
People are actually drinking Ecuadorean ceviche martinis. (I want names!)
Is it some kind of social indicator that there are two theatrical productions this spring of "The Wild Party," inspired by Joseph Moncure March's 1928 poem about a lush night of Prohibition-era debauchery? "Leave your inhibitions at the door . . . and step inside the Virginia Theater for an evening of gin, skin, sin and fun!" reads one production's ad. Later this spring comes "Groove," a divertingly cool independent film about some San Francisco kids who put on a Dionysian "rave" under outlaw conditions not unlike the 1920's wild parties, except the props have changed: yesterday's bathtub gin is today's stove-top Ecstasy. 
 Parties are inevitable. To revel is human, and to dress in party fashions, sometimes divine. "Parties are always tribal, to do with membership of a group; they are also to do with the warding off of tribal terrors and the conjuring up of tribal pride and joy," explains the British social observer John Wells. "The Solomon Islanders bunch up and dance to frighten away the dodore or Giant Wandering Penis they fear will come to destroy their livelihood: executives in London and New York do the same to scare away the specter of unemployment."
Penance paid for the gilt of the 80's, the end of minimalism and money, money everywhere have people practically dancing in the streets -- all this acquisitive frivolity, all this trying to have fun again. Parties used to be fun, I'm told. Alas, for some time now business interests have revved society's engine during all three courses, the starter, the entree and dessert. Many of the hosts remembered most since World War II have entertained with a decided business slant, some hiding their motives better than others: Malcolm Forbes, Andy Warhol, the real estate agent Alice Mason and, before them, Benjamin Sonnenberg, the almost ducal public relations executive whose spirit might still be alive in Midtown. At least Richard Tyler suspects so.
One night, after a small dinner party at home, Tyler couldn't sleep. At 3 a.m., he left his bedroom to ramble through his grand house at 19 Gramercy Park South. Insomniac's delight: Tyler has 37 rooms to get lost in. "I was fiddling around, still discovering things in the house, getting the feeling for the place when, behind some paneling in one of the living rooms, I found an old radio. I turned it on, but there wasn't any power. I walked away, and suddenly I heard music. Big-band music. It was like a scene in 'The Shining.' "
Tyler returned to the radio, and, still no power, but there was this music playing. "I didn't tell anyone, but my sisters, who were visiting from Australia, heard the music and commented on it the next morning."
Tyler likes to think the music he heard was a welcoming serenade from the spirit of Benjamin Sonnenberg, who owned the Gramercy Park house from 1945 until his death in 1978. Sonnenberg came to the United States from Brest-Litovsk when he was 9 and "resolved to become a cross between Conde Nast and Otto Kahn," he told The New Yorker in 1950. In 1926, he became a publicity man and eventually included among his clients Philip Morris, CBS, Lever Brothers and the Federated Department stores. Sonnenberg didn't deal in "items." He was not the sort of P.R. man portrayed in "The Sweet Smell of Success." Benjamin Sonnenberg got his clients covers of Fortune and Time.
"An impressive man, he was certainly that: in the mode of the late 19th century; a 'new' man to the dons and peers he loved to entertain, an 'aristocrat' to the company heads he was hired by," writes his son, Ben, the founder of the literary journal Grand Street, in "Lost Property: Memoirs and Confessions of a Bad Boy." "Our home, my home, was a stage for his work."
The house on Gramercy Park was built in 1845 for the Whig politician William Samuel Johnson. In 1887, it was redesigned for the Stuyvesant Fish family. According to the architectural historian David Garrard Lowe, Mrs. Fish wanted "a fittingly magnificent stairway upon which she could perch to proclaim her defiance of Caroline Webster Schermerhorn Astor," the Mrs. Astor of the day. Benjamin Sonnenberg bought the house from the Fish family in 1945. Soon after he died, an Austrian baron bought the property, followed by Richard Tyler and his wife, Lisa Trafficante, who acquired the house in 1995 for $3.5 million. It is now for sale for $18 million. (Sonnenberg paid $89,000.)
Sonnenberg's parties perfected the idea of the New York social "mix" -- the many classes of people who met in World War II and returned to take Manhattan. "I hate being a guest," he told The New Yorker. "I don't have to drink the wine -- I just like to hear it gurgle. I like to mix people up," he said. "I think a really good dinner party should consist of an archbishop, an authoress, a lady of easy virtue, a tycoon and a Powers model." His mix was never arbitrary. "There are some people who are really only meant to come to cocktail parties, and some people who are really only meant to come to dinner parties, and you have to exercise certain selective qualities as a host."
The interior decorator Dorothy Draper helped Sonnenberg decorate his house with imported English paneling, antiques and art, including a Sargent portrait. "I may gross five or six hundred thousand dollars a year," Sonnenberg said, "but to the public, the business I'm in still seems a flimflam, fly-by-night business. I want my house and my office to convey an impression of stability and to give myself a dimension, a background and tradition that go back to the Nile."
By contrast to the five-star decor, the cuisine at 19 Gramercy Park South was fine but uneventful. Sonnenberg often served lamb chops and a compote of fruit. "My father's food was simple," recalled his daughter, Helen Tucker. "Never mounds of caviar." For instance, for a reception for friends like Hedda Hopper, Sonnenberg might serve Champagne and roast beef on white bread from Pepperidge Farm, one of his clients.
And thus we have today's pride of arbiters disguising business as conviviality: our city's publicists, the keepers of the party lists. Sonnenberg didn't invent this, however. He just advanced the cause of networking in his time. I think you might find the tradition dates back to Caesar, who always entertained with a salad of mixed agendas.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Tyler's house at 19 Gramercy Park South once belonged to Benjamin Sonnenberg, the consummate P.R. man.; As documented by Sonnenberg's grandson Steven Tucker, the house the way it looked in Sonnenberg's time, clockwise from above: His party accounts from 1961; one of several dining rooms; the grand staircase modified in 1887; signed memorabilia on the landing; a boarded-up pantry that the house's current owners, Richard Tyler and Lisa Trafficante, uncovered; one of several parlors, with Grinling Gibbons's wood carvings over the fireplace. (Gary Powell; Steven Tucker)
 
Chart: "Pre-eminent Party Properties (hurry while supply lasts)"
 
* 171 West 57th Street: Earl Blackwell's former penthouse with ballroom, $6.7 million.
* The Parc Vendome, 340 West 57th Street: Stunning nine-room prewar condo, with 1,250 square feet of terraces, $3.75 million.
* 740 Park Avenue: 34 rooms owned by Saul Steinberg, $35 million plus. SOLD.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: PARTIES (SOCIAL); INTERIOR DESIGN; HOUSING FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); THEATER (57%); WORLD WAR II (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NORWICH, WILLIAM; SONNENBERG, BENJAMIN BENJAMIN SONNENBERG (85%); RICHARD TYLER (82%); STUYVESANT FISH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



393 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 16; Column 5; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: The New American Worker

 BODY:
In her article "The Price of Freedom" (March 5), Nina Munk claims that my numbers on free agents are flawed. But simply add the figures for self-employed Americans, temps and people working in microbusinesses (enterprises with five or fewer workers) and you get nearly one-fourth of the American work force. Of course, further calculation would reveal that this means roughly three-fourths of American workers are not free agents, which hardly qualifies as the hype-glazed factoid she accuses me of confecting. 
 Yet the stubborn truth is that free agents tend to be a happy lot. Yes, some of these new-age workers -- especially low-wage temps -- have an awful life. But ample academic research -- particularly the work of the Dartmouth economist David Blanchflower -- has found that people who work for themselves have considerably greater job satisfaction and overall happiness than those who work for organizations.
 
Daniel H. Pink
Washington 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); 

PERSON: PINK, DANIEL H; MUNK, NINA NINA MUNK (67%); DANIEL H PINK WASHINGTON (62%); DAVID BLANCHFLOWER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



394 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices: Upward, Ho!

 BODY:

To the Editor:
An article on March 26 "Suburban Home Prices: Upward, Ho!" described 1999 "as the fourth straight record-setting year for home prices throughout the nation" Other recent articles note that gasoline prices have been soaring in the last year, health insurance premiums are expected to rise 10 to 15 percent in 2000, and meat, fruit and tobacco prices shot up in February.
Such facts and figures, however, don't seem to worry economists and Wall Street professionals who see no signs of inflation. These experts now focus on core inflation, rather than the overall variety, and this core rate, featuring lower auto and computer prices, has been rising at a very modest 0.2 percent per month. 
 For consumers like myself, the message from the experts is clear: all we need do to stop feeling an inflationary pinch is eat and smoke less, stop traveling, avoid shelter costs and dispense with health-care outlays, while spending exclusively on new cars and laptops. It's so simple. One wonders why no one thought of this before.
 
MICHAEL SILVERSTEIN
Lawrenceville, N.J. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUBURBS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SUBURBS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL SILVERSTEIN LAWRENCEVILLE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



395 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Its Sales Tax, Nassau Loses Sales

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
AS Edward Burch of Huntington Station walked out of the Sears store in Hicksville with his mother-in-law, carrying two blouses he had just bought for her, he was reminded that Nassau County still charges a 4.25 percent sales tax on all clothing.
"I knew that clothing under $110 was not to be taxed, but I didn't remember that the tax still applied in Nassau County," he said. "In the future, I'm going to remember to buy my clothes in Suffolk." 
 Nassau's budget deficit did not allow the county to join Suffolk and New York City on March 1 when they dropped their 4.25 percent sales taxes on clothing and shoes costing $110 or less. On the same date, New York State eliminated its 4 percent sales tax on such items.
Tax-free clothing has proved a powerful incentive for Nassau residents to shop in Suffolk. And some Suffolk lawmakers are proposing legislation to lure even more shoppers, much to the annoyance of Nassau officials.
As a measure of the disparity, Pearl Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, said, Suffolk County's sales tax revenue rose 10.2 percent from March 1999, while the gain in Nassau was only 1 percent. "There has been a disparity for the last couple of a years," she added, "but this is the largest it has been."
The general manager of the Tanger Outlet Center in Riverhead, Janine Nebons, estimated that the percentage of Nassau shoppers in March nearly doubled from last year. "Normally, Nassau residents comprise 35 to 40 percent of all sales," she said. "That number shot up to more like 60 percent."
Overall traffic at the mall also skyrocketed: up 70 percent in the first week of March, 60 percent the second, 58 percent the third and 47 percent in the week ending March 26. With Nassau residents making up a higher percentage of a much higher total, the actual number of shoppers from Nassau more than doubled.
"During 1999, in a typical day in March, there were about 6,000 cars during the week," Ms. Nebons said. "This year, during an average weekday, we had 10,750 cars, and our weekend traffic has been up 45 percent every week."
She said that based on customers' comments to store managers, it appears that Nassau residents are "acutely aware of the difference in the sales tax and determined to come out here rather than to pay the tax."
"The rising cost of gasoline should have killed us," she added, "but it didn't seem to have an impact. And once they were out this far, they stopped at other places. The wineries tell us that this was the best spring they have had in a long time. We had predicted a spillover, and it is occurring."
But she added, "How long the honeymoon will last is anybody's guess."
To keep it going, a Republican Suffolk County legislator, Cameron Alden of Islip, has introduced legislation that would have the county mount a $200,000 advertising campaign to lure Nassau shoppers. There is also talk of signs on the county line reading: "Welcome to Suffolk County, tax-free zone for clothing."
To which Judith A. Jacobs, a Democrat and the presiding officer of the Nassau County legislature, responded that she found it "very disturbing that a sister county would even contemplate taking advantage of the fiscal distress of a neighboring county." Still, she added: "Why would a young family needing clothing for their children not be inclined to go east to Suffolk? There has definitely been an impact on our sales."
But Connie Abraham, the owner of Outrageous Kidswear in Plainview, said: "Everyone wants to know why Nassau is still charging tax while Suffolk is not. I tell them there is nothing I can do; I can't change the rules. But it hasn't had an impact on my store. My customers are not going to travel to another county to save $4 on a $100 sale."
Tony Spring, executive vice president of marketing for Bloomingdale's, said his Nassau store was continuing to charge the county sales tax. "We are not prepared to absorb it over a long period of time," he said. "We did so for short periods in September and January, but we have not seen anyone do it permanently." He was referring to the weeklong, tax-free weeks the state held on all clothing under $500.
Ms. Kamer, the economist, pointed out that Suffolk's sales tax income has been increasing at a faster rate than Nassau's because of Suffolk's younger residents. They shop at local clothing stores and restaurants more frequently than Nassau's older residents, who "have deep pockets but spend differently: they are paying college tuition, fixing up their homes or taking lavish vacations, and I think the Nassau sales tax will probably exacerbate the difference."
Ms. Kamer said the Nassau sales tax would require residents there to "balance the need to save money against the convenience of shopping locally."
As Liz Levinson of Freeport raced into Sears in Hicksville recently, she said Nassau's clothing sales tax never entered her mind.
"I don't buy that much clothing, and when I need something I just buy it," she said. "Of all the things that bother me about Nassau County, this is way down on the list. High on the list are children who are not getting a good education or who are going to sleep without adequate food. And that is not being addressed."
Ms. Jacobs agreed, saying the county has been "irresponsibly managed for the past 10 years."
"It's affecting our youth board, our ability to care for the young and county mental health services," Ms. Jacobs said. "The people in Nassau County have been so badgered that tax-free clothing is probably the last thing on their list."
Faced with a budget shortfall this year of between $135 million and $200 million, Ms. Jacobs said, the sales tax will probably remain. "I hope we can end it next year, but more realistically I'd say two years," she added. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; TAXATION; APPAREL; SHOES AND BOOTS SALES TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); RETAILERS (90%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GASOLINE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); WINERIES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART PEARL KAMER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



396 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
High-Tech Firms Power an Office-Market Rebound

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
BUOYED by an infusion of Internet and telecommunications companies looking for a less-expensive alternative to Manhattan and Fairfield County, Westchester's office market is continuing its rebound from an almost decadelong malaise.
"The numbers this quarter are just unbelievable," said Dean J. Shapiro, the executive director of the Insignia/ESG real estate services company in Westchester and Connecticut. "Last year we really started to see an improvement, and it's just continuing." 
 At the end of the first quarter of 2000, Westchester's vacancy rate fell to 13.8 percent, the lowest in more than 10 years, according to an Insignia/ESG report. The figure represents a drop of more than four percentage points compared to the same time last year, when the rate was 17.9 percent.
A total of 712,140 square feet of office space was leased countywide in the first quarter, Insignia/ESG said. "That's 16 percent more than was leased in the first quarter last year," Mr. Shapiro said, "which is particularly impressive when you consider that the first quarter is usually pretty quiet."
Mr. Shapiro attributed the improvement to many factors, most notably the robust economy. "A lot of Internet and telecommunications companies are coming into Westchester now," he said, "especially White Plains, where they can hook up with lots of connectivity and high-technology infrastructure. These companies are also bottom-line oriented, and they're attracted to Westchester because of the comparatively lower rents."
While the average annual rent in Westchester increased 15 cents from 1999 to $23.80 a square foot, it is far lower than typical rents in Stamford and Greenwich, Conn., which can be 25 to 50 percent higher, Mr. Shapiro said, and in Manhattan, where annual rents for prime space can be $70 a square foot and up.
Another factor helping Westchester is the growing lack of suitable space elsewhere, said Frank Boccanfuso, president of FMB Real Estate Services in White Plains. "Westchester's success this quarter is really by default," Mr. Boccanfuso said. "With practically no space available in Fairfield and Manhattan, Westchester is like the last person at the dance. If you want to dance, you're going to have to deal with Westchester."
The central business district of White Plains saw the greatest improvement in the first quarter, with the vacancy rate falling to 19 percent, compared to 22 percent last year and 30 percent the year before.
"Dropping 11 percentage points is just amazing," Mr. Shapiro said. In the first quarter, White Plains accounted for 38 percent of all leasing in the county. And in White Plains, Mr. Shapiro said, 79 percent of the space leased -- a total of eight leases, for 210,700 square feet -- was taken by technology firms.
FIVE of the county's 10 largest lease transactions were for space in the central business district of White Plains. One of the most significant, Mr. Shapiro said, was a lease for 79,736 square feet taken by Metromedia Fiber Network Services at 360 Hamilton Avenue in White Plains. The fiber-optic communications company is expanding and relocating from 1 Lexington Avenue in White Plains.
"That lease is significant because it's a major high-tech company that chose to expand in White Plains," Mr. Shapiro said, "but also because it involves the turnaround of one of the most problematic buildings in the county. That building and 120 Bloomingdale Road, also in White Plains, were vacant buildings just languishing on the market. Now they're back. That's very critical to the improvement of White Plains."
The owner of 360 Hamilton, Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, reopened the 380,000-square-foot building last December after completing a $50 million renovation. It had been vacant for 10 years, after being vacated by its only tenant, I.B.M.
Since its reemergence in the marketplace with a new name, the Reckson Metro Center, a total of 172,000 square feet has been leased, and an additional 160,000 square feet is now out for negotiation, according to Salvatore Campofranco, managing director of Reckson's Westchester division.
"We're more than pleased," Mr. Campofranco said. "Obviously this building was needed in the marketplace." He said that before Reckson decided to invest in the building's capital improvement, it determined that "with New York City's market tightening, there was a lot of demand for this type of building -- and we were right."
The building's rapid success indicates a "sea change in how people perceive the central business district," Mr. Campofranco said. "Well-capitalized companies from a variety of industries now have White Plains on their radar."
The building has attracted a variety of businesses, he said, including high-technology, financial services and sales firms. "The average lease size is 28,000 square feet," he said. "These are not little companies."
At 120 Bloomingdale Road, all 150,000 square feet are now leased.
ANOTHER sign pointing to the renewed health of Westchester's market, brokers say, is the increased interest in the county's office buildings from outside investors, including some from abroad.
The latest example is the acquisition last month of the former Nestle USA headquarters in Purchase by a German-led investment group. The group, BfG/LaSalle Investment, a partnership involving a German bank and a Chicago-based real estate company, paid $47.5 million for the 280,000-square-foot building on 35 acres.
Nestle vacated the building in 1991 when it moved its headquarters to Glendale, Calif., but it continued to own the property, which is fully leased.
"Nestle was just waiting for a good time to sell," said Patrick Colwell, an investment services group senior manager with Grubb & Ellis, which represented Nestle in the sale. "Westchester has been lagging behind Fairfield and Manhattan. But now there's no space in those places anymore, and everyone's looking at Westchester. That created the kind of market conditions that were conducive to a sale."
Mr. Boccanfuso of FMB said that the market conditions had spurred him to invest $16 million this year to buy and renovate a vacant building at 287 Bowman Avenue in Purchase that had been owned by the New York Life Insurance Company.
He said that the 120,500-square-foot building was vacated three years ago by its primary tenant, R. H. Donnelley, an advertising marketer. "We're planning on spending $5 million to completely redo it," he said.
Mr. Boccanfuso said that because the building is vacant, "the buyers better be pretty sure that the market is coming their way -- which we are."
"We're confident in that," he said, "or we wouldn't be investing the money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former Nestle USA headquarters in Purchase was sold last month to BfG/LaSalle Investment, pointing to the renewed health of the Westchester office market. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RA (NYSE) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER DAVID DAVIS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



397 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Colombia to the East End: A Tale of Success

BYLINE: By JOY ALTER HUBEL 

 BODY:
IN these heady days of stock-market surges and overnight millionaires, success stories are everywhere. Most are high-tech, dot-com tales, but they often feature young, hard-working businessmen, like Fredy Bedoya, a landscape contractor who held tightly to the reins of the galloping economy and rode it to success.
Except that Mr. Bedoya, a native of Colombia, is probably the only businessman to have started his ride on a rusty three-speed bicycle, peddling his landscape services door to door, Montauk to Bridgehampton. 
 Working as a dishwasher for $3 an hour, and then as a seasonal landscaper for twice that, he was eventually able to buy a rake, a pair of hedge shears and an edging tool -- the limit to what could be carried on the back of a bicycle.
"I would knock on people's doors and offer to do clean-ups and lawns, but because my English was so bad, they couldn't even understand me," he said.
Today, nine years after clipping his first Island hedge, Mr. Bedoya, 32 years old and the owner of Sag Harbor Landscaping, operates seven trucks and a $500,000 business and counts among his clients an impressive roster of East End regulars, including George Plimpton, Tom Wolfe and Chuck Close.
Last December he purchased a six-acre former potato farm in Jamesport for $400,000, and is making it the site of a new nursery that he hopes will double his operation.
But the distance Mr. Bedoya hopes to go seems modest compared with the distance he has come, a 6,000-mile pilgrimage from Colombia to the United States, partly on foot.
"I always knew I could make it in the U.S.," said Mr. Bedoya, who eagerly gave up a sales job in Pereira, Colombia, where he earned the equivalent of $50 a month, for the possibility of something better.
"I sold my motorcycle, bought a ticket to Panama, and from there made my way, on foot, one country at a time, through Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico," he said. "I just thought of it as a big adventure -- always to go forward, never back.
"People in Colombia struggle so hard just getting from day to day that often they don't care so much about life and death. They are happy to take their chances through the tunnel," says Mr. Bedoya, referring to his uncertain underground journey.
By the time Mr. Bedoya reached Mexico, he was rail-thin from hunger and half hoping to be arrested just so he could get fed. But when this wish came true and Mexican law enforcers finally did throw him into a detention center, he was badly beaten. Fortunately, a sympathetic officer allowed him to escape.
Once out of prison he hired a guide who, in exchange for a $1,200 i.o.u., agreed to escort Mr. Bedoya and 300 other immigrants to the United States border. Traveling mostly at night, he eventually made his way to Los Angeles, where he worked long enough to buy a plane ticket to the East Coast.
"They told me how much higher the salaries were in the East, but they didn't say how much colder it was," he said. "I remember driving my bicycle through terrible snow storms, and my hair turning into the shape of an ice cube."
But Mr. Bedoya did not let frozen winters chill his resolve.
"What is different is his determination, perseverance and ambition," said Michelle Stark, business adviser at the Brookhaven satellite of SUNY-Stony Brook's Small-Business Development Center, where Fredy Bedoya is her client. The same mix of tenacity and resourcefulness that carried him from South America to Sag Harbor is what makes him successful in business, she added.
The same might be said about countless other Latino immigrants who will risk everything for a foothold in a financially secure life. One sly suggestion about how to solve immigration problems is making the rounds: expel everyone from the United States, including the native born, then allow only those resourceful enough to make it back across the border to stay.
"Through every cycle of economic innovation in this country, immigrants have been a force of transformation and have changed the face of the economy's distressed areas," Ms. Stark noted.
Today that distress arises from the shortage of manual labor that the Island faces. The contractors and landscapers who have been buoyed by the economic expansion of the past 10 years have grown dependent on immigrants.
"We like our lawns green on Long Island," said Margarita Grasing, executive director of the Hispanic Brotherhood of Rockville Centre, which offers employment referrals and counseling to the Latino population. "Thirty years ago, no one had landscapers; now most of us do. And as you walk past them, you hear only Spanish being spoken."
Hispanic immigration has come in waves, starting with Cubans and Puerto Ricans 40 years ago, then Dominicans and now Central Americans. And while many of the earlier immigrants ended up in the restaurant and grocery business, Latinos have now been turning to landscaping and construction.
Unfortunately, Ms. Grasing notes, "Today many of the Hispanic communities are welcomed as workers, but not so as neighbors."
This is particularly true on the East End, where many immigrants are drawn by tourist dollars, according to Edna Stech, social worker for the Hispanic outreach program of the East Hampton Town Department of Human Services.
"Although they do find seasonal jobs, they are finding it hard to make homes here," Ms. Stech said. "There is little housing, transportation, day care and health services available. One of the problems is that the 1990 census has greatly underreported their population. We are trying to encourage them to participate in this census, and to assure them that it won't get them into trouble."
Nevertheless, a mutually dependent economic lifeline has linked the agricultural and Hispanic communities.
"Many Hispanic immigrants have worked their way up from laborers and crewmen to foremen," says Ellen Talmadge, president of the Long Island Nursery and Landscape Association, and director of marketing for Talmadge Nursery. "It's a great place for people to start out. If they don't know the language, they learn from other workers. And the nice thing about growing plants is that you don't need English skills."
She estimates that about half of the agricultural and landscaping work force is Hispanic. Job opportunities are still plentiful, from crew members to truck drivers.
Mr. Bedoya said most of his employees are Latino, and he is ready to pay for landscaping courses that his workers may want to take, and otherwise give them an opportunity to learn a business that they may be able to start for themselves one day.
But Mr. Bedoya is still the exception. According to the Long Island Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, there are about 3,000 Latino-owned businesses on the Island, but more than 300,000 Latino residents. Luis Vazquez, president of the chamber, said that though economic success is coming for many Hispanic residents, the pace is relatively slow.
"It is still very hard to break into corporate or administrative positions," Mr. Vasquez said, "and most successes occur in small retail businesses where a few thousand dollars of investment can go a long way in starting a service-oriented businesses, like a maintenance company, bodegas and now landscaping."
But Hispanic entrepreneurs still face a longer, slower path than their American counterparts. Mr. Vasquez estimated that where it may take an American two to five years to get a business going, Latinos take 5 to 10 years.
"Within that time period a lot of dreams die," he added. "People go through so much just to get here, and when they do they realize the struggle is really just beginning and that there is no welcoming committee, they get very discouraged."
Still, many of the hopeful who fill parking lots in the early morning hours waiting for contractors to give them a day's work reflect not only the successful Latinos who have come before them, but the successes of other immigrant groups, too. The Italian stonemasons in the early 20th century, the Polish potato farmers of the 40's, they and many others managed to weave themselves permanently into the fabric of the Island's economy.
"I think there is room for everyone," Mr. Vazquez said. "And if everyone pulls together to help, we won't have to look at immigrants standing around in parking lots."
 
A Diverse Island
Articles in this series are looking beyond the stereotypes that sometimes taint relations between immigrants and native-born Long Islanders. Future articles will examine immigrants' lives and how they are being woven -- or not -- into the social and economic fabric. Previous articles examined the lives and aspirations of Muslims on the Island, and a Korean entrepreneur and her American-raised son.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fredy Bedoya and his fiancee, Alexandra Whitecombe, in the office of his landscaping business in Jamesport. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); COSTA RICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE; SAG HARBOR LANDSCAPING

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE; SAG HARBOR LANDSCAPING

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); COSTA RICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; COLOMBIAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (77%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); SALES FORCE (67%); ARRESTS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: HUBEL, JOY ALTER; BEDOYA, FREDY GEORGE AMES PLIMPTON (55%); THOMAS KENNERLY 'TOM' WOLFE JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



398 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Raking In Taxes Is Hard Work For the I.R.S., Too

BYLINE: By CAROL STEINBERG 

DATELINE: HOLTSVILLE

 BODY:
WHEN Theresa Colangelo was hired as a temporary data-transcriber at the Brookhaven Internal Revenue Service Center in Holtsville last tax season, she learned the true meaning of number crunching.
To meet her quota, she had to process 27 documents and tap 6,600 keystrokes an hour. If she could get the pace up to 31 documents an hour and keep her error rate low, she could get incentive pay. 
 Ms. Colangelo recalls the long hours saddled in front of the computer -- and the pressure. "The numbers would start to jump all over the page," she said.
So when she returned in February as a four-month employee, Ms. Colangelo cut her hours from eight to six each day. Still, she said, "It's crazy over there."
As taxpayers scurry to meet the deadline for filing their returns by midnight Monday -- an extra two days because the traditional April 15 fell on a Saturday -- the 67-acre complex is running on overdrive.
Temporary employees like Ms. Colangelo inflate employee ranks here to 5,200 during the peak season, from 2,400 workers in the quiet of November.
Inside a beige brick building that spans the space of five football fields, I.R.S. administrators are bracing for a swelling avalanche of returns while striving to project an image warmer than bean counters.
The public relations effort is part of an agency-wide strategy to balance business results with customer and employee satisfaction. The program grew out of Congressional hearings three years ago that disclosed many problems, including poor service, inadequate technology and overly aggressive enforcement tactics.
Open since 1972, the facility operates round the clock, seven days a week, but the public's only contact is by mail or telephone. One of 10 processing centers nationwide, it handles federal returns from individuals and businesses in New York City, in Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and Rockland counties, and in New Jersey.
In all 1999, 7.9 million individual and 4.3 million business returns moved through the pipeline here, of the 228.1 million paper and electronic returns filed nationwide.
The first big rush -- mainly from refund-seekers -- comes in early February, and then the flow recedes. New York area residents are notoriously last-minute filers, with 50 percent of the returns -- usually with payments due -- swamping Brookhaven in April. If history repeats itself, 1.8 million returns will deluge the center the week before the deadline.
The center here handles paper returns only. Electronic returns from the New York-New Jersey area are processed in Andover, Mass. As of April 7, such e-filings had risen 19.2 percent, to 1.46 million, from the corresponding period last year, and paper returns were down 12.6 percent, to 3.75 million.
Despite fewer paper filings, the center has maintained the staff levels of last year because of procedural changes that require additional keystrokes, according to James Gaither, director of the submission-processing division.
Carol M. Landy, the director of the customer-service division, added: "If the trend continues, it may have an impact."
The Brookhaven center is also one of 25 sites nationwide that answer I.R.S. toll-free hotlines. Six hundred customer-service representatives, including six who speak Spanish, take inquiries about accounts and refunds; technical questions go to other sites. After 11 p.m., calls are routed farther west.
Last year the center answered 1.2 million calls, fielding 13,527 inquiries on April 15 alone. As the deadline nears, average "on hold" time swells from four or five minutes to 12 minutes.
If anything, several operators said, their stress level builds after April 17, when calls are related to late payments and penalties and tend to be more complicated -- and when they have to deal with occasional suicide threats from taxpayers despondent about the money they owe.
To prepare for the rush, the agency relies on seasonal workers with minimal qualifications, paying $8.38 to $10.33 an hour. Although the I.R.S. was still seeking tax clerks in late March, 200 temporary tax clerks started work last Monday to fill the last open positions. Because of labor shortages last year, they said, the center offered four-hour shifts and flexible hours as incentives.
Mr. Gaither said there has been a "significant improvement in the caliber of people we're getting this year, many of them middle-aged and older."
Inside the complex, a visitor sees a giant labyrinth, but the processing is an exact science.
The Postal Service delivers sacks of mail daily, peaking at 10 deliveries a day just before deadline. The envelopes and the returns inside weave through manual and automated areas divided by function. Processing a return takes 10 days from start to finish, on par with the national average, according to Ken Hubenak, an I.R.S. spokesman in Washington.
Despite the electronics, paperwork is everywhere. Hundreds of rolling beige carts stocked with returns line various floor areas and even hallways, awaiting steps in the assembly line.
Security is tight. A visitor, for example, can view the data-transcription section where, during peak season, 794 casually dressed employees are packed in gray desk upon gray desk, row upon row. But the visitor dare not approach an individual desk, risking a glimpse of even one number being entered into the computer.
The workers are not bonded, but according to federal government regulations, they will lose their jobs if they breach the confidentiality of any taxpayer information.
In the first step after returns arrive, they are sorted by two conveyor belts and manually into 25 categories.
Returns with payments filter into the "remittance processing room," a restricted area where operators enter taxpayer information and payments, and a computerized system checks accuracy, credits taxpayers' accounts and endorses checks, which are deposited nightly in the Bank of New York and credited to the United States Treasury. Last year, $41.3 billion was collected here.
One vital checkpoint is the "code and edit" room, where mostly seasonal tax clerks and examiners scan returns for omissions or errors and code them accordingly.
From there, processors enter data from batches of returns into new computers installed last year. The computers fix some errors, like mistakes in arithmetic. Five percent of all returns checked here are returned to taxpayers because of errors like missing signatures and incorrect Social Security numbers.
At the end of the processing road here, information from correct returns is transmitted electronically each night to the Martinsburg, W.Va., computing center. The Treasury issues refunds within three to four weeks for returns processed before April 1, or five to six weeks for later filers.
So far, Mr. Gaither said, "we're all looking at one of the better processing years." Employee mistakes are down 3 percent, although the error rate has never exceeded 1 or 2 percent, he said, attributing the improvement in part to the return of more experienced seasonal workers.
In addition, Ms. Landy said, the replacement of the quarter-century-old computers phased out last year "is uplifting for employees."
"If you work in shabby surroundings, you do shabby work," she said.
The new system should cut processing time by 10 percent, officials said.
Patricia Donahue, vice president of Chapter 99 of the National Treasury Employees Union at Brookhaven, while noting that employee morale "went down the tubes with the Senate hearings" three years ago, said employee-employer communication has increased and more training has been given. Employee stress -- "one of the biggest problems here" -- is being addressed with stress-relief classes and focus groups, she said, though she urged still more training.
As for the "customers," the center last year received 632 compliments and 119 complaints about employees' behavior, almost double the 1998 figures of 335 and 61. No comparable national figures were available.
Customer-service representatives say taxpayers do not seem as irate as they were after the Senate hearings. "This year it's calmed down, and we've made more of an effort to be sympathetic to taxpayers' needs," said Stan Showell, who handles 60 to 80 calls a day during refund season.
Ms. Landy said that the strong economy and fewer changes in tax law contributed to the mood swing. But, she added, "there will always be negative publicity; it's a fact of life."
Jim Montes, the Brooklyn district chairman of the Citizen Advisory Panel, a volunteer group overseeing I.R.S. activity, said the public has noticed "a pretty remarkable change in the attitude of employees and their willingness to help."
But that raises another concern. "It's been reported in the papers that now I.R.S. employees feel they should be more lenient," he said. "So that's something we're looking at, to make sure the scales do not tip so far to the side that tax collection is being compromised."
The Brookhaven center expects to conduct 79,557 audits by mail this year, 4,000 more than in 1999 but below the 190,486 in 1998, when three years of returns were audited. These typically involve suspicions of refund fraud, inappropriate filing status or improper claims for dependents. The Brooklyn district office handles face-to-face audits.
Taxpayers can seek help for unresolved complaints at the taxpayer advocate's office, also at Brookhaven, which was set up as an independent office under the I.R.S. Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998.
Last year the office handled 17,000 cases, 3,000 fewer than in 1998. Most involved refund inquiries.
"There are a lot of times that taxpayers don't understand the process," said a local taxpayer advocate, Patricia Berliner. "This is a very scary agency. They need people to speak on their behalf."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a building the size of five football fields, 5,200 I.R.S. employees will process 1.8 million tax returns in the last week before Monday's deadline. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. 21)
 
Drawing (Illustration by Tom Bloom)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; BROOKHAVEN INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE CENTER INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; BROOKHAVEN INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE CENTER INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLTSVILLE (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, CAROL THERESA COLANGELO (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



399 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 13; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Bargain Basement for the Internet

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
ON the morning of Sept. 18, 1999, Arthur Frischman was the president of a successful company in Elmsford. By that evening, he was out of business.
"Hurricane Floyd came through and wiped us out," he said. "The Saw Mill River rose more than three feet, flooding half our warehouse. The water destroyed 40,000 pieces of software waiting to be shipped. It was valued at $250,000, and we had no flood insurance." 
 Mr. Frischman, 35, was forced to lay off all his employees, and he has been unable to pay his suppliers.
But six months later, Mr. Frischman has a new company in Elmsford. And he is already turning a profit. His idea: creating a bargain basement for the Internet.
His original company, the Arch Publication Group, sold educational software and entertainment products to consumers and schools. The new company, 999central, sells software, videos and other products priced at $9.99 or less.
"I did some research and found plenty of Web retailers selling discount items, but none in the odd lot category," he said. "So I leased space in a small building owned by my original landlord and started stocking the shelves with software inventory, mainly movies, DVD's, music, toys and books."
Mr. Frischman has held several different jobs during his career, but he has long been fascinated by computers and the potential of the Internet. His computer experience dates back to his undergraduate years at the University of Maryland in College Park.
"My brother-in-law gave me an old computer I took to college. In the 80's, not many people had them," he recalled. "I majored in economics, but I was always on the computer."
His first job after graduation, as a broker for PaineWebber in Manhattan, was not a success. "I wasn't a very good salesman, and after 18 months I was laid off," he said.
He fared better at Thomas Cook Travel, where he worked as a financial analyst, eventually managing corporate travel for companies like A.I.G. and Philips Electronics.
"Philips was a major developer of the CD technology I kept seeing at their Manhattan headquarters," he said. "I thought, 'This is something good.' " Good enough to inspire his first start-up software development company in 1995.
"My cousin Andrew Schulkind, who became my partner, had a big apartment. We used one of the rooms as an office, and we put in $75,000 apiece coming from savings and family loans to buy equipment, and we started Arch Interactive. It was a development company, writing educational and entertainment software."
The partners did well enough to expand into an office in little more than a year. But by the end of the second year, they split up.
"I didn't want to continue development work," Mr. Frischman said. "It meant selling besides coming up with products. And there were too many development companies out there competing for distribution."
Instead, he opened a company to distribute existing titles to the K-12 school market. And he quickly acquired Educorp, a much larger company, which was in the same field.
He moved into larger quarters and hired more employees. "The orders were flowing in," he recalled. "Business was growing at a fantastic rate, and I started thinking about other ways to sell directly over the Internet. I needed a concept that would give me an innovative marketing niche."
Eventually, he hit on the idea of a software variety store, with every item priced under $10, he said. "I called it 999. We were just getting started. Jennifer, my wife, was scanning pictures into the database at home. We had about 100 software titles. That's where we were when the flood hit."
And that is when Mr. Frischman said he was forced to build 999 into a company.
"I buy remainders, excess inventory, closeouts and product returns from companies like Wal-Mart, Costco and Sam's Club and from liquidators, distributors and companies going out of business. I pay up front, in cash."
Most items are priced the same at $9.99, even those that may list at $25 to $60 in catalogs or retail stores. Some items are even less. Shipping costs an additional $5, for up to 10 items sent to the same address.
"It was a struggle at first, and it's still a business with a lot of headaches," Mr. Frischman said, but the company is thriving.
"We were in the black by the end of the Christmas season," he said. "And we already have an e-mail database of 11,000."
Meanwhile, as money trickles in from customers of Arch Interactive, he said, he is paying off his suppliers, with an eye toward dissolving that company sometime next year.
To insure customer loyalty for 999central, the company has "eight real live people who take orders and deal with problems over the phone," he said.
The company can be visited at www.999central.com.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur Frischman, the president of 999central.com, a software supplier, in his warehouse in Elmsford. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (52%); PHIA (AMS) (52%); PHG (NYSE) (52%); TCG (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: 999CENTRAL.COM KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (52%); THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: 999CENTRAL.COM UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); HURRICANES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); RETAILERS (68%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: FRISCHMAN, ARTHUR; SINGER, PENNY ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



400 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
If the House Is New, It May Well Be Big and Costly

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
WITH all signs of the state's housing market pointing upward, developers are seizing the moment and building large and expensive homes for move-up buyers.
Demand continues to outpace supply, and sale prices keep rising. And with the economy strong, the stock market still churning out profits and consumer confidence high, buyers "are willing to spend money on homes they want," said David J. Schoner, the vice president of the new homes and land division at the Coldwell Banker residential brokerage company in Parsippany. 
 His company lists 167 subdivisions where a total of some 3,000 homes are under way (or soon to be) in 14 north and central New Jersey counties. Of those projects, about half are homes with prices of $500,000 or more, Mr. Schoner said, adding that the average sales price for a new house in those counties is $550,000, up from $397,000 in 1998.
Prices of existing homes are also increasing. Last year, the average sales price of the 141,900 homes sold in the state was $205,000, compared with $197,300 for the 129,900 homes sold in 1998, according to the New Jersey Association of Realtors, in Edison. During the same period, the number of homes sold at prices of $500,000 or more rose to 4.7 percent of the total, up from 3.9 percent.
Jeffrey Otteau, the president of the Otteau Appraisal Group in East Brunswick, put the increase in production and sales of expensive homes in perspective.
"Real estate markets improve from the bottom up in terms of price," he said, noting that as more first-time buyers enter the market, they create a ripple effect of additional sales up the housing ladder, increasing the demand in the highest price ranges as well as those at the low end and in the middle.
On the production side, Mr. Otteau said, the scarcity and high cost of available building sites is contributing to the run-up in prices. And though the number of expensive homes being built is inching upward, he added, there are still more buyers than there are homes to buy.
There were 32,154 housing permits issued in New Jersey in 1999, compared with 31,345 permits in 1998, according to state figures. But last year's total is far below the 57,000 permits issued in 1986, at the height of the last construction boom.
If all factors remain constant, Mr. Schoner said, "we can look for prices to continue to move up." The increases will stop, he said, only when first-time buyers can no longer afford to enter the market.
Mr. Otteau added that he foresees prices rising through this summer, saying that after that, he expected them to "plateau and then remain flat through the fall and winter." Beyond that, "it is an unknown," he said, adding that "there is at least another year left in this housing cycle."
Historically, he said, in a down market the first housing segment to fall is low-priced homes in secondary locations, and the last is high-priced houses in prime locations.
AND location is what K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank is banking on to draw buyers to the 48 homes it is building on half-acre lots at Fairway Oaks off Paramus Road in Paramus. Prices are expected to start at $685,000, and each house will have 3,500 to 4,400 square feet. The 55-acre site, eight miles from the George Washington Bridge, was part of the adjacent Arcola Country Club in the 1940's. Later, it was privately owned and remained undeveloped.
Paramus is known more for the shopping malls within its borders than for high-end housing. But Ara Hovnanian, the company's president and chief executive, said he proceeded with the Fairway Oaks project because "the market is on fire, and to get new housing this close to Manhattan is unusual and offered us a rare opportunity."
The project represents part of a broadening of market focus by Hovnanian, which is best known as a builder of town houses for first-time buyers.
"We decided to dedicate a segment of our business to the luxury end because with the U.S. standard of living increasing, it makes sense for us to play in this arena," Mr. Hovnanian said.
That does not mean that "we've abandoned selling $100,000 town houses," he said, adding that with a "broad array of product, we can cover our bases." The company also has town houses on the Hudson River that sell for "north of $1 million," he said, "giving us comfort that we will do well in this market."
At Fairway Oaks the company will offer six designs, each with four bedrooms and two-car garages. Some of the homes will have a large butler's pantry off the kitchen, porches or a bonus room over the garage. Buyers can also choose optional features like conservatories. Sales will start next month.
Location was also a factor in the decision by the Wharton Development Corporation of Manhattan to build 19 semicustom homes at the Enclave in Englewood Cliffs, about a mile from the George Washington Bridge. The 4,000-to-4,500-square-foot houses on quarter-acre lots are rising along Marietta Street, not far from Route 9W.
"The beauty of this project," said Peter C. Lewis, Wharton's president, "is that we are creating a new neighborhood, which hasn't been done in this community in 30 years."
He said in the year since sales started, base prices have risen from $850,000 to $950,000 and final prices, once buyers have customized their houses with upgraded moldings and appliances, have reached $1.2 million. So far, 15 houses have been sold to empty-nesters and move-up buyers from the Englewood Cliffs area and from Manhattan, he said.
As for the remaining four houses, Mr. Lewis said he is taking a "build them and they will come" approach and will construct them on speculation.
Another luxury project rising in Bergen County is Round Hill on Alford Drive in Saddle River, with 18 custom homes on a minimum of two acres. Most of the 50-acre wooded site was formerly an estate, with a century-old house and a horse barn that have been razed.
Pinnacle Custom, a division of Pinnacle Communities of Millburn, is Round Hill's developer. Prices begin at $2.3 million, with deed restrictions and architectural controls "to protect buyers' interest and the project's integrity," said Michael Cantor, the director of construction.
The houses must be at least 7,000 square feet but no more than 10,000 square feet. And while buyers work with the company's architect in designing their houses, Pinnacle has the final say on the designs, Mr. Cantor said.
Sales began a year ago, and so far, eight houses have been sold, Mr. Cantor said. For such projects to succeed, he added, "they have to be in the right location, so we limit our choices to unique properties in upscale communities."
IN two months, the company expects to start a nine-home subdivision on a hilly 16-acre tract off Shrewsbury Road in Livingston in Essex County. The site was previously owned by former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who sold it a year and a half ago. Mr. Kean, now the president of Drew University, lives in Far Hills, but his former hilltop house, which has been resold, has provided a name to the development, called Governor Hill at Livingston.
The new development will have architectural controls and restrictions similar to those in Saddle River. Lots will be an acre to one-and-a-half acres, and house prices will begin at $1.3 million, Mr. Cantor said.
In Manalapan in Monmouth County, Toll Brothers Inc. of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., which specializes in houses for move-up buyers, is developing 55 "estate homes," each with four or five bedrooms and at least 4,300 square feet. The houses at Manalapan Hills, which is rising on a 120-acre former farm on Sweetman Lane, will have lots of 1.38 acres to 7 acres.
Sales began in January 1999, and so far 31 homes have been sold. Prices begin at $527,000, an increase of $81,000 since the start of the project, said Douglas Yearley, a vice president at Toll.
About half of the houses Toll has built in New Jersey in the last few years have been these large "estate homes." "It was not a concerted effort, but a response to market demand," Mr. Yearley said. "We continue to be amazed at the depth and breadth of this market."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prices are expected to begin at $685,000 at the Fairway Oaks development in Paramus, left. At Manalapan Hills, below, prices begin at $527,000. (Fred Forbes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (83%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COLDWELL BANKER COLDWELL BANKER RESIDENTIAL BROKERAGE CO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLDWELL BANKER

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE JEFFREY OTTEAU (63%); DAVID J SCHONER (63%); ARA K HOVNANIAN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000

 
