

1 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: A Burden Without Borders

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Like overstretched American homeowners, governments and companies across the globe are groaning under the weight of debts that, some fear, might never be fully paid back. 
 As Dubai, that one-time wonderland in the desert, struggles to pay its bills, a troubling question hangs over the financial world: Is this latest financial crisis an isolated event, or a harbinger of still more debt shocks?
 For the moment, at least, global investors seem to be taking Dubai's sinking fortunes in their stride. On Monday, the American stock market rose modestly, even as share prices plunged throughout the Persian Gulf. 
 But the travails of Dubai, a boomtown that, with its palm-shaped islands and indoor ski slope became a potent symbol of hyperwealth, nonetheless have some economists wondering where other debt bombs might be lurking -- and just how dangerous they might turn out to be. 
 Big banks that have only just begun to recover from the financial shocks of last year are now nervously eyeing their potential exposure to highly indebted corporations and governments. 
 From the Baltics to the Mediterranean, the bills for an unprecedented borrowing binge are starting to fall due. In Russia and the former Soviet bloc, where high oil prices helped feed blistering growth, a mountain of debt must be refinanced as short-term i.o.u.'s come due. 
 Even in rich nations like the United States and Japan, which are increasing government spending to shore up slack economies, mounting budget deficits are raising concern about governments' ability to shoulder their debts, especially once interest rates start to rise again. 
 The numbers are startling. In Germany, long the bastion of fiscal rectitude in Europe, government debt is on the rise. There, the government debt outstanding is expected to increase to the equivalent of 77 percent of the nation's economic output next year, from 60 percent in 2002. In Britain, that figure is expected to more than double over the same period, to more than 80 percent. 
 The burdens are even greater in Ireland and Latvia, where economic booms driven by easy credit and soaring property values have given way to precipitous busts. Public debt in Ireland is expected to soar to 83 percent of gross domestic product next year, from just 25 percent in 2007. Latvia is sinking into debt even faster. Its borrowings will reach the equivalent of nearly half the economy next year, up from 9 percent a mere two years ago. 
 Like Latvia, the Baltic states of Lithuania and Estonia remain worryingly exposed, as do Bulgaria and Hungary. All of these nations carry foreign debt that exceeds 100 percent of their G.D.P.'s, said Ivan Tchakarov, chief economist for Russia and the former Soviet states at Nomura bank. External debt is often held in a foreign currency, which means governments cannot use devaluation of their own currencies as a tool to reduce their debt when they run into trouble, according to Maurice Obstfeld, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
 Few analysts predict a major nation will default on it government debts in the immediate future. Indeed, many maintain that rich nations and the International Monetary Fund would intervene if a government needed a bailout. 
 But there are no assurances that companies in these nations, which, like governments, gorged on debt in good times, will be rescued. Dubai's refusal to guarantee the debts of its investment arm, Dubai World, may set a precedent for other indebted governments to abandon companies that investors had in the past assumed enjoyed full state backing. 
 ''I see very good reasons to be worried that at some point in 2010 we are going to see more cases of ring-fencing because governments realize they can't afford to guarantee the debts of these companies,'' said Pierre Cailleteau, managing director of the global sovereign risk group and chief economist of Moody's.
 Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard economist whose recent book, ''This Time Is Different,'' chronicles 800 years of financial crises, said: ''I think right now every vulnerable country has one or two deep-pocketed backers that pretty much rule out a sudden run.'' But Mr. Rogoff said he expected a wave of defaults about two years from now, when the countries now serving as implicit guarantors turn their focus to economic problems at home. 
 One feature of the financial crisis is that some governments have taken on increasingly short-term debt. In the United States, for example, Treasury debt maturing within one year has risen from around 33 percent of total debt two years ago to around 44 percent this summer, while falling slightly since then, according to Wrightson ICAP. The United States will soon have debt problems of its own. 
 ''In another couple years as industrialized countries' own debts -- in places like Germany, Japan and the United States -- get worse, they will become more reluctant to open up their wallets to spendthrift emerging markets, or at least countries they view that way,'' Mr. Rogoff said. 
 This might spell trouble for struggling nations. Facing a need to roll over their maturing debts, emerging markets may have to borrow around $65 billion in 2010 alone, according to Gary N. Kleiman of Kleiman International.
 But while government debt may be a problem, corporate debt may set off a crisis that, in some ways, is already unfolding.
 Corporate borrowing surged over the last five years. According to Mr. Kleiman, $200 billion of corporate debt is coming due this year or next year. He estimates that companies in Russia and the United Arab Emirates account for about half of that borrowing. 
 ''This is where the Achilles heel is,'' he said.
 Companies in several countries face immediate tests. Companies in China will have to borrow $8.8 billion in 2010; companies in Mexico $11 billion.
 According to an analysis by JPMorgan Chase, Russian companies borrowed $220 billion from banks or by selling bonds from 2006 to 2008. That is the equivalent of 13 percent of Russia's gross domestic product. In the Emirates, that figure was $135.6 billion, or 53 percent of G.D.P.; in Turkey, it was $72 billion, or 10 percent of G.D.P.; and in Kazakhstan, it was $44 billion, or 44 percent of G.D.P.
 In the past, if companies could not meet those obligations, governments might have stepped in. But already some companies have defaulted on payments after assumed government guarantees failed to materialize. 
 In Russia, for instance, the foreign debt totals more than $470 billion. But only a tiny fraction of that -- about $29 billion -- is sovereign debt. The rest is owed by Russian companies, including state giants like Gazprom. 
 The most troubling case in Russia is Rusal, the world's largest aluminum company, which owes $16 billion and has been in a standstill on repayment this year while dealing with creditors.
 A subsidiary of a Russian state aircraft manufacturer defaulted on bonds last autumn despite a presumed sovereign guarantee. In Ukraine, the state energy company, Naftogaz, and a state railroad, have restructured or asked to restructure their debt.
 ''This was a trail that was blazed in this part of the world,'' said Rory MacFarquhar, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Moscow, referring to governments retreating from implied guarantees of state company debt, as in the case of Dubai World.
 The Dubai World debt restructuring is already lifting borrowing costs for Russian companies that must repay a total of $20 billion in December, according to Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist of UralSib bank in Moscow.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MING UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHART: POSSIBLE WEAK LINKS: The debt crisis in Dubai, part of the United Arab Emirates, has turned attention to where other crises may be lurking. The United States is exposed to some countries that have run up large debts. (Source: Bank for International Settlements) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); SKIING (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CURRENCIES (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATVIA (93%); BALTIC STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); GERMANY (68%); BULGARIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



2 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: In Pursuit of Loyalty

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
When Greg McHale checks into his hotel room after a day of business travel, he expects what he calls the ''wonderful and bizarre,'' namely complimentary Snickers bars, Diet Pepsi and, sometimes, a compact disc of his favorite electronic dance music.
 For Kimpton Hotels, it is a small price to pay for the loyalty of someone like Mr. McHale, a Web entrepreneur who spends 50 or 60 nights a year on the road. And for Mr. McHale, the personal touches -- part of the hotel chain's loyalty program -- make it worth his while to seek out Kimpton's hotels. 
 ''The level of personal attention really blows me away,'' said Mr. McHale, founder and chief executive of Good2gether, which connects nonprofit organizations with donors and volunteers. ''So if there's a Kimpton in town, that's where I'll stay.''
 Not all hotels go to such lengths to please their guests, but this year most are stretching their creativity to attract and, perhaps more important, retain guests. Hotels have been particularly hard hit by the drop in business travel, and brand loyalty has often given way to practical cost concerns as companies have cut expenses.
 Only 36 percent of business travelers said they were brand loyal this year, compared with 42 percent two years ago, according to Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst for Forrester Research. ''And 2010 is likely to be more difficult for hotels because companies are telling their employees that every penny saved means fewer people laid off or fewer cuts in pay.''
 Hotels are responding by offering free nights, upgrades and loyalty points. Many hotels, especially the high-end chains, are introducing twists to cultivate customers. Amenities including free breakfasts, no-fee Internet connections, late checkouts and paid parking are being bundled in business traveler packages. Marriott Hotels, for instance, calls its package ''Business Boost,'' while Hyatt Hotels has ''Business Plan'' and Sheraton Hotels ''Road Warrior.''
 As part of its package, Hilton's Conrad Chicago Hotel is giving guests their choice among best-selling books, and a personal shopper is available to help select gifts for those left at home.
 Beyond packages, some hotels are trying to make stays more enticing by reducing fees for the minibar, subsidizing some meals, offering free in-room spa services or free dry cleaning. The hotel industry is trying to keep room rates stable, which is not easy. The average occupancy rate in October was down 6.2 percentage points to 58.1 percent, and per-room revenue dropped 13.8 percent to $57.57 from the year before -- the worst numbers in more than two decades, according to Smith Travel Research, in Hendersonville, Tenn.
 To try to hold the line on rates, hotels are offering guests more for their money. 
 ''It's about offering added value rather than lowering rates,'' said Sam Shank, chief executive of DealBase.com, an online search engine for hotels. ''When travel fell after 9/11, hotels dropped their rates and it took a while for them to bring those prices up again. They don't want to go through that again.'' 
 Many corporations have room rate arrangements with hotel chains, but their employees typically claim the loyalty points for personal use, especially for long weekends or upgrading to concierge floors, where they can have a nicer breakfast, access to snacks and, in the evening, a glass of wine with hors d'oeuvres. 
 Loyalty points are a major selling feature for many travelers, said Don Berg, vice president for loyalty for Intercontinental Hotels Group, the world's largest hotel operator whose brands include Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn. The group has four million club members.
 About 90 percent of the points are redeemed for personal use, he said. The hotel group, taking a page from the American Express and Visa rewards programs, also offers members special access to concerts and sporting events. Starwood Hotels has a similar program.
 ''People have guilt over being away from home and family, and this is guilt-free currency to make up for that,'' Mr. Berg said. ''No expiration on our loyalty points is, by far, our most popular feature.''
 William R. Snider, a Houston software consultant, was able to use his loyalty points from Holiday Inns to indulge his love of baseball. He used his points to bid on, and win, World Series and All-Star game packages that provided accommodation, meals and transportation and also allowed him to mingle with players.
 ''I had a blast,'' he said.These awards make me want to stay at Holiday Inns, if at all possible.''
 Among the most inventive in catering to customers are the high-end properties. Four Seasons Los Angeles at Beverly Hills, for example, will store a guest's suitcase between visits, the hotel's general manager, Mehdi Eftekari, said. ''So if you are traveling between Los Angeles and New York or London, you always come back to freshly washed and ironed clothes packed away in your suitcase.''
 An array of exercise gear, including socks and shoes, is available to guests so they do not have to worry about smelly clothing, he said. 
 Kimpton offers specially prepared dinners for its most frequent guests, including one recently in Manhattan for top-tier female travelers. The chain has also introduced weekend trips like the one in October for its most frequent travelers and their spouses, in Oregon's wine country. The wine-tasting getaway came with meals made by Kimpton chefs, and a balloon ride over the vineyards. 
 Paul Seus, a management consultant from Chicago who attended the Oregon weekend with his wife, Amy, said Kimpton's special treatment cemented his loyalty. 
 ''Kimpton called me and asked me if I would like to do something special,'' Mr. Seus said. 
 ''I've traveled my whole career, and I used to stay, well, wherever,'' he said. ''Now I'll only stay somewhere else if I can't find one of their hotels.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Itineraries page on Tuesday about hotels' efforts to build brand loyalty among their customers misstated the size of the club membership of the Intercontinental Hotels Group, whose brands include Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn. It has 47 million members -- not four million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of a loyalty program run by Kimpton were invited to tour vineyards in Dayton, Ore., in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR TISCARENO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); LODGING (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BRAND EQUITY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); BRANDING (66%); MUSIC (57%); EXECUTIVES (54%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (84%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (84%); MAR (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



3 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Some Gains Were Found For Business In November

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Manufacturing and business activity in parts of the United States improved in November, data showed on Monday, keeping the economy on track for recovery, though continued weakness in the labor market will constrain growth, economists said. 
 Business activity in the Midwest and in New York City expanded more than anticipated in November, according to regional reports from the Institute for Supply Management.
 ''This is good news, and another statistic that supports the scenario that we're clawing our way out of the abyss. This is clearly reflective of an economy, at least on the manufacturing side, that is starting to heal,'' said Ned Riley, chief executive of Riley Asset Management in Boston.
 ''There's optimism here that this will improve the outlook for manufacturers. The only question is, manufacturers can make the goods, but will consumers buy them?'' he added.
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago business barometer grew faster than anticipated in November, rising to 56.1, above the 50 mark that denotes expansion.
 The Chicago report showed employment still in the doldrums, said Scott J. Brown, chief economist with Raymond James and Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. ''Consumer finances are still strained and the labor market is weak.''
 The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago said on Monday its Midwest manufacturing index, which covers five Midwestern states, rose in October to the highest level since February but was sharply down compared with a year ago amid weak economic conditions.
 The index rose to a seasonally adjusted 82.9 from an upwardly revised 82.5 in September. Compared with a year earlier, Midwest output fell 13.6 percent, much steeper than the 7.5 percent national decline.
 In New York City, business activity expanded in November for the fourth consecutive month, and a gauge of business optimism rose to its highest point in more than three years.
 The Institute for Supply Management-New York's seasonally adjusted index of current business conditions rose to 62.9 in November from 60.8 in October. The 50 level separates growth from contraction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (83%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



4 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Study Says College Basketball Referees Try to Keep Foul Calls Even

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

 BODY:
Two professors familiar with college basketball had a hunch that referees tended to try to keep the total fouls called against each team somewhat even. After examining 365 Division I games in the 2004-5 season, they had data to support their suspicion.
 The independent study by Kyle J. Anderson and David A. Pierce concluded that N.C.A.A. men's basketball officials tended to level the disparity between the teams' foul totals, make more calls against teams with leads and were more likely to make calls in favor of home teams. 
 Anderson, a visiting assistant professor of business economics at Indiana's Kelley School of Business, said he noticed such tendencies among officials when he played center at Division III Knox College in Illinois. Pierce, an assistant professor of sport administration at Ball State, has dabbled in basketball officiating. 
 The study included games in the Atlantic Coast, Big Ten and Big East Conferences, their interconference games, conference championships and the 2005 N.C.A.A. tournament. 
 It found that referees called fouls on visiting teams at a probability of 7 percent higher than on home teams; that there was a 69 percent chance the visitors would be whistled for the next foul if the home team had five or more fouls than the visiting team; and that when the home team led, its chances of being whistled for the next foul were about 6.3 percent higher than when it trailed. 
 ''We were kind of expecting to find what we found, but the effects were a lot bigger than we expected them to be,'' Anderson said. 
 John W. Adams, the N.C.A.A.'s coordinator of men's basketball officiating, said he welcomed any study concerning college officiating, but questioned the significance of the study's data pool: 365 games from a total of 5,550 games a season. 
 ''Basketball officiating is a passionate point of every game, or so it seems to me,'' Adams said. ''If there is a study out there that is relevant, I'm interesting in talking to them.''
 Adams, who officiated Division I basketball games in the 1980s, added: ''Every referee notices the fouls, the balance of fouls. If you don't, the coach who has eight fouls is reminding you that he has eight and the other guy has one. I think there's a game-within-a-game philosophy that if a team is down by 25 points and if you have six or so minutes to go, you may not call as many fouls on a team that is down by 30 than a team that's up by 30.''
 The study concluded by connecting the increasing popularity of more aggressive play to the referees' tendencies. Teams that drew more fouls early tended to draw fewer as the game wore on.
 As the gap between foul calls increased between teams, so did the likelihood that the next call would be made against the team with the fewer fouls. 
 ''We don't think they intentionally reward aggressive teams, but that's what happens when you try to make the fouls even out,'' Anderson said. ''If it's going to even out and you're a coach or a player and if it tends to even out, then you may as well go in and play hard defense and think, 'If they call fouls on us, it doesn't matter because it's all going to even out.' ''
 Anderson and Pierce delivered the first draft of the study at the end of 2005. It was published by The Journal of Sports Sciences in last May. The study also sampled 93 games on neutral courts to remove the aspect of home-court advantage. 
 The study began by citing a 2005 Final Four game between Illinois and Louisville. The game's first seven foul calls went against Illinois. Louisville received five of the next six fouls, and by the end of the game, the Cardinals had totaled one more foul than Illinois. 
 Anderson said reaction to the study had been mixed. 
 ''From the officials' point of view, we've had some officials tell us we're wrong and crazy and making it up, and other officials say I think that does happen and we really do that,'' he said. ''It's been funny from a reader reaction. People have said that it's so obvious that I'm surprised you spent the time to do it, and others say it never happens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); BASKETBALL (92%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



5 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: In Job Hunt, Even a College Degree Can't Close the Racial Gap

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Johnny R. Williams, 30, would appear to be an unlikely person to have to fret about the impact of race on his job search, with companies like JPMorgan Chase and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago on his resume.
 But after graduating from business school last year and not having much success garnering interviews, he decided to retool his resume, scrubbing it of any details that might tip off his skin color. His membership, for instance, in the African-American business students association? Deleted.
 ''If they're going to X me,'' Mr. Williams said, ''I'd like to at least get in the door first.''
 Similarly, Barry Jabbar Sykes, 37, who has a degree in mathematics from Morehouse College, a historically black college in Atlanta, now uses Barry J. Sykes in his continuing search for an information technology position, even though he has gone by Jabbar his whole life. 
 ''Barry sounds like I could be from Ireland,'' he said. 
 That race remains a serious obstacle in the job market for African-Americans, even those with degrees from respected colleges, may seem to some people a jarring contrast to decades of progress by blacks, culminating in President Obama's election.
 But there is ample evidence that racial inequities remain when it comes to employment. Black joblessness has long far outstripped that of whites. And strikingly, the disparity for the first 10 months of this year, as the recession has dragged on, has been even more pronounced for those with college degrees, compared with those without. Education, it seems, does not level the playing field -- in fact, it appears to have made it more uneven.
 College-educated black men, especially, have struggled relative to their white counterparts in this downturn, according to figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The unemployment rate for black male college graduates 25 and older in 2009 has been nearly twice that of white male college graduates -- 8.4 percent compared with 4.4 percent.
 Various academic studies have confirmed that black job seekers have a harder time than whites. A study published several years ago in The American Economic Review titled ''Are Emily and Greg More Employable than Lakisha and Jamal?'' found that applicants with black-sounding names received 50 percent fewer callbacks than those with white-sounding names.
 A more recent study, published this year in The Journal of Labor Economics found white, Asian and Hispanic managers tended to hire more whites and fewer blacks than black managers did. 
 The discrimination is rarely overt, according to interviews with more than two dozen college-educated black job seekers around the country, many of them out of work for months. Instead, those interviewed told subtler stories, referring to surprised looks and offhand comments, interviews that fell apart almost as soon as they began, and the sudden loss of interest from companies after meetings. 
 Whether or not each case actually involved bias, the possibility has furnished an additional agonizing layer of second-guessing for many as their job searches have dragged on. 
 ''It does weigh on you in the search because you're wondering, how much is race playing a factor in whether I'm even getting a first call, or whether I'm even getting an in-person interview once they hear my voice and they know I'm probably African-American?'' said Terelle Hairston, 25, a graduate of Yale University who has been looking for work since the summer while also trying to get a marketing consulting start-up off the ground. ''You even worry that the hiring manager may not be as interested in diversity as the H.R. manager or upper management.''
 Mr. Williams recently applied to a Dallas money management firm that had posted a position with top business schools. The hiring manager had seemed ecstatic to hear from him, telling him they had trouble getting people from prestigious business schools to move to the area. Mr. Williams had left New York and moved back in with his parents in Dallas to save money.
 But when Mr. Williams later met two men from the firm for lunch, he said they appeared stunned when he strolled up to introduce himself.
 ''Their eyes kind of hit the ceiling a bit,'' he said. ''It was kind of quiet for about 45 seconds.'' 
 The company's interest in him quickly cooled, setting off the inevitable questions in his mind.
 Discrimination in many cases may not even be intentional, some job seekers pointed out, but simply a matter of people gravitating toward similar people, casting about for the right ''cultural fit,'' a buzzword often heard in corporate circles.
 There is also the matter of how many jobs, especially higher-level ones, are never even posted and depend on word-of-mouth and informal networks, in many cases leaving blacks at a disadvantage. A recent study published in the academic journal Social Problems found that white males receive substantially more job leads for high-level supervisory positions than women and members of minorities. 
 Many interviewed, however, wrestled with ''pulling the race card,'' groping between their cynicism and desire to avoid the stigma that blacks are too quick to claim victimhood. After all, many had gone to good schools and had accomplished resumes. Some had grown up in well-to-do settings, with parents who had raised them never to doubt how high they could climb. Moreover, there is President Obama, perhaps the ultimate embodiment of that belief.
 Certainly, they conceded, there are times when their race can be beneficial, particularly with companies that have diversity programs. But many said they sensed that such opportunities had been cut back over the years and even more during the downturn. Others speculated there was now more of a tendency to deem diversity unnecessary after Mr. Obama's triumph.
 In fact, whether Mr. Obama's election has been good or bad for their job prospects is hotly debated. Several interviewed went so far as to say that they believed there was only so much progress that many in the country could take, and that there was now a backlash against blacks. 
 ''There is resentment toward his presidency among some because of his race,'' said Edward Verner, a Morehouse alumnus from New Jersey who was laid off as a regional sales manager and has been able to find only part-time work. ''This has affected well-educated, African-American job seekers.'' 
 It is difficult to overstate the degree that they say race permeates nearly every aspect of their job searches, from how early they show up to interviews to the kinds of anecdotes they try to come up with.
 ''You want to be a nonthreatening, professional black guy,'' said Winston Bell, 40, of Cleveland, who has been looking for a job in business development.
 He drew an analogy to several prominent black sports broadcasters. ''You don't want to be Stephen A. Smith. You want to be Bryant Gumbel. You don't even want to be Stuart Scott. You don't want to be, 'Booyah.' ''
 Nearly all said they agonized over job applications that asked them whether they would like to identify their race. Most said they usually did not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Johnny Williams has scrubbed his resume of any details that might tip off his skin color. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Barry Jabbar Sykes goes by Barry J. Sykes in his job hunt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARENA CAWTHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) CHART: RACIAL DIFFERENCES IN JOBLESSNESS: The unemployment rate for black men with college degrees was nearly double that of their white counterparts in 2009. The gap has been slightly less among female college graduates. But for both genders, the disparity between blacks and whites has been more pronounced among the college educated, a shift from the past. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MEN (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



6 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Buys a Manufacturer in South Korea

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill. 

 BODY:
Caterpillar said Monday it plans to buy a subsidiary of a South Korean manufacturer of components for earthmoving and other machinery. 
 The company said it would acquire JCS Company Ltd., a subsidiary of the Jinsung T.E.C. Company. Terms were not disclosed.
 The acquisition builds on a relationship between Caterpillar, based in Peoria, and Jinsung T.E.C., which supplies Caterpillar with equipment for its machines.
 The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to be completed early next year.
 Jinsung T.E.C. specializes in the design and manufacture of heavy equipment spare parts, including track rollers, seal groups and front idlers for excavators and bulldozers.
 The transaction will give Caterpillar its first factory in South Korea. Caterpillar already has plants in China, India, Indonesia and Australia.
 Caterpillar has made significant investments in the Asia Pacific region to support a growing base of customers, said David Bozeman, Caterpillar vice president with responsibility for undercarriage production.
 ''This strategic acquisition will improve Caterpillar's supply chain and component capacity in support of Caterpillar's long-term machine capacity expansion plans in Asia,'' he said.
 Rich Lavin, Caterpillar group president with responsibility for Asia Pacific, said South Korea is an increasingly important market for Caterpillar products and as a potential site for manufacturing in the region.
 This year, Caterpillar has laid off more than 22,000 workers as it scaled back production because of the recession.
 Caterpillar has said it is counting on Asian customers to buy more of its mining and construction equipment next year to help the company move beyond the recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); APPROVALS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: JINSUNG TEC CO LTD (93%); CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

TICKER: 036890 (KSE) (93%); CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



7 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Present-Day Soapbox for Voices Of the Past (With a Web Site)

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Lewis H. Lapham leans forward behind his wide wooden desk and within minutes of speaking has mentioned Mark Twain, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Goethe, Cicero, John Locke, Hamilton, Adams and Madison. A laptop on a side table is piled high with papers. 
 As the media metabolism becomes endlessly speeded up, Mr. Lapham has slowed down. Two years ago he moved from a monthly, Harper's magazine, to publishing four times a year with Lapham's Quarterly, a scholarly journal that he has tried to give more mass-market appeal. The target audience, he said, is ''people who wished they had paid more attention in school.'' 
 It has a Web site, laphamsquarterly.org, but up-to-the-minute is not the mantra: recently the home page featured an audio interview with Gordon S. Wood, the Brown University historian of early America, that was recorded more than a year ago during the presidential campaign.
 ''The idea was to bring the voices of the past up to the microphone of the present,'' said Mr. Lapham, describing the quarterly's mission, before quickly paraphrasing Twain: ''History doesn't repeat itself, but it rhymes.'' (He sashayed straight to Schlesinger's ''notion of history as an antidote to folly.'') 
 Mr. Lapham, 74, left Harper's in 2006, after serving as editor since 1983, following an earlier five-year stint. Last year he started his nonprofit quarterly as a selection of historical writings with a single topic for each issue. War was the first topic, and others have been money, nature and crime.
 The current issue is about medicine, and includes selections from Hippocrates, Plato, Rudyard Kipling, Virginia Woolf and Fyodor Dostoyevsky, all noteworthy for being -- among other things -- dead and therefore cheap. It is fronted by a long essay by Mr. Lapham that begins with a quotation from Montaigne and near the end quotes Socrates.
 ''The market for it isn't as big as it is for the gossip, for celebrity, for the 24-hour fast word,'' Mr. Lapham said.
 The quarterly, whose office is in space rented in New York from The Nation, the liberal magazine, has gained a respectable following with a circulation of 25,000 -- 16,000 paid subscriptions and 9,000 sold in bookstores. It is an attempt at a business model that mixes circulation revenue and charitable donations, a tall order in a media environment and economy that have been hostile to starting new print publications.
 Its budget for the most recent and first fiscal year was $1.9 million, 62 percent of which was covered by circulation and 38 percent through donations. Long term, Mr. Lapham would like to reduce the portion of the budget dependent on donations to 15 percent to 20 percent.
 A blue-blood aristocrat, Mr. Lapham is the great-grandson of the founder of Texaco and a product of the Hotchkiss School and Yale. He smokes incessantly, likes a drink and has seemed to maintain a literary and journalistic existence etched from a sepia-toned New York of late nights at Elaine's (they still happen, but less often) and writerly camaraderie.
 ''He's the bedrock of classic academic purity and discipline,'' said Terry McDonell, the editor of Sports Illustrated, a longtime friend and a sometime companion at Elaine's. ''His facility with the English language is a wonderful thing.''
 Politically, the Obama era is an odd time for Mr. Lapham, who in one of his last columns before leaving the editorship of Harper's called for President George W. Bush's impeachment. The disconnect between his upbringing and his affinity for the country club life, and his words and purported values -- on paper he has been a stalwart liberal and defender of meritocracy -- are perplexing to some.
 In many ways Mr. Lapham's views are a remnant of a period of radicalization of the American ruling class that began in the 1960s, reflecting a politics that blends a certain populism with aristocratic values. William F. Buckley Jr., who founded the conservative magazine National Review, was the embodiment of this on the right. 
 ''I think the mix of high culture and populism and redistributionist politics doesn't fit with liberalism,'' said Jacob Weisberg, chairman of the Slate Group and author of ''The Bush Tragedy.'' ''It falls to the left and the right of liberalism.''
 He added, ''I suspect Lewis would be the first to agree that it is outside the prevailing political consensus.'' 
 Both Mr. Lapham's journal and his manner suggest he is happy where he is. Over a dinner of steak and mashed potatoes and a glass of wine at Union Square Cafe, Mr. Lapham related the story of when, fresh from Yale, he applied for a job at the C.I.A., then a bastion of Ivy League elitism.
 The first question he was asked in the interview was, ''When standing on the 13th tee at the National Golf Links in Southampton, which club does one take from the bag?''
 ''They wanted to make sure you were the right sort,'' Mr. Lapham recalled. He found the question off-putting and dropped his spy ambitions for journalistic ones (although he points out that he knew the right answer -- a 7-iron). 
 Many years later, Mr. Lapham's connections have come in handy, helping to generate donations for his current project. School ties run deep, and one donor is George LaBalme, who is older than Mr. Lapham and was several years ahead of him at Hotchkiss. ''It's a long relationship,'' said Mr. LaBalme, a trustee of the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, a patron of the arts. ''I thought it was a nifty idea, but I wasn't at all sure it would work.''
 Another donor is Leonard Riggio, chairman of Barnes & Noble, and the publication is placed prominently in his bookstores, near the current-events magazines rather than tucked away with the scholarly journals.
 Others happened upon the quarterly and decided to support it. Thomas Siebel, a billionaire entrepreneur who runs the Siebel Foundation in San Francisco, which supports education-related causes among others, was a fan of Mr. Lapham's column at Harper's and came across the quarterly at a New York bookstore.
 ''It was an amazing perspective on the concept of war going back to the beginning of time,'' Mr. Siebel said. ''It was just riveting, and I wondered, 'How can we contribute?' ''
 To date he has donated close to a half-million dollars to the publication, including buying 5,000 subscriptions for libraries and history teachers.
 If the subjects of the quarterly are sometimes gleefully disconnected from the modern media age, Mr. Lapham is not. He said he planned to start a blog. 
 ''I'm looking forward to that,'' he said. ''It's a new form.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lewis H. Lapham in the office of Lapham's Quarterly, which is in space rented from The Nation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 PHOTO(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (86%); HISTORY (76%); CHARITIES (75%); WEB SITES (74%); LIBERAL MEDIA (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



8 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Ohio: Arrest In Theft of Charity Kettle

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A man who claimed to hate Christmas shoved a Salvation Army bell ringer to the ground and stole one of the charity's red kettles stuffed with hundreds of dollars, the police said. The bell ringer, an unemployed woman, tried to pull the kettle away from the man on Saturday in Maumee, but he pushed her down and said, ''I can't stand you and your bell-ringing. I hate Christmas,'' the police said. The bell ringer chased him into a store parking lot before he tossed the kettle into the back of a stolen pickup truck and sped away, the police said. An empty kettle was found a day later. The police arrested Shawn Krieger of Toledo and charged him with robbery. The money has not been recovered, the police said. The Salvation Army estimated that the kettle held $500 to $700. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



9 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Fate of Ousted Leader Clouds Election Result in Honduras

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 

 BODY:
Flush from his victory in the Honduran presidential election, Porfirio Lobo sat down for a congratulatory television interview on Monday morning. When asked if he planned to talk to Manuel Zelaya, the president ousted in a coup in June, Mr. Lobo made a gesture as though washing his hands. 
 ''Let Congress decide,'' he said, referring to a vote scheduled for Wednesday over whether to reinstate Mr. Zelaya to serve the last weeks of his term. 
But Mr. Lobo, a veteran conservative politician, will not be able to wave away the coup and the political standoff that followed so breezily. 
 For a start, although preliminary results show that Mr. Lobo won the election on Sunday with a margin of 16 percentage points, many countries have said they would not recognize an election held by a de facto government that was installed by a coup. 
 On Monday, there was very limited recognition. Panama and Colombia were the first to congratulate Mr. Lobo, and President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica said his government would recognize the outcome if there was no evidence of fraud, Reuters reported. 
 The United States issued a qualified response. 
 ''The issue is not who is going to be the next president,'' Arturo Valenzuela, the new assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, told reporters in Washington. ''The Honduran people decided that. The issue is whether the legitimate president of Honduras, who was overthrown in a coup d'etat, will be returned to office.'' 
 Brazil and most other South American countries had already rejected the vote, while European countries, which are important aid donors, acknowledged the vote but said that Hondurans had to find some form of reconciliation.
 The United States continued to place its hopes for a resolution to the Honduran political crisis in an accord that it brokered a month ago and that both Mr. Zelaya and Roberto Micheletti, who leads the de facto government, signed. 
 The deal called for Congress to vote on whether to reinstate Mr. Zelaya, as well as the formation of a national unity government and a truth commission to investigate the events that led up to the coup and its aftermath. 
 But none of the accord's elements has yet been achieved. Congress delayed its vote, and then Mr. Zelaya renounced the agreement and remains a virtual prisoner in the Brazilian Embassy in Tegucigalpa, the capital. 
 On Monday, he said in a telephone interview that he would not return to office if Congress voted to restore him merely to serve as a figurehead. ''The elections only changed the president, but it did not change any of the structure that carried out the coup,'' he said. 
 Mr. Lobo has said that because he did not sign the accord, it is not up to him to fulfill it. But if he is to win recognition from other countries -- and bring back the aid money that has been suspended -- then he will probably have no choice but to go along with some version of the agreement. 
 Even before the political crisis halted investment and paralyzed an economy that was already buffeted by the global economic crisis, Honduras faced a dire situation. 
 Remittances from Hondurans working in the United States account for almost a quarter of gross domestic product, and they have dropped 12 percent this year. The Honduran economy could shrink as much as 4.5 percent this year, said Mauricio Diaz Burdett, an economist at the Fosdeh research institution here.
 Mr. Lobo had been vague as a candidate about what he would do first if elected, calling for a grand national dialogue before he would take office on Jan. 27. His family raises corn, soy and sorghum on one of the country's largest farms. In a long political career, he introduced the idea of a mobile Congress, taking congressional leaders out to the countryside to hear complaints.
 He has promised to work hard to win back the international recognition that was withheld after the coup. But the coup has revealed a number of fault lines in Honduras that were papered over in a country where a small elite controls the economy and politics.
 ''The new president will have a very significant challenge in dealing with demands from the population for a more inclusive system,'' said Jennifer McCoy, the director of the Americas Program at the Carter Center in Atlanta. ''I think these demands were larger than Zelaya.''
 A sense of that frustration was clear when Mr. Zelaya's supporters gathered at a union meeting hall on Monday. ''We're motivated,'' said Juan Barahona, a leader of the resistance, as Mr. Zelaya's supporters now call themselves. ''We won't abandon the fight because in four years or sooner, there will be a new dawn.''
 The opposition has been the target of human rights violations since the coup, with a kind of low-intensity repression of constant harrassment, arrests and beatings, particularly in the countryside, human rights experts say.
 Jose Miguel Vivanco of Human Rights Watch said that the de facto government had committed ''widespread arbitrary detentions, killings and censorship'' against Mr. Zelaya's supporters and that the election would not wipe the slate clean. 
 On Friday night, for example, police and soldiers raided the offices of a farming organization in Siguatepeque, in the central region of Comayagua, saying they were looking for guns. After a three-hour search, they left with the organization's computers, cameras and documents. 
 ''Impunity has been the hallmark of the regime,'' said Javier Zuniga of Amnesty International, who is a longtime human rights expert in Central America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%)

PERSON: PORFIRIO LOBO (91%); MANUEL ZELAYA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



10 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: A Lost European Culture, Pulled From Obscurity

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Before the glory that was Greece and Rome, even before the first cities of Mesopotamia or temples along the Nile, there lived in the Lower Danube Valley and the Balkan foothills people who were ahead of their time in art, technology and long-distance trade.
 For 1,500 years, starting earlier than 5000 B.C., they farmed and built sizable towns, a few with as many as 2,000 dwellings. They mastered large-scale copper smelting, the new technology of the age. Their graves held an impressive array of exquisite headdresses and necklaces and, in one cemetery, the earliest major assemblage of gold artifacts to be found anywhere in the world.
 The striking designs of their pottery speak of the refinement of the culture's visual language. Until recent discoveries, the most intriguing artifacts were the ubiquitous terracotta ''goddess'' figurines, originally interpreted as evidence of the spiritual and political power of women in society.
 New research, archaeologists and historians say, has broadened understanding of this long overlooked culture, which seemed to have approached the threshold of ''civilization'' status. Writing had yet to be invented, and so no one knows what the people called themselves. To some scholars, the people and the region are simply Old Europe. 
 The little-known culture is being rescued from obscurity in an exhibition, ''The Lost World of Old Europe: the Danube Valley, 5000-3500 B.C.,'' which opened last month at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World at New York University. More than 250 artifacts from museums in Bulgaria, Moldova and Romania are on display for the first time in the United States. The show will run through April 25.
 At its peak, around 4500 B.C., said David W. Anthony, the exhibition's guest curator, ''Old Europe was among the most sophisticated and technologically advanced places in the world'' and was developing ''many of the political, technological and ideological signs of civilization.''
 Dr. Anthony is a professor of anthropology at Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., and author of ''The Horse, the Wheel, and Language: How Bronze-Age Riders from the Eurasian Steppes Shaped the Modern World.'' Historians suggest that the arrival in southeastern Europe of people from the steppes may have contributed to the collapse of the Old Europe culture by 3500 B.C.
 At the exhibition preview, Roger S. Bagnall, director of the institute, confessed that until now ''a great many archaeologists had not heard of these Old Europe cultures.'' Admiring the colorful ceramics, Dr. Bagnall, a specialist in Egyptian archaeology, remarked that at the time ''Egyptians were certainly not making pottery like this.''
 A show catalog, published by Princeton University Press, is the first compendium in English of research on Old Europe discoveries. The book, edited by Dr. Anthony, with Jennifer Y. Chi, the institute's associate director for exhibitions, includes essays by experts from Britain, France, Germany, the United States and the countries where the culture existed.
 Dr. Chi said the exhibition reflected the institute's interest in studying the relationships of well-known cultures and the ''underappreciated ones.''
 Although excavations over the last century uncovered traces of ancient settlements and the goddess figurines, it was not until local archaeologists in 1972 discovered a large fifth-millennium B.C. cemetery at Varna, Bulgaria, that they began to suspect these were not poor people living in unstructured egalitarian societies. Even then, confined in cold war isolation behind the Iron Curtain, Bulgarians and Romanians were unable to spread their knowledge to the West.
 The story now emerging is of pioneer farmers after about 6200 B.C. moving north into Old Europe from Greece and Macedonia, bringing wheat and barley seeds and domesticated cattle and sheep. They established colonies along the Black Sea and in the river plains and hills, and these evolved into related but somewhat distinct cultures, archaeologists have learned. The settlements maintained close contact through networks of trade in copper and gold and also shared patterns of ceramics.
 The Spondylus shell from the Aegean Sea was a special item of trade. Perhaps the shells, used in pendants and bracelets, were symbols of their Aegean ancestors. Other scholars view such long-distance acquisitions as being motivated in part by ideology in which goods are not commodities in the modern sense but rather ''valuables,'' symbols of status and recognition.
 Noting the diffusion of these shells at this time, Michel Louis Seferiades, an anthropologist at the National Center for Scientific Research in France, suspects ''the objects were part of a halo of mysteries, an ensemble of beliefs and myths.''
 In any event, Dr. Seferiades wrote in the exhibition catalog that the prevalence of the shells suggested the culture had links to ''a network of access routes and a social framework of elaborate exchange systems -- including bartering, gift exchange and reciprocity.''
 Over a wide area of what is now Bulgaria and Romania, the people settled into villages of single- and multiroom houses crowded inside palisades. The houses, some with two stories, were framed in wood with clay-plaster walls and beaten-earth floors. For some reason, the people liked making fired clay models of multilevel dwellings, examples of which are exhibited.
 A few towns of the Cucuteni people, a later and apparently robust culture in the north of Old Europe, grew to more than 800 acres, which archaeologists consider larger than any other known human settlements at the time. But excavations have yet to turn up definitive evidence of palaces, temples or large civic buildings. Archaeologists concluded that rituals of belief seemed to be practiced in the homes, where cultic artifacts have been found.
 The household pottery decorated in diverse, complex styles suggested the practice of elaborate at-home dining rituals. Huge serving bowls on stands were typical of the culture's ''socializing of food presentation,'' Dr. Chi said.
 At first, the absence of elite architecture led scholars to assume that Old Europe had little or no hierarchical power structure. This was dispelled by the graves in the Varna cemetery. For two decades after 1972, archaeologists found 310 graves dated to about 4500 B.C. Dr. Anthony said this was ''the best evidence for the existence of a clearly distinct upper social and political rank.''
 Vladimir Slavchev, a curator at the Varna Regional Museum of History, said the ''richness and variety of the Varna grave gifts was a surprise,'' even to the Bulgarian archaeologist Ivan Ivanov, who directed the discoveries. ''Varna is the oldest cemetery yet found where humans were buried with golden ornaments,'' Dr. Slavchev said.
 More than 3,000 pieces of gold were found in 62 of the graves, along with copper weapons and tools, and ornaments, necklaces and bracelets of the prized Aegean shells. ''The concentration of imported prestige objects in a distinct minority of graves suggest that institutionalized higher ranks did exist,'' exhibition curators noted in a text panel accompanying the Varna gold.
 Yet it is puzzling that the elite seemed not to indulge in private lives of excess. ''The people who donned gold costumes for public events while they were alive,'' Dr. Anthony wrote, ''went home to fairly ordinary houses.''
 Copper, not gold, may have been the main source of Old Europe's economic success, Dr. Anthony said. As copper smelting developed about 5400 B.C., the Old Europe cultures tapped abundant ores in Bulgaria and what is now Serbia and learned the high-heat technique of extracting pure metallic copper.
 Smelted copper, cast as axes, hammered into knife blades and coiled in bracelets, became valuable exports. Old Europe copper pieces have been found in graves along the Volga River, 1,200 miles east of Bulgaria. Archaeologists have recovered more than five tons of pieces from Old Europe sites.
 An entire gallery is devoted to the figurines, the more familiar and provocative of the culture's treasures. They have been found in virtually every Old Europe culture and in several contexts: in graves, house shrines and other possibly ''religious spaces.''
 One of the best known is the fired clay figure of a seated man, his shoulders bent and hands to his face in apparent contemplation. Called the ''Thinker,'' the piece and a comparable female figurine were found in a cemetery of the Hamangia culture, in Romania. Were they thinking, or mourning?
 Many of the figurines represent women in stylized abstraction, with truncated or elongated bodies and heaping breasts and expansive hips. The explicit sexuality of these figurines invites interpretations relating to earthly and human fertility.
 An arresting set of 21 small female figurines, seated in a circle, was found at a pre-Cucuteni village site in northeastern Romania. ''It is not difficult to imagine,'' said Douglass W. Bailey of San Francisco State University, the Old Europe people ''arranging sets of seated figurines into one or several groups of miniature activities, perhaps with the smaller figurines at the feet or even on the laps of the larger, seated ones.''
 Others imagined the figurines as the ''Council of Goddesses.'' In her influential books three decades ago, Marija Gimbutas, an anthropologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, offered these and other so-called Venus figurines as representatives of divinities in cults to a Mother Goddess that reigned in prehistoric Europe.
 Although the late Dr. Gimbutas still has an ardent following, many scholars hew to more conservative, nondivine explanations. The power of the objects, Dr. Bailey said, was not in any specific reference to the divine, but in ''a shared understanding of group identity.''
 As Dr. Bailey wrote in the exhibition catalog, the figurines should perhaps be defined only in terms of their actual appearance: miniature, representational depictions of the human form. He thus ''assumed (as is justified by our knowledge of human evolution) that the ability to make, use and understand symbolic objects such as figurines is an ability that is shared by all modern humans and thus is a capability that connects you, me, Neolithic men, women and children, and the Paleolithic painters in caves.''
 Or else the ''Thinker,'' for instance, is the image of you, me, the archaeologists and historians confronted and perplexed by a ''lost'' culture in southeastern Europe that had quite a go with life back before a single word was written or a wheel turned. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Flirting With Civilization: Artifacts suggest that 5,000-year-old farming cultures in Old Europe reached surprising levels of social and political sophistication. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUMYANA KOSTADINOVA, IVANOVA VARNA AND MARIUS AMARIE) (D1)
WOMEN IN SOCIETY: A fired clay Cucuteni figurine, from 4050-3900 B.C.
LIVING SPACE: The people of Old Europe had an evolved visual language and liked fired clay architectural models, like this one, 4600-3900 B.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIUS AMARIE) (D4) MAP
TIMELINE (Sources: Institute for the Study of the Ancient World
 Princeton University Press) (GRAPHIC BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISTORY (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); CLASSICS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); WRITERS (71%); POLITICS (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (56%)

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); EGYPT (91%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BULGARIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GREECE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



11 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: At Work on the Web, and on the Slopes

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Rachel Vecchitto, 28, is a software developer at Etsy, a Brooklyn-based online marketplace for handmade crafts. Born in Meriden, Conn., she graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, in Troy, N.Y., where she studied computer science. Before Etsy, she worked for UBS, Meetup, The New York Times Web site and most recently, a start-up called Wee Web. 
 Why do you like start-ups? I definitely like a more casual atmosphere. There is much more personal accountability and a lot more responsibility. You have more say in everything. 
 A teenager's whim: When I was in high school, I started making Web sites and stuff. I decided on a whim to major in computer science based on the fact that I liked making Web sites with HTML. I didn't realize how big a difference there was between making Web sites in HTML and the curriculum in a computer science program. Luckily, I liked it, and everything worked out.
 On gender balance: During summer orientation, I walked into a lecture hall, and it was full of 300 men and 2 women. And I was like, ''Oh, my God, what have I done?'' I think at this point, there is a Catch-22 thing going on. Now that the field is so predominantly male, it's kind of intimidating for women to do it.
 First job: The first job I had out of college was at an investment bank. I didn't like the whole culture of finance. I didn't like how everything is 100 percent driven by money. I was super, super unhappy there. I was trying to find a job that would be the opposite. So I just started sending my resume to any Web sites that I used and I liked, in New York, and eventually Meetup got back to me. I just loved it. It was a very young company at the time.
 What it's like to work at Etsy? I do back-end Web development. Everyone here really believes in Etsy. It's a lot like Meetup in a lot of respects. 
 What is Wee Web? It's a really simple stripped-down version of Facebook that was geared toward families. I definitely thought it was a great idea, and it was mostly that I knew these two guys, two of the original co-founders of Meetup. I knew they had been through the whole start-up process with Meetup, and they had done a great job there. It seemed like a really great way to do a very early start-up, something I always wanted to try. 
 The end of Wee work: I worked there for about a year. The economy kind of tanked. It's a terrible environment to be looking for funding in. The site is making enough money to support itself, but not to pay us. 
 On telecommuting: Last year, when I was at my start-up, I worked in Utah for two months and skied. It was amazing. That was probably the best idea I ever had. I worked normal East Coast hours on Monday, and Tuesday through Friday, I would ski 9 to 12, 9 to 1, and I only overlapped with East Coast hours for an hour on those days. I always had my cellphone on me. When the site goes down, I would get e-mails, and the ski lodge had free WiFi. As a result, flexibility in hours and location became my No. 1 most desired benefit. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); CURRICULA (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); WOMEN (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



12 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise, With Spending and Dubai Weighing In

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ and MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Bettina Wassener reported from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
Wall Street spent Monday trading in a narrow range but managed to push higher at the close.
 Despite a lackluster day, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose more than 5 percent in November, their biggest gains since summer. The Nasdaq rose slightly less than 5 percent for the month.
 Investors spent much of the session gauging the fallout from Dubai's debt crisis and weighed results from the first weekend of holiday shopping. 
 The sales on the weekend after Thanksgiving provided a snapshot. The National Retail Federation reported that more people shopped during the period than a year ago, but total spending was virtually unchanged at $41.2 billion, and the average shopper spending fell to $343.31 a person, from $372.57 a year earlier. 
 A report from ShopperTrak, a consulting and research firm, showed spending on Friday ticked up 0.5 percent, to $10.66 billion, compared with last year.
 As investors try to get a sense of the strength of the economic recovery, a report on business activity in the Midwest stirred some hopes. The Institute for Supply Management in Chicago recorded an unexpected pickup in orders in November, bringing its business barometer to the highest level since August 2008.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 34.92 points, or 0.34 percent, to 10,344.84, and the broader S.& P. 500-stock index rose 4.14 points, or 0.38 percent, 1,095.63. The Nasdaq was up 6.16 points, or 0.29 percent, at 2,144.60.
 Crude oil settled at $77.28, up $1.23 a barrel.
 But traders on Monday were also focused on Dubai, where Dubai World, the emirate's investment arm, said last week that it would not be able to make on-time payments for some of its $59 billion in debt. By late in the day, a report that Dubai was working on restructuring its debt seemed to quiet some investor concerns.
 Uri D. Landesman, head of global growth at ING, said investors saw danger in the potential ripple effects to other developing economies, even if American banks were not affected.
 ''What people are more concerned about are the other emerging-market situations like this that could impact global banks,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''This is still a very news-sensitive market.''
 He called the retail numbers a ''mixed bag,'' but said there were signs of strength in consumer electronics sales.
 Stephen Lewis, head of research at Monument Securities in London, said Dubai was not big enough to set off a chain of lasting repercussions outside the Middle East of the same magnitude as the crisis in September 2008, when the failure of Lehman Brothers heightened worries about all financial institutions.
 Beyond Dubai, European investors are also worried about the possibility of default from countries like Greece, Ireland and, to a lesser extent, Britain. Low-rated corporate and sovereign bonds are being shunned by some investors. 
 European shares were down at the end of trading. The FTSE 100 in London, the CAC 40 in Paris and the DAX in Frankfurt were all down 1.1 percent.
 In Japan, the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average climbed 2.9 percent, recouping some of the losses it suffered Friday, when global market jitters over the news from Dubai spread to Asia.
 In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index rose 3.25 percent. Only Singapore dropped. The Straits Times index sagged more than 1 percent as the market, which was closed for a public holiday Friday, played catch-up with the broad declines at the end of last week.
 Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 2/32, to 101 16/32, and the yield fell to 3.20 percent from 3.21 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); ELECTRONICS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



13 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Former Prosecutor Appointed to Investigate Corruption in Crane Operators' Union

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
A federal judge has appointed a former prosecutor to investigate corruption and mob influence in the powerful union that represents most tower crane and heavy equipment operators in New York City, a move prompted by numerous convictions of union officials and organized crime figures.
 The appointment, made last week, came more than a year after federal prosecutors and the union signed a consent decree providing for it. It grew out of two separate labor racketeering cases brought in 2003, and marked an important step toward the first election since 2001 at the union, Local 14-14B of the International Union of Operating Engineers. 
 The appointment also presents a broader opportunity, according to some industry and labor experts and law enforcement officials, to begin to root out what they say has been decades of corruption in the construction industry, stemming from persistent organized crime infiltration and ingrained labor bribery.
 Much, however, remains uncertain for the troubled 1,600-member union, which has traditionally drawn its power from the ability of tower crane operators -- who control the movement of men and materials -- to shut down high-rise construction projects.
 In addition to the racketeering cases, two tower crane accidents last year that left a total of nine people dead have brought greater scrutiny to crane operations and licensing. That led to the disclosure of allegations that union officials helped unqualified organized crime figures get lower-level crane licenses.
 Indeed, the union's political director, who began teaching a 30-hour safety course the city required after the accidents, admitted to investigators years earlier that he had helped unqualified people, including organized crime figures, get into the union, and in some instances helped them secure licenses to operate smaller cranes.
 In recent months, some observers say, tensions between the union and some of the construction companies that hire its members, and between Local 14-14B and other trade unions, have increased as the industry has awaited the appointment.
 During that time -- 15 months have elapsed since prosecutors and the union signed the consent decree -- other trades have made concessions in the face of the steep national economic downturn and the end of the city's building boom. But the current leadership of Local 14-14B, whose members are among the highest paid in the construction trades, has refused to do so.
 And despite the convictions that led to the consent decree, some union dissidents and law enforcement officials still contend that members of two of the city's crime families -- the Genoveses and the Colombos -- influence the management of the union, something union officials have denied.
 Moreover, some union members, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because they feared retaliation from their leadership, also said that the union's president, Edwin L. Christian, ran it like a personal fief, doling out lucrative jobs and membership in the union to friends of the realm.
 Mr. Christian, whose salary last year was $296,460, did not respond to a telephone message seeking comment and several attempts to contact him and the union's lawyers through its lobbying firm.
 The new monitor is George A. Stamboulidis, whose experience includes 13 years as a federal prosecutor handling public corruption cases, as well as those involving bank, business and labor fraud, and organized crime.
 Mr. Stamboulidis, the managing partner for the New York office of the legal firm Baker Hostetler, was appointed to the post of ''ethical practices attorney'' for Local 14-14B two days before Thanksgiving by Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. of United States District Court in Brooklyn. The brief order naming him also appointed another lawyer, Steven C. Bennett, to be a hearing officer who will adjudicate the actions brought by Mr. Stamboulidis.
 The consent decree that gives Mr. Stamboulidis and Mr. Bennett their broad authority settled a civil racketeering lawsuit brought by federal prosecutors that charged that the Genovese and Colombo families had ''exercised corrupt influence within Local 14'' for nearly three decades.
 The decree was signed in July 2008. The government said at the time that the two criminal cases, which led to the conviction of 26 union officials and members and more than a dozen accused mob figures, had established that the crime families wielded sufficient control over the union to secure no-show jobs for mob associates. Prosecutors said money from those jobs was kicked back to the crime families. Union officials and members also received payments for the no-show jobs and bribes from construction contractors to ignore the collective bargaining agreement, prosecutors charged in the civil lawsuit.
 The consent decree acknowledged that the union, after the indictments, had taken some steps to address the mob influence and corruption, including retesting backhoe operators, and revising its job-referral process. But it said that the union and prosecutors had agreed that additional steps needed to be taken.
 The consent decree gives Mr. Stamboulidis considerable powers to take those steps. They include a sweeping mandate to investigate union officials and members and rule on their fitness to hold office, as well as examine the labor organization's practices and finances, test the skills of union members, commence disciplinary proceedings, and monitor collective bargaining agreements and elections.
 But in a brief telephone interview, Mr. Stamboulidis declined to comment on his plans for the monitorship, or to discuss how he views its scope. Mr. Bennett, the hearing officer, also declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BRIBERY (78%); JUDGES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (75%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



14 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Fate of Ousted Leader Clouds Election Result in Honduras

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras 

 BODY:
Flush from his victory in the Honduran presidential election, Porfirio Lobo sat down for a congratulatory television interview on Monday morning. When asked if he planned to talk to Manuel Zelaya, the president ousted in a coup in June, Mr. Lobo made a gesture as though washing his hands. 
 ''Let Congress decide,'' he said, referring to a vote scheduled for Wednesday over whether to reinstate Mr. Zelaya to serve the last weeks of his term. 
 But Mr. Lobo, a veteran conservative politician, will not be able to wave away the coup and the political standoff that followed so breezily. 
 For a start, although preliminary results show that Mr. Lobo won the election on Sunday with a margin of 16 percentage points, many countries have said they would not recognize an election held by a de facto government that was installed by a coup. 
 On Monday, there was very limited recognition. Panama and Colombia were the first to congratulate Mr. Lobo, and President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica said his government would recognize the outcome if there was no evidence of fraud, Reuters reported. 
 The United States issued a qualified response. 
 ''The issue is not who is going to be the next president,'' Arturo Valenzuela, the new assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, told reporters in Washington. ''The Honduran people decided that. The issue is whether the legitimate president of Honduras, who was overthrown in a coup d'etat, will be returned to office.'' 
 Brazil and most other South American countries had already rejected the vote, while European countries, which are important aid donors, acknowledged the vote but said that Hondurans had to find some form of reconciliation.
 The United States continued to place its hopes for a resolution to the Honduran political crisis in an accord that it brokered a month ago and that both Mr. Zelaya and Roberto Micheletti, who leads the de facto government, signed. 
 The deal called for Congress to vote on whether to reinstate Mr. Zelaya, as well as the formation of a national unity government and a truth commission to investigate the events that led up to the coup and its aftermath. 
 But none of the accord's elements has yet been achieved. Congress delayed its vote, and then Mr. Zelaya renounced the agreement and remains a virtual prisoner in the Brazilian Embassy in Tegucigalpa, the capital. 
 On Monday, he said in a telephone interview that he would not return to office if Congress voted to restore him merely to serve as a figurehead. ''The elections only changed the president, but it did not change any of the structure that carried out the coup,'' he said. 
 Mr. Lobo has said that because he did not sign the accord, it is not up to him to fulfill it. But if he is to win recognition from other countries -- and bring back the aid money that has been suspended -- then he will probably have no choice but to go along with some version of the agreement. 
 Even before the political crisis halted investment and paralyzed an economy that was already buffeted by the global economic crisis, Honduras faced a dire situation. 
 Remittances from Hondurans working in the United States account for almost a quarter of gross domestic product, and they have dropped 12 percent this year. The Honduran economy could shrink as much as 4.5 percent this year, said Mauricio Diaz Burdett, an economist at the Fosdeh research institution here.
 Mr. Lobo had been vague as a candidate about what he would do first if elected, calling for a grand national dialogue before he would take office on Jan. 27. His family raises corn, soy and sorghum on one of the country's largest farms. In a long political career, he introduced the idea of a mobile Congress, taking congressional leaders out to the countryside to hear complaints.
 He has promised to work hard to win back the international recognition that was withheld after the coup. But the coup has revealed a number of fault lines in Honduras.
 ''The new president will have a very significant challenge in dealing with demands from the population for a more inclusive system,'' said Jennifer McCoy, the director of the Americas Program at the Carter Center in Atlanta. ''I think these demands were larger than Zelaya.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%)

PERSON: PORFIRIO LOBO (91%); MANUEL ZELAYA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



15 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Roosevelt Understood the Power of a Public Option

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
As governor of New York, Franklin D. Roosevelt crusaded for ''public power,'' government-owned electric plants. He was outraged by the high prices that monopolistic utility companies were charging and by their refusal to bring electricity to rural parts of the state, which, they said, could not be done economically. Public plants, Roosevelt said, could bring power to those who needed it and serve as a yardstick for measuring and keeping in check the prices charged by private power companies.
 Many decades later, a major point of contention in the debate over health insurance reform is the so-called public option, a government-run program that would compete with private insurers. Critics have tried to paint it as a wild-eyed experiment, but it echoes F.D.R.'s battles for public power -- in fact, the entire New Deal he later created. The argument Roosevelt made -- that a government program could fix the flaws in a poorly functioning private market -- applies with even more force in health care. 
 In the early 20th century, electricity was a hot political issue. It was expensive and did not reach many parts of the country. To Roosevelt, it was an important social justice issue. ''When he talked about the benefits of cheap electricity he did not think in terms of kilowatts,'' a top adviser said. ''He thought in terms of the hired hand milking by electricity, the farm wife's pump, stove, lights and sewing machine.''
 When he ran for president in 1932, Roosevelt made public power a cornerstone of his campaign. In a speech in Portland, Ore., he explained that it could be a ''birch rod in the cupboard,'' which the citizenry could use to punish private power companies that were gouging the public or not providing good service. Critics accused Roosevelt of Bolshevism, but he was not deterred. Public power was no more radical, he said, than the public mail.
 F.D.R. championed public power as president. During his first 100 days in office, he backed a bill to create the Tennessee Valley Authority, a federal authority that brought affordable electricity to an impoverished 40,000-square-mile stretch of the rural South. 
 Roosevelt had hoped to create other projects like the T.V.A., to establish yardstick pricing power on a national scale, but it proved to be a heavier logistical and political lift than he expected. In 1935, he brought government into the electricity business in another way. By executive order, he created the Rural Electrification Administration, which used federal money and local farm co-ops to lay electric lines in parts of the country that private companies had no interest in serving. The R.E.A. drove down electricity prices and helped bring lighting, sewing machines and radios to the 90 percent of rural Americans who were without them.
 The whole New Deal was in a sense just a series of public options, some more optional than others, that offered government as an alternative to the often-flawed private market. The Farm Credit Administration and the Home Owners' Loan Act used government funds to save farms and homes of Americans who would have been foreclosed on by private lenders. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation saved the private banking system by insuring savings accounts, which made the public willing to put money back in private banks. Social Security, all public and no option, rescued older Americans from living their final years in poverty.
 A public option for health care could work much like the yardstick Roosevelt envisioned public power becoming. A publicly run health care program could compete with private insurance companies, which have a record of overcharging and underperforming.
 Private health insurers and their allies in Congress argue that government is too inept to run a health insurance program and that it will be too costly. Actually, government already does that -- for the military and in Medicare and Medicaid. As for cost, opponents of the public option may fear it would work too well -- that to compete, private insurers would have to keep their prices down and the quality of their services up.
 The private insurers and lawmakers who oppose the public option also claim it would be a radical break from how things have been done in this country. In reality, it follows directly from the New Deal tradition that created many of the mainstays of American society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); INSURANCE (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (70%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



16 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Fed Begins Testing a Strategy to Exit a Securities Program

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said Monday that it would begin testing its strategy to shrink its trillion-dollar portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and eventually unwind its biggest program to prop up financial markets. 
 The central bank emphasized that the move was strictly an exercise in operational preparedness and did not signal a tightening of monetary policy or an effort to begin raising interest rates.
 Indeed, Fed officials announced in October that they were exploring the use of so-called reverse repo agreements as a tool for carrying out their ''exit strategy'' from emergency measures adopted during the financial crisis.
 But the move did demonstrate that the Federal Reserve's preparations were becoming more concrete, and it highlighted the delicate task of bringing monetary policy back to normal without disrupting financial markets.
 The Federal Reserve slashed its benchmark overnight interest rate virtually to zero last December. But because that was not enough to revive credit markets, it also announced plans to drive down long-term interest rates by purchasing almost $1.5 trillion worth of government-guaranteed mortgage-related securities and Treasury bonds.
 Buying up mortgage-backed securities helps push up their price and drives down the effective interest rate, or yield. The purchases have already helped double the size of the Fed's balance sheet, to more than $2 trillion, since September 2008. 
 Reverse repurchase agreements, or repo agreements, are one way to tackle that job. Instead of actually selling the huge portfolio of mortgage securities, which some Fed officials fear would cause an abrupt spike in long-term interest rates, the central bank would essentially lend them out and promise to buy them back later.
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which carries out the Fed's trading activities, said it would begin small-scale testing now that it has discussed the plan with market participants.
 ''Like the earlier rounds of testing, this work is a matter of prudent advance planning,'' the New York Fed said in a statement. It ''represents no change in policy stance, and no inference should be drawn about the timing of any change in the stance of monetary policy in the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



17 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: No Big Cost Rise In U.S. Premiums Is Seen in Study

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Congressional Budget Office said Monday that the Senate health bill could significantly reduce costs for many people who buy health insurance on their own, and that it would not substantially change premiums for the vast numbers of Americans who receive coverage from large employers.
 The eagerly awaited report, which came as the Senate began debate on the legislation, provided Democrats with ammunition against Republicans who have criticized the bill on the ground that it would raise costs for a majority of Americans. 
 Centrist Democrats like Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, whose votes are vital to President Obama's hopes of getting the bill approved, had feared that the measure would drive up costs for people with employer-sponsored coverage. After reading the budget office report, Mr. Bayh said he was reassured on that point.
 Before taking account of federal subsidies to help people buy insurance on their own, the budget office said the bill would tend to drive up premiums. But as a result of the subsidies, it said, most people in the individual insurance market would see their costs decline, compared with the costs expected under current law. The subsidies, a main feature of the bill, would cost the government nearly $450 billion in the next 10 years and would cover nearly two-thirds of premiums for people who receive them.
 For most people who get health insurance through employers -- five-sixths of the total market -- the budget office concluded that there would be little change in their premiums relative to the amounts projected under current law.
 Administration officials said the report provided a lift to the bill, which embodies Mr. Obama's top domestic priority.
 ''The C.B.O. has rendered a fundamental judgment that this will reduce the deficit and reduce people's premium costs,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, who huddled with Senate Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill on Monday. ''All the Republican leadership will guarantee you is the status quo.''
 But Republican senators like Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, said the report validated their concerns. They focused on the prediction that unsubsidized premiums in the individual insurance market, less than a fifth of those with health insurance, would rise an average of 10 percent to 13 percent.
 ''The analysis by the Congressional Budget Office confirms our worst fears,'' Mr. Grassley said. ''Millions of people who are expecting lower costs as a result of health reform will end up paying more in the form of higher premiums. For large and small employers that have been struggling for years with skyrocketing health insurance premiums, C.B.O. concludes this bill will do little, if anything, to provide relief.''
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said the highly partisan floor debate that opened Monday afternoon was one of the most significant in the history of the Senate. It is expected to continue for much of December, with supporters and opponents alike offering a raft of amendments as the White House and Democratic leaders seek to put together the 60-vote coalition necessary to win passage.
 Administration officials continued to reach out to lawmakers in both parties to try to build support. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she met Monday for 45 minutes with Nancy-Ann DeParle, director of the White House Office of Health Reform, to discuss her concerns about the legislation.
 In its report, the budget office compared estimates of premiums in 2016 under the new legislation and under current law. In either case, after seven years of inflation, premiums would be substantially higher than they are today.
 The budget office said the analysis of premiums was extremely complex, so the experience of individuals and families ''could vary significantly from the average.''
 ''In general,'' it said, ''the proposal would tend to increase premiums for people who are young and relatively healthy, and decrease premiums for those who are older and relatively unhealthy.''
 Under the legislation, it said, the average premium per person in the individual insurance market would be 10 percent to 13 percent higher than under current law. But, it said, most people in this market -- 18 million of the 32 million people buying insurance on their own -- would qualify for federal subsidies, which would reduce their costs well below what they would have to pay under current law.
 For people receiving subsidies, the budget office said, premiums would be 56 percent to 59 percent lower than under current law. 
 Without subsidies, it said, premiums under the bill would average $5,800 a year for individuals and $15,200 a year for families buying coverage on their own. Under current law, the comparable figures would be $5,500 and $13,100.
 ''This study indicates that, for most Americans, the bill will have a modestly positive impact on their premium costs,'' Mr. Bayh said. ''For the remainder, more will see their costs go down than up.''
 Under the bill, the budget office said, individual policies would have to provide more benefits and pay a larger share of costs than most existing policies do. In other words, it said, some people would pay more, but would also get more.
 Insurers, it said, would have to cover certain services that, in many cases, are not covered by existing policies in the individual insurance market. These include maternity care, prescription drugs, mental health services and substance abuse treatment. Moreover, it said, under the legislation, insurance would cover an average of 72 percent of medical costs for people buying insurance on their own, up from 60 percent under current law.
 The budget office said it foresaw ''smaller effects on premiums for employment-based coverage.'' 
 In groups with 50 or fewer employees, it said, unsubsidized premiums in 2016 would average $7,800 a year for individuals and $19,200 for families -- scarcely any different from the amounts expected under current law. Of the 25 million people receiving coverage from small businesses, it said, 3 million would qualify for subsidies, which would reduce their premiums by an average of 8 percent to 11 percent.
 Large employers would generally not be eligible for such assistance. Their premiums in 2016 under the bill would average $7,300 for individual coverage and $20,100 for family coverage, the report said. Under current law, the comparable figures would be $7,400 for individual coverage and $20,300 for family coverage.
 The Senate bill would impose an excise tax on high-premium health plans offered by employers. People who remain in such ''Cadillac health plans'' would pay higher premiums, but most people would avoid the effect of the tax by enrolling in plans with lower premiums, the budget office said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, on Monday in the Senate, where floor debate began on health legislation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said the debate on health care was one of the most significant in Senate history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

PERSON: EVAN BAYH (73%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



18 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HELP FOR THE JOBLESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: A Lifeline Runs Out

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The changes the health care bills in Congress envision are years away -- not soon enough to help the millions of unemployed people who on Monday lost their temporary federal subsidies for health insurance. 
 That means that people like Linda Rasor, 56, who lives in Haslett, Mich., and was laid off from her energy consulting job in February, will have to start paying three times as much for health insurance.
 As losses rippled out from Michigan's devastated auto industry, Ms. Rasor was laid off from Johnson Controls Inc. With the federal subsidy, she has been paying $407 a month to cover herself, her husband, who is an independent contractor, and her daughter, who is in college. But with the subsidy now gone, her premiums will jump to $1,100 a month.
 The subsidies, which Congress approved earlier this year under the economic stimulus package, expired Monday for the first wave of unemployed people who were still on their employers' insurance plans under the decades-old Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, popularly known as Cobra. 
 The subsidies were to allow an estimated seven million people who had lost their jobs from September 2008 to this December to help keep that insurance for up to nine months; normally they would have to pay the full premiums, but the subsidies covered 65 percent of that cost. 
 Ms. Rasor receives $1,400 in unemployment insurance, which means the new premiums will leave her with just $300 at the end of each month, cutting into her ability to help pay the mortgage and her daughter's tuition.
 A new report by Families USA, a health advocacy group based in Washington, has found that the average Cobra premium varies widely by state -- and in nine states is actually higher than the average unemployment insurance check.
 Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, predicted that most people who lost their subsidies on Monday would not be able to pay the full cost of their premiums and would drop their coverage altogether.
 Mr. Pollack said that the broader health care legislation in Congress could help by establishing new insurance marketplaces with tax credits, but that they would not be set up for several years, leaving millions of people stranded in the interim.
 Some Democrats have introduced legislation outside of the health care bills to extend the Cobra subsidies. 
 Ms. Rasor has given herself until the end of December to find work in Michigan. Then she and her husband will start looking out of state.
 ''I feel like I'm part of 'The Grapes of Wrath,' '' she said. ''I've got to leave home to find a job.'' 
 KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); TUITION FEES (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); TAX LAW (73%); APPROVALS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



19 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Dockers Passes the Pants To a New Generation

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FIRST, Justin Timberlake brought sexy back. Now, Dockers will try to bring khaki back.
 One could, of course, make the case that Mr. Timberlake's task was far easier because sexy never really went very far. By contrast, although Dockers remains a popular and successful brand in the category of men's casual pants, its long-term health is in question because many younger men associate Dockers with its heyday of casual Fridays and the 1990s.
To try to freshen its appeal, Dockers will be reintroduced in a campaign scheduled to begin Tuesday with radio, print, poster and online advertising. Television commercials are planned to start in February, when the brand is to return to the Super Bowl after an eight-year hiatus. 
 The campaign, by the San Francisco office of Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will be accompanied by changes in the pants, including more colors and different fits. The campaign carries the cheeky theme ''Wear the pants.'' 
 Executives at Draft FCB and Levi Strauss & Company, which has sold Dockers since 1986, declined to discuss the budget for the campaign other than to describe it as 10 percent more than was spent in 2008. That was the last year of significant spending for Dockers ads.
 According to TNS Media Intelligence, a unit of WPP, Levi Strauss spent $18.1 million to advertise Dockers in major media in 2008, compared with $19.6 million in 2007 and $36.4 million in 2006. For the first six months of 2009, TNS reported, spending was a meager $51,000.
 However large the budget, whether Dockers can be spruced up for the 21st century remains a question. Not only is it difficult for a brand to continually recalibrate its desirability, but many new brands are competing for men's clothing dollars. Among them are Bonobos, a brand sold only online that promotes itself as ''Better fitting. Better looking,'' and bicycling pants from niche brands like Swrve.
 The fact that ''the Dockers brand became the sportswear calling card of the '90s'' should not dissuade Levi Strauss from trying an image makeover, said Tom Julian, president at the Tom Julian Group, a brand consultancy in New York.
 ''The timing could be right'' for the campaign, he wrote in an e-mail message, because by buying khaki and other casual pants ''the consumer can expand his wardrobe at a value-oriented price point.'' That, obviously, is important as apparel sales remain sluggish in this economy.
 ''As they say, a crisis in a recession is a terrible thing to waste,'' said Jim Calhoun, president for the Dockers brand at Levi Strauss in San Francisco, who said that the ''core'' of the Dockers line sells for $25 to $55 with a ''majority'' at $27 to $35.
 Not only are many men more price conscious, he added, they are taking how they look ''a bit more seriously,'' making khaki a stylish and affordable alternative to denim.
 ''I don't think that we, as leaders of the category, have done much to keep the khaki category fresh and exciting, to give consumers a reason to buy,'' he said.
 ''There's an opportunity to introduce the khaki category in a big way to a younger consumer, a 25-to-35-year-old who wants to act, feel and look like a grown-up,'' he added. 
 That thought is expressed throughout the campaign, which takes a wry tone, assuming the voice of one friend chiding or teasing another to, as the saying goes, man up.
 For instance, one ad proclaims: ''It's time to get your hands dirty. It's time to answer the call of manhood. It's time to wear the pants.'' Another urges, ''Khaki diem,'' while a third declares, ''Behold the second dawn of man'' -- clad in a stylishly wrinkled pair of Dockers.
 The tone -- half serious, half kidding, both sending up and saluting truisms about masculinity -- is one that has been heard in several campaigns lately that are aimed at younger men. 
 For example, ads describe Mitchum deodorant as the brand ''for men who like their antiperspirant the way they like their coffee -- strong and under $5.'' Ads for Camel snus, a smokeless tobacco product, assert, ''Be heard not herded.'' And ads for Curve for Men fragrance present a make-believe men's magazine with cover lines like ''Cars, girls and girls on cars'' and ''Girls, cars, sports, girls, sports, cars.''
 The ''Dockers brand of masculinity is less about 'Don't eat quiche' and more about being chivalrous and mature,'' said Desmond LaVelle, senior vice president and creative director at Draft FCB San Francisco.
 His partner on the campaign, Julie Scelzo, also a senior vice president and creative director at the agency, said the campaign was tested with women ''to make sure it's not sexist.''
 ''It's not about men taking over again,'' Ms. Scelzo said, nor is it about whether men are ''gay, straight, whatever.''
 Rather, she said, to counter a widespread perception that Dockers devolved into a bland brand that ''became synonymous with synonymous,'' the new ads seek to remind men that khaki is ''rooted in Jack Kerouac, James Dean, Steve McQueen.'' 
 (Indeed, the Gap division of Gap Inc. featured Kerouac and Dean among khaki-clad celebrities in ads in the '90s.)
 To emphasize that Dockers is a new brand for a new era, the campaign will use social media like Facebook and Twitter in addition to more traditional media. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mockup of a Dockers ad that is part of a broad campaign with the theme ''Wear the pants'' that seeks to reintroduce the brand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MEN (89%); BRANDING (89%); BUDGETS (87%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



20 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: As Term Ends, Philippine Leader Seeks a Seat in Congress

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA 

 BODY:
Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, the deeply unpopular Philippine president, announced Monday that she would run for a seat in Congress in elections scheduled for next year, ending months of speculation about her plans when her term ends in June but also raising questions about her long-term intentions. 
 ''I have been mulling different ways to stay involved,'' Mrs. Arroyo said in a taped message that a government radio station broadcast on Monday. ''After much soul-searching, I have decided I will file my certificate of candidacy for Congress in order to serve the hard-working people of my province.''
Mrs. Arroyo, 62, has survived several impeachment efforts, but her administration has been embroiled in many scandals involving corruption and has been accused of involvement in the extrajudicial killing and abduction of hundreds of activists. 
 An American-educated economist, Mrs. Arroyo became president in 2001 after a popular revolt toppled President Joseph Estrada. She was his vice president at the time. In 2004, she was returned to office in an election marred by accusations of fraud, which she denied. 
 Her opponents immediately denounced her latest move and linked it to longstanding speculation that she wanted to remain in public office to maintain her immunity from prosecution and ward off investigations of her presidency. 
 She will run in her home district in Pampanga Province, just north of Manila, her lawyer said in a briefing on Monday. Her son Juan Miguel Arroyo, a congressman who represents the district, has said he will step aside if she chooses to run. 
 In her radio message, Mrs. Arroyo tried to brush aside the debate over her intentions. Calling the issue ''so hypothetical,'' she said: ''I won't even bother to speculate about it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); IMMUNITY (71%); SCANDALS (69%); LAWYERS (64%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



21 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: A Tragic Mistake

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
''I hate war,'' said Dwight Eisenhower, ''as only a soldier who has lived it can, as one who has seen its brutality, its futility, its stupidity.''
 He also said, ''Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and not clothed.''
 I suppose we'll never learn. President Obama will go on TV Tuesday night to announce that he plans to send tens of thousands of additional American troops to Afghanistan to fight in a war that has lasted most of the decade and has long since failed. 
 After going through an extended period of highly ritualized consultations and deliberations, the president has arrived at a decision that never was much in doubt, and that will prove to be a tragic mistake. It was also, for the president, the easier option.
 It would have been much more difficult for Mr. Obama to look this troubled nation in the eye and explain why it is in our best interest to begin winding down the permanent state of warfare left to us by the Bush and Cheney regime. It would have taken real courage for the commander in chief to stop feeding our young troops into the relentless meat grinder of Afghanistan, to face up to the terrible toll the war is taking -- on the troops themselves and in very insidious ways on the nation as a whole.
 More soldiers committed suicide this year than in any year for which we have complete records. But the military is now able to meet its recruitment goals because the young men and women who are signing up can't find jobs in civilian life. The United States is broken -- school systems are deteriorating, the economy is in shambles, homelessness and poverty rates are expanding -- yet we're nation-building in Afghanistan, sending economically distressed young people over there by the tens of thousands at an annual cost of a million dollars each.
 I keep hearing that Americans are concerned about gargantuan budget deficits. Well, the idea that you can control mounting deficits while engaged in two wars that you refuse to raise taxes to pay for is a patent absurdity. Small children might believe something along those lines. Rational adults should not.
 Politicians are seldom honest when they talk publicly about warfare. Lyndon Johnson knew in the spring of 1965, as he made plans for the first big expansion of U.S. forces in Vietnam, that there was no upside to the war. 
 A recent Bill Moyers program on PBS played audio tapes of Johnson on which he could be heard telling Defense Secretary Robert McNamara, ''Not a damn human thinks that 50,000 or 100,000 or 150,000 [American troops] are going to end that war.''
 McNamara replies, ''That's right.''
 Nothing like those sentiments were conveyed to the public as Johnson and McNamara jacked up the draft and started feeding young American boys and men into the Vietnam meat grinder.
 Afghanistan is not Vietnam. There was every reason for American forces to invade Afghanistan in the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001. But that war was botched and lost by the Bush crowd, and Barack Obama does not have a magic wand now to make it all better.
 The word is that Mr. Obama will tell the public Tuesday that he is sending another 30,000 or so troops to Afghanistan. And while it is reported that he has some strategy in mind for eventually turning the fight over to the ragtag and less-than-energetic Afghan military, it's clear that U.S. forces will be engaged for years to come, perhaps many years. 
 The tougher choice for the president would have been to tell the public that the U.S. is a nation faced with terrible troubles here at home and that it is time to begin winding down a war that veered wildly off track years ago. But that would have taken great political courage. It would have left Mr. Obama vulnerable to the charge of being weak, of cutting and running, of betraying the troops who have already served. The Republicans would have a field day with that scenario.
 Lyndon Johnson is heard on the tapes telling Senator Richard Russell, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, about a comment made by a Texas rancher in the days leading up to the buildup in Vietnam. The rancher had told Johnson that the public would forgive the president ''for everything except being weak.''
 Russell said: ''Well, there's a lot in that. There's a whole lot in that.''
 We still haven't learned to recognize real strength, which is why it so often seems that the easier choice for a president is to keep the troops marching off to war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); SUICIDE (68%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); CHILDREN (67%); POOR POPULATION (67%); BUDGETS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); POVERTY RATES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); VIET NAM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



22 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Foreign Policy Guide Passes Along His Compass

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
Javier Solana never hid his ambition to be the European Union's first foreign minister under a new Constitution, and later, the Lisbon Treaty. In the end, European politics delayed the treaty's passage until late this year, and Mr. Solana, now 67, who spent the last 10 years building the institutions of a European Union foreign service, yields Tuesday to a younger, less experienced figure -- Catherine Ashton, 53, of Britain.
 Mr. Solana is in China, for a last European Union-China summit meeting. But in an interview on Friday, he called Europe an adventure and said he was proud to have been one of its guides. 
 ''The European Union, in a way, is a journey,'' he said. ''You have to keep moving. The speed may change, but it's a beautiful journey,'' from the alliances that formed after the slaughter of World War II to the broader union that now provides a zone of peace and stability in Europe for the first time in centuries.
 ''There's no doubt we've established Europe as a political reference point,'' he said in the interview in his Brussels office. ''The important thing is to continue,'' especially ''in a world that has changed completely, where the West has less influence'' and where Europe and the United States, whatever their differences, ''need to talk about how the future will be shaped.''
 The economic crisis has made every task harder, Mr. Solana said. ''But even with the crisis, and even because of it, it's a changing world, with emerging partners, and there is a demand for a Europe that acts outside strict economic matters. I feel it, and I think we can deliver.''
 Trained as a physicist, earning his Ph.D. and teaching for a time, he brings an analytical and largely dispassionate eye to politics.
 Asked about the ambitions of large countries like France, Britain and Germany to play an independent role in world affairs akin to that of the United States, China or India, Mr. Solana was gently contemptuous. ''It's really a fantasy to think you can play in this world of today without being part of this bigger element of Europe,'' he said. ''Even for the most, say, complete countries of Europe, Europe is a must. It's not a sentimental question.''
 Mr. Solana's experience brought him the trust of many, including successive American presidents. A former foreign minister of Spain, he was secretary general of NATO from 1995 to 1999, helping to manage peacekeepers in Bosnia, NATO enlargement and the first war NATO ever fought, against Slobodan Milosevic.
 In October 1999, he became the European Union's first High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy, and over the years he has built an inner cabinet and policy unit, an intelligence unit and operations center and a staff that totals more than 1,000 people, said Cristina Gallach, his longtime aide. 
 The European Union is engaged all over the world, including the Balkans, Afghanistan and the Middle East. Mr. Solana has also been the lead negotiator for the West with Iran. 
 Ms. Ashton, whom Mr. Solana praises, will also inherit the European Union international aid portfolio, which has been handled by Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the commissioner for external relations. The trick, Mr. Solana said, is ''to lead at a speed where you can maintain unity without ending up with the lowest common denominator.'' 
 But unlike NATO, the European Union is based on what he called ''responsible sovereignty'' -- understanding that ''you pollute not just your own sky, but everyone's sky.''
 On Iran and the Middle East, he expressed frustration, though he praised President Obama's effort to address the Middle East early in his term. ''The dust has not settled in Iran, and it is linked to an inability to take decisions for internal political reasons,'' he said. 
 As for the Middle East, Mr. Solana praised the Obama administration's special envoy, George J. Mitchell, as ''very serious, honest and very patient, which is not a minor thing.'' But in July, Mr. Solana created a fuss by suggesting that the United Nations impose a solution if the sides could not agree.
 While the Israelis reacted badly, he still says he thinks it could happen. Negotiations will require international mediation, he said. ''If we let the two parties alone, we have experience already, it will never be over,'' he said. ''This is a problem whose solution is known by many. The problem is how to arrive there, no?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Javier Solana, 67, after his final news conference as European Union policy chief outside his office in Brussels on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER HOSLET/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (90%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



23 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Obama Gives Troop Orders Before Speech

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Reporting was contributed by Peter Baker, David E. Sanger, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Elisabeth Bumiller and Mark Landler from Washington, Steven Erlanger from Paris, and John F. Burns from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama issued orders to send about 30,000 additional American troops to Afghanistan as he prepared to address the nation Tuesday night to explain what may be one of the most defining decisions of his presidency.
 Mr. Obama conveyed his decision to military leaders late Sunday afternoon during a meeting in the Oval Office and then spent Monday phoning foreign counterparts, including the leaders of Britain, France and Russia. 
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, declined to say how many additional troops would be deployed, but senior administration officials previously have said that about 30,000 will go in coming months, bringing the total American force to about 100,000. 
 On top of previous reinforcements already sent this year, the troop buildup will nearly triple the American military presence in Afghanistan that Mr. Obama inherited when he took office and represents a high-stakes gamble by a new commander in chief that he can turn around an eight-year-old war that his own generals fear is getting away from the United States.
 The speech he plans to deliver at the United States Military Academy at West Point at 8 p.m. will be the first test of his ability to rally an American public that according to polls has grown sour on the war, as well as his fellow Democrats in Congress who have expressed deep skepticism about a deeper involvement in Afghanistan.
 Mr. Gibbs told reporters at the White House that Mr. Obama would discuss in the speech how he intended to pay for the plan -- a major concern of his Democratic base -- and would make clear that he had a time frame for winding down the American involvement in the war. 
 ''This is not an open-ended commitment,'' Mr. Gibbs said. 
 The administration was sending its special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, Richard C. Holbrooke, to Brussels on Tuesday to begin briefing NATO and European allies about the policy. 
 He will be joined at NATO headquarters there on Friday by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who will brief NATO foreign ministers in his capacity as the senior allied commander. 
 Before leaving for West Point on Tuesday, Mr. Obama will meet with more than two dozen Congressional leaders at the White House to discuss his plan. Mr. Obama spent much of Monday calling allied leaders. 
 He spoke for 40 minutes with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who signaled that France was not in a position to commit more troops. There are currently 3,750 French soldiers and 150 police officers in Afghanistan.
 ''He said France would stay at current troop levels for as long as it takes to stabilize Afghanistan,'' said an official briefed on the exchange, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe a private diplomatic exchange. 
 Instead of troops, Mr. Sarkozy told Mr. Obama that France was putting its focus on a conference in London sponsored by Germany and Britain to rally support for Afghanistan, officials in Washington and France said. 
 The French defense minister, Herve Morin, publicly confirmed the French position on Monday, saying, ''There is no question for now of raising numbers.''
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain said Monday that Britain would send 500 additional troops to Afghanistan in early December, raising the number of British troops there to 10,000. 
 The announcement was closely coordinated between the governments in London and Washington, the two largest troop providers in the 43-nation coalition fighting in Afghanistan. Mr. Brown spoke to Mr. Obama by video link after his announcement in the House of Commons.
 Mr. Obama also called President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India, and he met at the White House with Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia.
 Administration officials said that Mr. Obama in his speech would lower American ambitions for the rate of training Afghan soldiers and the national police, a position that could put him at odds with some senior lawmakers. 
 They have been pressing to expand and accelerate the training, to speed the day when Afghan forces could assume more security duties and American troops could begin to withdraw. 
 In his strategic assessment, General McChrystal called for increasing the Afghan Army and the national police force by a combined 400,000 people. 
 But after originally embracing this approach, administration officials had second thoughts, fearing that pursuing this goal would just churn out thousands of substandard recruits. An administration official said the focus now would be on producing somewhat fewer but better trained troops, as quickly as possible. The shift was reported Monday by The Wall Street Journal.
 Under the new plan, newly trained Afghan security forces will work with American or other allied forces at every level. General McChrystal recommended this requirement in his assessment to increase the quality of the Afghan force and ''accelerate their ownership of Afghanistan's security.'' 
 A senior Defense Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe a plan that had not been formally announced, said Monday that the first additional troops would be thousands of Marines sent to opium-rich Helmand Province, a Taliban stronghold in the south of Afghanistan. The Marines will begin to arrive in the region in January, the official said, and will be followed by a steady flow of tens of thousands..
 Most of the additional forces in the south will go to Kandahar Province, the Taliban heartland, where the United States is stretched thin and has very few troops in the province's largest city, also called Kandahar. The Taliban are currently in control of large parts of the province and are contesting control of the city. 
 The Defense Department official said that the additional United States troops would be used to try to secure the city and then the region. 
 ''With more forces we should be able to lock down the security in Kandahar and the surrounding areas of Kandahar,'' the official said. 
 The official said that after the president's speech, which will begin at 5:30 a.m. Wednesday in Afghanistan, General McChrystal would brief his commanders and then embark on a daylong fly-around to visit NATO military installations in the country -- Kandahar in the south, Mazar-i-Sharif in the north, Bagram Air Base in the east and Herat in the west.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American troops from a bomb-detection unit on duty in Wardak Province, Afghanistan, watched passing aircraft on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO LOPEZ-MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A10) GRAPHIC: THE STATE OF THE WAR: A wide array of factors, including military and economic costs, relationships with other countries and the public perception of the war, have shaped President Obama's decision to send approximately 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan. (Sources: Department of Defense
ABC News/BBC/ARD Poll
Brookings Institution
USAID
World Bank
Congressional Research Service
CNN/Opinion Research Corporation Poll
 Gallup/USA Today Poll) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (82%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (59%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009



24 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: How Much Debt Is Too Much?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Sure, you can look at a country's government debt relative to its economic output. But the magic number also depends on other factors.

 BODY:
My colleague Graham Bowley and I have an article today about which countries -- besides Dubai -- are considered vulnerable to debt problems in the near future. Latvia and Greece, for example, are two countries that economic analysts say may be at risk for default in the coming years. 
How can you tell which countries are really in trouble?
You might look to the country's ratio of government debt to gross domestic product, one significant indicator for vulnerability to default that Graham and I mentioned in the article.
In Latvia, for example, general government debt is expected to reach 48.6 percent of gross domestic product next year, according to recent projections from Moody's Investors Service.
But compared to some other countries, that number doesn't look so bad. I've embedded below a selection of other high- and middle-income countries that Moody's sent us. Click the plus sign to zoom in.
In the United States, general government debt will reach an expected 99.3 percent of G.D.P. in 2010. In Japan, the comparable number is a whopping 223.4 percent. And yet you don't hear about too many investors fretting about whether either of these two countries will collapse tomorrow.
So why the double standard?
Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff's new book "This Time Is Different," which chronicles 800 years of financial crises, provides some context. Their second chapter, titled "Debt Intolerance," shows that historically, the thresholds for default are much lower for many emerging markets. 
Default has often occurred in countries that had debt-to-G.D.P. levels well below the 60 percent ceiling imposed by Europe's Maastricht Treaty, which was intended to protect the euro from government defaults. 
There are multiple explanations for why emerging markets are likely to default at lower levels of debt than more developed countries are. For one, emerging markets are more likely to borrow in a currency other than their own. That means they can't use inflation as a tool to devalue their debt levels if they run into trouble, and so are more likely to get out of debt problems by restructuring their debt or defaulting outright.
Professors Reinhart and Rogoff also found that -- just as you would judge a friend's creditworthiness based on his history of deadbeat-ness -- with countries, default history matters a lot. On page 30 they write:
[O]nce a country slips into being a serial defaulter, it retains a high and persistent level of debt intolerance. Countries can and do graduate, but the process is seldom fast or easy. Absent the pull of an outside political anchor (e.g., the European Union for countries like Greece or Portugal), recovery may take decades or even centuries.
So how much debt is too much debt? The magic number varies by country, based on a whole host of factors including the strength of a country's institutional structures (can politicians make the hard decisions on where to cut spending and how to raise revenue?) and its prior track record on debt repayment.

        
Fearing (Another) U.S. Debt Default
        
Debt After Financial Crisis
        
Irish Miracle - or Mirage? 
        
Preventing Future Debt Crises in Europe
        
More Answers on Europe's Debt Crisis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DEVALUATION (69%) Carmen M. Reinhart; debt; Dubai; Greece; international economics; Japan; Kenneth S. Rogoff; Latvia; Maastricht Treaty; Moody's; national debt; United States; Economix

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATVIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); GREECE (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



25 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: Big, Small or Not at All: Assessing Public-Works Projects

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER ACETO and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Considering the value of public works projects. 

 BODY:
Overview | What types of government public-works projects best serve the nation? What role should government play in stimulating economic growth and fostering development? What can we learn today from past public-works projects? In this lesson, students consider the role of public-works projects in American history and engage in a contest to get their own improvement ideas approved by the class. They then analyze the benefits and downsides of historical public-works projects. 
Materials | Envelopes and research resources.
Warm-Up | Have students pair up to try to figure out what the following items (written on the board) all have in common:

        
Erie Canal. 
        
Transcontinental railroad.
        
Urban sewer and sanitation systems.
        
Tennessee Valley Authority.
        
Rural electrification.
        
Hoover Dam.
        
Interstate Highway System.
        
Subway networks in San Francisco and Washington.
        
Big Dig in Boston.
Invite student responses and, if necessary, reveal that all are public-works projects. Then lead a discussion about the nature of public works. Ask: What are public works? Why are they done? Who benefits or is supposed to benefit from them? How are they financed? What are some local examples of public-works projects? How about state examples? National? Which ones are best, in your opinion? Why? 
You may also wish to introduce related terms and concepts like infrastructure, development and renewal.
When you are satisfied that students understand the basics, give each pair a copy of the following two quotations about the role of government in the management of resources:
"What vast additions to the Conveniences and Comforts of Living might Mankind have acquired, if the Money spent in Wars had been employed in Works of public utility! What an extension of Agriculture, even to the Tops of our Mountains: what Rivers rendered navigable, or joined by Canals: what Bridges, Aqueducts, new Roads, and other public Works, Edifices, and Improvements, rendering England a compleat Paradise, might have been obtained by spending those Millions in doing good, which in the last War have been spent in doing Mischief "
- Benjamin Franklin (1783) 
"If you put the federal government in charge of the Sahara Desert, in five years there'd be a shortage of sand."
- Milton Friedman (20th century)
Give the pairs a couple of minutes to read and interpret the quotations, focusing on the basic argument and the view about the role and priorities that government should take in each one. Then invite student response as well as their own opinions. Which one do they tend to agree with more, and why? 
Finally, ask: What would happen if our country followed the advice of just one of these thinkers? What might happen if there were not a continuing tension between these two conceptions of government?
Related | The New York Times reporter Louis Uchitelle, a Polk Award winner, examines the current debate over public-works projects in the context of past "megaprojects" in the article "Entering the Superproject Void": 
For the first time in memory, the nation has no outsize public works project under way. The Big Dig, with its three and a half miles of underground highways channeling traffic beneath downtown Boston, was completed in December 2007, the month the Great Recession began. [ ]
So what are we missing, exactly? Huge public works - or more precisely, their historic absence - didn't cause the recession any more than their renewal would quickly draw the country out of it. But their effect on the economy is almost always noticeable if not easily measured. Some economists argue that the continual construction of new megaprojects adds a quarter of a percentage point or more, on average, to the gross domestic product over the long term. Again, cause and effect aren't clear, but the strongest periods of economic growth in America have generally coincided with big outlays for new public works and the transformations they bring once completed. 
If their absence creates a void, particularly in a recession, what can fill it?
Read the entire article with your class using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: 

        
What rationale is given for the "quick-fix approach" to public works under President Obama?
        
How have large public-works projects been justified in the past?
        
Do the projects being considered in Denver, Salt Lake City and New York City fit the United Nations officer Francisco Rodriguez's criterion for return on investment?
        
What two planned projects could potentially fit Rodriguez's criterion?
        
When did President Franklin D. Roosevelt's legacy of large public-works projects begin to end, and why?
Activity | Explain to students that they will be engaging in a public-works challenge today, inspired by the question (explored in the article) of the relative value of megaprojects versus improvements and new projects undertaken on the local level. 
The task: to create a plan to benefit a school community with a defined budget and time limit. Students will work together in groups to compete for approval by the full class (or, if desired, a guest judge). 
Divide students into small groups and give each group an envelope with a slip of paper outlining its assignment as follows (tell students not to reveal the contents of their envelope to other groups). 
One group's slip of paper should say the following:
Project scope: Schoolwide.
Project budget: $1,000.
All the other groups' paper slips should read as follows: 
Project scope: One classroom (either this classroom or the classroom of your choice).
Project budget: $100.
Then give students a specific time limit, 10 or 15 minutes, to generate improvement ideas and settle on one to present. (Note: You may wish to substitute "townwide" for "one classroom" and "statewide" for "schoolwide" if you want your students to focus on more public-works projects.)
When the time is up, ask each group to present its plan; have the group with the schoolwide focus go last. Once all plans have been detailed, have the class vote, or the invited judge decide, which plan is the best. 
Next, lead a brief discussion. Ask: Why do you think this plan was the winner? Why did one group get a schoolwide task with $1,000 and the rest focus only on the classroom? How much benefit would the school enjoy if all the classroom-level projects were enacted versus the one schoolwide project? If the school really had $1,000 to spend on improvements, how do you think that money should be spent? What other ideas for schoolwide projects do students in the classroom-level groups have?
Explain that the schoolwide plan is similar to a project that would benefit a large region or the nation as a whole versus the class project, which would have a more limited and local impact. 
To close the activity, discuss the benefits of local public-works improvements versus megaprojects, and return to the views of government expressed in the quotes from the warm-up activity. Ask: Should national leaders focus more attention and money on projects that will have national or local benefits, or a combination of both? Why? What sorts of projects might be able to both improve people's lives and contribute to economic growth? 
Going Further | Assign student groups one historical public-works project, using the initial list from the warm-up, to investigate and to analyze, using primary and secondary sources found in classroom, library and Internet resources. Provide them with the handout "Assessing Public Works Projects in American History" (PDF) to guide their work. 
For example, a group assigned to analyze the national highway system created by the Highway Act of 1956 might use their textbooks, historical New York Times articles like "Superhighway System in 20 Years, Has Tied a Vast Nation Together" (PDF), National Interstate and Defense Highways Act (1956) documents and related documents from the Eisenhower archives to research the development and impact of the highway system.
When research is complete, have student groups present their findings to the class. Then lead a discussion on what lessons can and should be drawn from history about public-works projects - their value to the public, the cost-benefit ratio, their ability to stimulate economic growth, the benefits of large-scale versus smaller-scale projects and so forth. 
Ask: What commonalities exist among these projects across time? How does the American economy at the time the project was undertaken compare with the current climate? After examining these historical projects, do you think the government should focus resources on infrastructure, as Benjamin Franklin argued, or should it limit big spending for such projects, as Milton Friedman believed? Why?
Finally, students write letters to the government representative of their choice, like a local or state legislator or a member of Congress, about the proper use of public-works projects in the current economic climate. In their letters, they should aim to convince the legislator whether superprojects like Gov. Edward G. Rendell's high-speed railway in Pennsylvania or regional ones like those in New Orleans provide the best approach for public-works spending (they can also argue against spending any money on public-works projects), drawing on the historical examples. Use this format to ensure that their letters are appropriately written.
As an alternative to letter-writing, assign a document-based question essay based on the Smithsonian's DBQ on the impact of the federal highway system, allowing students to substitute the project they studied for "federal interstate highway system" in the question.
Standards | From McREL, for grades 6-12: 
Economics
1 - Understands that scarcity of productive resources requires choices that generate opportunity costs.
6 - Understands the roles government plays in the American economy.
History: Historical Understanding
1 - Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
2 - Understands the historical perspective.
Civics
1 - Understands ideas about civic life, politics and government.
United States History
28 - Understands domestic policies in the post-World War II period.
Thinking and Reasoning
1 - Understands and applies the basic principles of presenting an argument.
3 - Effectively uses mental processes that are based on identifying similarities and differences.
6 - Applies decision-making techniques.
Working With Others
1 - Contributes to the overall effort of a group.
4 - Displays effective interpersonal communication skills.
Language Arts
1- Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
2 - Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
5 - Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.

        
At Risk? Investigating Dams
        
School for Santas
        
10 Ways to Teach About Election Day
        
Income and the Top 1 Percent
        
Do You Trust Your Government?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (95%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); GEOGRAPHY (75%); MOUNTAINS (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%); MONETARY POLICY (59%) economy; government; infrastructure; public works; stimulus; Academic Skills; American Government; American History; Civics; Current Events; Economics; Environment and Society; Expository Writing; Federal Government; Fiscal and Monetary Policy; Geography; History of North America; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Physical Systems; Power and Authority; Research Skills; Social Studies; State and Local Government; Witnessing History

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAHARA DESERT (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011



26 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: In November, Car Sales Showed More Stability

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
New-vehicle sales in the United States were flat for the second consecutive month in November, a sign that the market was gradually recovering from the lows hit this year.
 General Motors, Ford Motor, Toyota and Honda each said their sales were about the same last month as they were a year ago.
 The only big carmaker to report a large drop was Chrysler, whose sales fell 26 percent. Hyundai, in contrast, reported a 46 percent increase. 
 New vehicles were selling at a seasonally adjusted, annualized rate of nearly 11 million in November, according to MotorIntelligence.com, which tracks the industry. That is slightly higher than the 10.5 million rate in October and much higher than the historically low rate of about nine million early this year.
 ''The market is slowly steadying itself and gaining strength,'' Michael C. DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief market analyst, said in a conference call with analysts and reporters. ''We're encouraged.''
 To meet the increase in demand, G.M. said it would build 75 percent more vehicles in the first quarter than it did a year earlier, and Ford said it would raise first-quarter production by 58 percent. Both companies had been drastically cutting production since the middle of last year.
 The November selling rate was the year's highest, outside of July and August, when sales surged during the government's cash-for-clunkers program. The program gave a credit of up to $4,500 to about 700,000 new-vehicle buyers who turned in less fuel-efficient cars or trucks.
 Though far below the 17 million rate that was common earlier this decade, November's results were positive for an industry that is suffering its steepest one-year slump since the 1970s.
 ''We saw a significant uptick in traffic, but not to the levels of the robust years of the past,'' Ken Czubay, Ford's vice president for United States sales, service and marketing, said. ''With the cloud over our heads of unemployment and consumer confidence not completely clear, we'll have guarded optimism for December.''
 Through 11 months of 2009, industry sales were down 24 percent compared with those in the period a year earlier.
 A year ago, many would-be buyers were unable to obtain financing, and the Detroit automakers were making their first pleas to Congress for billions of dollars in emergency aid to help them stay in business.
 Today, many automakers are increasing production because of rising sales and low inventories. But they are moving cautiously because of uncertainty about how quickly the economy will rebound next year.
 ''We can see now that a modest economic recovery is under way,'' Emily Kolinski Morris, Ford's senior United States economist, said. ''It won't begin to feel like a recovery until the labor market has begun to improve materially.''
 But there are ''no signs of backtracking,'' she said, ''which is a welcome development.''
 The one large carmaker that has so far been missing out on the industry's recovery is Chrysler, which left bankruptcy protection in June. Chrysler's sales were down 38 percent this year through November, and it has continued to report double-digit percentage declines in recent months even as its competitors have begun to show signs of strength.
 Ford, which separated itself from its crosstown rivals by not filing for bankruptcy protection or taking government loans, is on pace to increase its share of the United States market this year. Ford's market share has fallen every year since 1995. Through October, Ford's share was 15.2 percent, up from 14.3 percent in the first 10 months of 2008.
 Ford's sales in November were up 0.1 percent while G.M.'s were down 2 percent. Toyota's were up 3 percent. Honda's were down 3 percent. Nissan's rose 21 percent.
 Hyundai led the industry's gains last month, as it had through most of 2009 by appealing to consumers who wanted lower-priced but reliable alternatives to some more popular vehicles. A report released Tuesday by the Environmental Protection Agency gave Hyundai another lift by showing that it had topped Honda to sell the nation's most fuel-efficient vehicle lineup.
 At G.M., the four brands being sold or shut down -- Hummer, Pontiac, Saab and Saturn -- accounted for just 8 percent of sales in November. Sales at those brands were down 48 percent from a year ago, while sales of Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet and GMC vehicles were up 6 percent.
 G.M. built its last Pontiac, a G6 sedan, at a plant in Orion Township, Mich., last week. Susan Docherty, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales, said Tuesday that the company expected to exhaust its inventory for Pontiac and Saturn in about three months.
 ''They're going quickly,'' she said. ''The wind-down of both of these brands is progressing very nicely, and it's actually exceeding our expectations in terms of the sales progress.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



27 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Undeterred by Economies Elsewhere, Australia Raises Interest Rates Again

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Australia, whose economy has rebounded rapidly this year after the global financial turmoil, raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point on Tuesday. It was the third increase in three months, highlighting policy makers' confidence that the economy will continue on an upward path. 
 It is the first time the Reserve Bank of Australia has raised the cost of borrowing three months in a row andit indicated that the central bank's decision makers were undeterred by the global jitters set off by Dubai World's decision last week to defer repayment of some debt.
 The increase Tuesday, which took the key cash rate to 3.75 percent, had been widely expected. It nonetheless provided a reminder of Australia's resilience after the global crisis.
 While recovery in the United States, Japan and Europe remains feeble and unemployment is high, Australia's economy has rebounded rapidly, mainly because of voracious Asian demand for its natural resources.
 As in other countries, government stimulus measures and interest rate cuts totaling 4.25 percentage points after Lehman Brothers' implosion last year also helped prop up the economy. 
 But Australia avoided the drastic collapses and bailouts needed in the United States and Europe, and was aided by its proximity to Asia, where developing nations grew robustly this year.
 With gross domestic product growth widely expected to return to 3.25 percent next year, Australia has been able to start scaling back its stimulus measures more rapidly than other nations. 
 ''In China and Asia generally, where financial sectors are not impaired, recovery has been much quicker to date and prospects appear to be for good growth in 2010,'' Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



28 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Dubai Concerns Eased, Wall St. Moves Up

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Stocks were higher on Tuesday as jitters over the debt crisis in Dubai eased and reports showed signs of stability in three cornerstones of the economy: housing, manufacturing and construction.
 Uncertainty pervaded the markets in recent days, as investors tried to assess whether the inability of a Dubai investment fund to keep up with $59 billion in debt payments would rattle banks and other emerging economies.
 But on Tuesday, investors across the world seemed more confident that the crisis was contained. A pledge by Dubai World, the emirate's investment vehicle, to restructure its debt helped calm investors even though the company said late Monday that it was seeking to renegotiate only the $26 billion in obligations held by its troubled real estate developer, Nakheel. 
 ''It's a huge sigh of anticipatory relief that Dubai is not going to blow up in the global investor's face,'' said M. Jake Dollarhide, chief executive of Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa, Okla. ''What this market needs is to be able to trust the worldwide comeback and to know that worldwide economies are going to hold strong.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 126.74 points, or 1.23 percent, to 10,471.58 -- a 14-month high. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 13.23 points, or 1.21 percent, to 1,108.86, also to a 14-month high. 
 The Nasdaq composite index gained 31.21 points, or 1.46 percent, to 2,175.81. The increases were broad-based, led by shares of utility and telecommunication companies. 
 Shares of Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator, rose 2.1 percent after reports said General Electric had reached a tentative deal that would clear the way for the sale of NBC Universal to Comcast. Shares of G.E. gained 0.94 percent.
 In addition to the Dubai news, investors took in three reports on Tuesday that, while not glowing, largely beat expectations and added optimism to the forecast for an economic rebound.
 An index on tentative home sales compiled by the National Association of Realtors reached its highest level in three years in October, aided by the allure of a government-financed credit of up to $8,000 for first-time home buyers. 
 A separate barometer on manufacturing activity, from the Institute for Supply Management, showed a slight drop in the pace of expansion in November, falling short of Wall Street's expectations. The report, however, recorded an increase in new factory orders in November, suggesting growth.
 Finally, the Commerce Department said construction spending remained flat in October, at $910.77 billion, as a rise in residential spending helped offset losses in commercial spending. Excluding residential improvements, which are difficult to estimate, spending fell 1.1 percent. The government also revised its September data, recording a 1.6 percent decrease rather than a 0.8 percent increase in construction spending.
 Hank B. Smith, chief investment officer for Haverford Investments, said that while the economic reports, taken together, did not show great gains, they reassured investors. ''All recoveries go in fits and starts,'' he said. ''If you look at the reports as a whole, clearly we are recovering.''
 Commodities posted gains on Tuesday. Gold shot past $1,200 an ounce for the first time, but then retreated slightly, ending the day at $1,197 an ounce. Crude oil prices rose $1.09, to $78.37 a barrel.
 The dollar continued to weaken, trading at $1.51 against the euro.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 23/32, to 100 25/32, and the yield rose to 3.27 percent from 3.20 percent late Monday.
 Later this week, investors will examine two crucial snapshots of the health of the economy. On Thursday, retailers will report November sales figures, giving a sense of the strength of holiday sales. On Friday, the Labor Department will release its monthly unemployment report. 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's auction of four-week notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); NEW ORDERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (56%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



29 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: With Sale of NBC, Analysts Say Vivendi Can Pursue Other Acquisitions

BYLINE: By CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Selling its stake in NBC Universal will allow Vivendi to shed one of the most important pieces of the legacy of its former chief executive and use the proceeds to search for growth in emerging economies, analysts said Tuesday.
 Vivendi, the media and telecommunications company based in Paris, is in the final stages of negotiations to sell its 20 percent stake in the television network and movie studio to General Electric for $5.8 billion. 
 That would clear the way for G.E. to sell control of the company to Comcast, the largest cable operator in the United States, in a deal that would value NBC Universal at about $30 billion and create, in Comcast, one of the world's largest media companies. 
 Vivendi bought Universal in 2000 under Jean-Marie Messier, who led the company through rapid diversification to become the world's second-largest media group behind what was then AOLTime Warner until its near collapse and his ouster in 2002.
 ''It's closing a chapter on the previous management,'' said Conor O'Shea, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. ''They were happy to get out of a legacy asset. It gives them more money to play with, but they didn't do it to make an acquisition.''
 NBC Universal was created by the merger of NBC and Vivendi Universal in 2004, when G.E. took its 80 percent stake. But the final unwinding of Vivendi's involvement does not mean the French company has lost its appetite for acquisitions.
 Jean-Bernard Levy, its current chief executive, is using the company's capital to push into the developing world.
 ''They don't want to be left out of emerging markets,'' Mr. O'Shea said. ''That's the hot territory.''
 In July, talks to acquire the African operations of the Kuwaiti telephone company Zain were halted by Vivendi, which also owns SFR and Maroc Telecom. Last week, the French financial daily Les Echos reported that Vivendi was interested in a stake in Orascom Telecom Algeria.
 But in its most intense deal-making this year, Vivendi beat out Telefonica of Spain last month with a cash bid to take a controlling stake in GVT, a Brazilian telecommunications company valued at $4.18 billion. It has since bought millions of additional shares.
 ''They need to buy growth,'' said Alexander Wisch, an analyst at Standard & Poor's Equity Research in London, ''and they're using cash from G.E. to buy assets where they can generate growth.''
 Mr. Wisch saw Vivendi's actions as a defensive move. As equity markets have risen, and with Comcast expressing interest to G.E., the French company saw an opportunity to sell at a higher price, even if much of that money is already spent.
 ''Two-thirds of the money from the deal will be spent on an acquisition in Brazil, where they have no experience,'' Mr. Wisch said. ''They're overpaying for these assets because Comcast gave them an opportunity.''
 At the same time, the $5.8 billion Vivendi is to receive for its stake in NBC Universal could help it pay dividends to its shareholders. The money could also be used to pay 744 million euros ($1.1 billion) to TF1, the French television group, to satisfy a deal announced last week to raise Vivendi's stake in the pay TV operator Canal Plus France to 75 percent from 65 percent.
 That kind of move might be more palatable to stakeholders than diversifying abroad.
 ''What most investors would like Vivendi to do is concentrate on companies they already own,'' said Nick Bell, media analyst at Jefferies in London.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article on Wednesday about Vivendi's pending sale of its share of NBC Universal reversed the identifications of the two men shown. Robert C. Wright, who was head of NBC in 2004, when the picture was taken, was on the right, and Jean-Bernard Levy, who was then Vivendi's chief operating officer and is now its chief executive, was on the left.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert C. Wright, left, then the head of NBC, with the Vivendi executive Jean-Bernard Levy in May 2004 upon the creation of NBC Universal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHRISTENSEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); DIVESTITURES (79%); MERGERS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%)

COMPANY: VIVENDI (94%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); MAROC TELECOM (52%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (94%); VIV (BIT) (94%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); IAM (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (52%); SIC4311 UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: JEAN-BERNARD LEVY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



30 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 NORTH KOREA'S DRASTIC PLAN
 To Suppress Inflation
 North Korea has taken steps to wipe out unofficial economic activity and suppress inflation, issuing a revalued currency and sharply limiting the amount of old money people can exchange for new bills, South Korean news reports said. Page A6 
 SCIENTIST STEPS DOWN 
 The head of the British research unit at the center of a controversy over the disclosure of thousands of e-mail messages among climate scientists has stepped down pending the outcome of an investigation. Page A6 
 IRAN FOCUSED ON ECONOMY
 The outside world may be focused on Iran's intensifying confrontation with the West over its nuclear program. But at home, Iranians are more concerned with an ambitious and risky new effort to overhaul the country's economy. Page A9
 NEW NUCLEAR INSPECTOR
 A new top inspector took charge of the International Atomic Energy Agency as it faces one of the most turbulent periods in its 52-year history. Page A8 
 PHILIPPINE MAYOR CHARGED
 Prosecutors charged the scion of a political clan in the Philippines with 25 counts of murder, eight days after the massacre of 57 people, more than half of them journalists and news media workers. Page A8 
 VIOLENCE IN EAST JERUSALEM
 Jewish nationalists and Palestinians clashed in an East Jerusalem neighborhood after the Israelis took over a house by court order in a predominantly Arab area. Page A12 
 In Iraq, Films at Bomb Sites A17 
 National
 SUSPECT IN POLICE SHOOTING
 Shot and Killed in Seattle
 A man suspected of fatally shooting four uniformed police officers was shot and killed in Seattle by a police officer who chanced upon him during a routine patrol when investigating a stolen car, the authorities said. Page A18 
 JUST IN CASE THEY DROP IN
 What should human beings do when aliens from other worlds happen by the neighborhood? Denver might have something of an answer if enough people vote yes next year on a ballot proposal to create an Extraterrestrial Commission. Page A27 
 LAWYER PLEADS NOT GUILTY
 A South Florida lawyer accused of running a $1 billion Ponzi scheme pleaded not guilty to several federal racketeering charges. He faces up to 100 years in prison if convicted on all counts. Page A26 
 ATHEIST HOLIDAY ADS
 Over the next two weeks, 270 ads with slogans like ''No god? ... No problem!'' will go up on city buses and trains in the Washington area as part of holiday campaigns sponsored by secular groups in cities around the country and abroad. Page A27 
 New York
 TERROR SUSPECT FILES 
 For Dismissal Over Delay
 Lawyers for a terrorism suspect who spent nearly five years in American government custody before being sent to Manhattan for prosecution in a civilian court have asked a judge to dismiss his indictment, saying that the authorities violated his constitutional right to a speedy trial. Page A30 
 Business
 THIS SHOPPING SEASON
 Better Than Last Year
 Despite reports of weaker spending on the Friday after Thanksgiving, the nation's stores appear to have fared much better this November than last year. Page B1 
 PFIZER TO MARKET RARE CURES
 Pfizer's announcement that it had licensed the worldwide rights to a treatment for a rare genetic disorder signals the start of an effort to enter the business of selling expensive drugs for rare diseases, a once largely ignored market. Page B2 Arts
 WAITING 80 YEARS, A PLAY
 Finally Takes the Stage
 Dramatists have long understood the visceral appeal, and box office draw, of stories about powerful people behaving badly. As the lead in ''So Help Me God!,'' a long-forgotten 80-year-old play that opens on Monday at the Lucille Lortel Theater, Kristen Johnston tries not to disappoint. Page C1 
 FIVE ENDINGS FOR SHAW PLAY
 Nearly 60 years after George Bernard Shaw's death, the Gingold Theatrical Group will offer not one but five endings to the play ''Why She Would Not,'' at the Players club, capping a nearly four-year commitment to stage readings of all Shaw's works. Page C2 
 Sports
 FORMER RUTGERS STAR,
 Eye on Draft, Goes to Turkey
 With an eye on the 2010 W.N.B.A. draft, Epiphanny Prince, the guard who skipped her senior year at Rutgers this season, has begun an odyssey that has landed her on a team in Turkey. Page B13 
 Dining
 LOWER HEAT AT THE STILL
 To Preserve Subtle Flavors
 Vacuum distillation is enabling alcohol makers to create livelier spirits, and chefs and bartenders to extract flavor essences with greater purity. The process allows for lower temperatures so that flavors are protected, especially the more delicate citrus, flowery and fruity ones. Page D1 
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A33
 Thomas L. Friedman Page A33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (86%); JOURNALISM (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (72%); CITIES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); RELIGION (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); REFERENDUMS (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); MAYORS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); JUDGES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); MURDER (55%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ISRAEL (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



31 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Come to Park; Stay for the Architecture

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
This week, the Art Basel Miami Beach and Design Miami fairs have brought thousands of art aficionados to Florida. But they will have to look beyond the usual venues to see one prominent new artwork: a parking garage by the Swiss architecture firm Herzog & de Meuron.
 The building, known as 1111 Lincoln Road, features seven exposed concrete slabs supported -- seemingly precariously -- on tilted concrete columns. It rises 125 feet from a row of ground-floor storefronts to a 5,200-square-foot penthouse with a sloping terrace.
 Robert Wennett, who developed the building, says he believes its striking geometry gives it the power of minimalist art. ''The idea,'' Mr. Wennett said, ''was it should not look or feel like a garage.''
 With a prestigious architectural pedigree, it joins garages by the likes of Frank Lloyd Wright, Paul Rudolph and the Miami firm Arquitectonica, which are included in ''Houses of Cars: Innovation and the Parking Garage,'' a show at the National Building Museum in Washington (through July 11). 
 Terence Riley, an architect who until October was the director of the Miami Art Museum, said Mr. Wennett's building was also ''a chance to show Miami Beach that important architecture doesn't have to be Art Deco.'' 
 Still, for all its architectural bravado, the real artistry in the building may be the deal-making that made it happen. When Mr. Wennett bought the site, which included an office building, in 2005, zoning regulations would have permitted him to construct about 50,000 square feet. But given the shortage of parking in Miami Beach, the city doesn't count most parking spaces in a building's square footage for zoning purposes.
 This meant that by adding parking, Mr. Wennett was able to significantly increase the square footage he could build. And with that additional room, he could create an imposing structure that would attract high-end tenants to its 13 retail and four restaurant spaces. 
 So far, all but one of the retail spaces are rented, he said, at annual rents of up to $150 a square foot, which is high for Miami Beach. The first restaurant to sign on, which will open early next year, is a Shake Shack -- an outpost of the Manhattan burger phenomenon and the first venture outside New York City by Danny Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group. 
 Retail tenants include Taschen, the German book company, and Nespresso, the cult coffee marketer. The one space that isn't at ground level -- a glass box on the fifth floor of the garage -- is being taken by Alchemist, a boutique featuring designers Rick Owens and Martin Margiela and the jeweler Chrome Hearts. Alchemist already has a Lincoln Road location, but Roma Cohen, who owns the company with his wife, Erika, said that they ''fell in love with the space, and there was no way we would have let someone else take it. When will this ever come up again?''
 But one potential tenant withdrew from the project this fall: Genius Jones, a high-end children's ''design store'' with three other locations in South Florida, had reserved a space but decided not to occupy it. In the last year, ''business on South Beach has declined significantly,'' the company's owner, Daniel Kron, said. ''So it's just not the right moment for us to open an expensive new store in South Beach.'' 
 ''Most of the other retailers coming to 1111 are big international companies looking for their first toehold in Miami,'' Mr. Kron said. ''For them, it's a different story.'' 
 Mr. Wennett made his pitch directly to those companies' top executives, stressing the power of the architecture to attract and excite customers. ''Product can be sold much better on the Internet,'' he said. ''The reason to take physical spaces is to create an experience.''
 Mr. Wennett, 49, has spent 25 years in commercial real estate, mostly in the Northeast. In 1998, he and a partner created what became Starwood Urban Investments, based in Washington. By 2004, the fund owned some $500 million in properties in urban centers, and it decided to liquidate all of its holdings. That, Mr. Wennett said, ''was very good timing.'' 
 The sale left him a lot of money, and the desire, he said, for a solo project. In the meantime, he had moved to Miami, where he became interested in the SunTrust Building, a concrete office tower from the 1960s. It anchored the western entrance to the Lincoln Road Mall -- a pedestrian promenade designed by Morris Lapidus in 1960 and extensively renovated in the 1990s. 
 The building held about 100,000 square feet of offices; the lot next door contained a bank branch and some 50 parking spaces.
 Mr. Wennett was able to buy the combined property, he said, for $23.5 million from a German company, and he began making plans to upgrade the existing structure and build on the adjacent lot, adding ground-floor storefronts in both parcels.
 He considered 10 architects, he said, before settling on Pierre Herzog and Jacques de Meuron, who designed the ''bird's nest'' stadium at the Beijing Olympics and who, he said, were fascinated by the chance to build in a city as culturally rich as Miami Beach. (They have since designed the new home of the Miami Art Museum; it has yet to break ground.)
 The Pritzker Prize-winning architects are known for the exquisite skins of their buildings -- including the perforated copper sheets of the de Young Museum in San Francisco and the curved ''bubble'' glass of their Prada Tokyo store.
 But 1111 Lincoln Road has no skin. According to Jacques Herzog, it's pure Miami Beach: ''All muscle without clothing.''
 Creating a structure 15 feet taller than the SunTrust Building required approvals from the city's Design Review Board and Board of Adjustment, which Mr. Wennett received the first time he presented the plans.
 Once the building was approved, Mr. Wennett turned to a related project -- transforming the street in front of the building into an extension of the Lincoln Road Mall. He paid to have Raymond Jungles, a prominent Miami-based landscape designer, sketch designs for an ''urban glade,'' inspired in part by the work of Mr. Lapidus. The city has also approved those plans, and construction is under way. 
 Mr. Wennett said he spent about $8 million out of his own pocket on the design and approval phases of the project.
 This meant that, by the time he sought a loan for the project, in 2007, most of the risk had been eliminated and ''it was easy to find financing.'' Ultimately, he said, he borrowed about $30 million of the project's construction costs, which he estimates at $57 million. He said he owned 93 percent of the partnership that controls the property; two limited partners hold the rest.
 The completed complex includes a new two-story building with a SunTrust Bank branch on the ground floor and four large condos on the second. Mr. Wennett is selling the four condos -- they are listed for about $2.5 million each -- but will otherwise be dependent on rent to make back his investment. He said the garage's 300 parking spaces will go for market rates -- no architecture premium. 
 He said he had benefited from the dip in the economy, because when he broke ground in 2007, ''construction costs were probably 20 percent less than they would have been at the top of the market.'' Also, he said, he got his choice of contractors.
 And, he said, it helped a lot that he was doing an architecturally distinguished building, which attracted tenants even in tough times. ''If we had built a normal project,'' he said, ''it probably never would have happened.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The garage building is the work of Herzog & de Meuron, who did the ''bird's nest'' stadium for the Beijing Olympics.
 Robert Wennett, the developer, sees the building as minimalist art. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORIS MORENO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); ZONING (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); JEWELRY (78%); RETAILERS (75%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



32 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Runoff in Atlanta Mayoral Election Is Too Close to Call

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
Kasim Reed, a former Georgia state senator, held a narrow lead over City Councilwoman Mary Norwood in the Atlanta mayor's race on Tuesday night, but the outcome remained too close for a clear winner to be declared.
 With 98 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Reed was ahead by 620 votes out of 84,000 cast, giving him 50.4 percent. Provisional ballots were scheduled to be counted on Thursday, and state law allows a recount if the difference between candidates is less than 1 percent.
 Although Ms. Norwood did not concede, Mr. Reed claimed victory in remarks to supporters late Tuesday. 
 ''Guess who's going to be the 59th mayor of the city of Atlanta,'' he said, though the mood at his crowded victory party seemed subdued and uncertain.
 A victory by Mr. Reed would end Ms. Norwood's chances of becoming this city's first white mayor in 35 years.
 Unusually, the runoff attracted even more voters than the general election on Nov. 3, suggesting heightened interest from voters who either saw a chance to break with tradition and change City Hall, or who were galvanized by the idea that the city's black majority might lose the mayor's office. 
 Mr. Reed, a lawyer and a Democrat, vaulted from third place to a strong second in the general election, placing him in a runoff against Ms. Norwood, an at-large member of the City Council. Mr. Reed, who ran the campaign of the departing mayor, Shirley Franklin, and won endorsements from many members of the city's political establishment, both black and white, outraised Ms. Norwood by about half a million dollars.
 Each candidate promised to increase the size of the police force and clean up the city's finances. Accounting problems and deficits fueled by pension increases and the recession left many voters recoiling in disgust and exasperation. Mr. Reed also promised to reopen recreation centers across the city that were closed in a round of budget cuts.
 In the final weeks of the campaign, Mr. Reed kept his momentum and played up Ms. Norwood's political naivete, increasing the intensity of his attacks on what he said was her ineffective performance on the City Council. She never served as chairwoman of a committee or spearheaded legislation. 
 Ms. Norwood countered that the administration refused to give her information that she had requested and that its books were not in order. She was forced to defend herself for missing a vote of crucial importance to the city's sizable gay and lesbian community, to extend benefits to domestic partners, for voting to increase pensions for city workers and for opposing a tax increase that ended furloughs for police officers and firefighters enacted last year.
 Ms. Norwood styled herself as an outsider despite eight years on the Council and set the tone of the race by stoking dissatisfaction over the city's finances and spikes in crime in some areas. Several times, Ms. Franklin herself accused Ms. Norwood of playing fast and loose with the truth, demanding that she document her accusations. 
 ''Norwood has not demonstrated vision, competence or integrity in her public life as an elected official,'' Ms. Franklin said the week before the general election. ''Rather she has spent her time building a political network to run for mayor. It looks like she'll be successful.'' She later said she supported Mr. Reed.
 Ms. Norwood's strength as a candidate was based on her assiduous attention to neighborhood issues like trash pickup and historic preservation.
 Although she lives in the predominantly white, wealthy neighborhood of Buckhead, she attracted a diverse group of dedicated followers and her campaign materials emphasized her connection to black residents. 
 But Mr. Reed questioned her political affiliation -- Ms. Norwood is an independent but has voted more often in Republican primaries than Democratic ones -- and put her on the defensive.
 In Druid Hills, a mostly white neighborhood near Buckhead, Shasta Zaring, 64 and white, said she had voted for Mr. Reed in part because of his political connections and endorsements from people like Andrew Young, a former mayor and civil rights leader. 
 ''I felt like Kasim Reed is really in touch with the pulse of the city,'' she said. ''It's his time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kasim Reed, right, held a thin lead in the mayoral election and edged close to claiming victory in a speech to supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY SMITH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); MAYORS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITIES (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); BUDGETS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); ACCOUNTING (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



33 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Bank's Action Rattles A New Mall in Chicago

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
It took nearly two decades to get to this day, but on Nov. 20, Block 37, a five-level mall in the heart of this city's downtown, got the green light to open its public areas. However, the developer, Joseph Freed & Associates, was not celebrating.
 That afternoon -- in what real estate specialists say was an extraordinary event for a mall on the verge of welcoming its first shoppers -- a judge named a receiver from CB Richard Ellis, the real estate services giant, to take control of this 285,000-square-foot project away from Freed, which is based here. 
 The request for a receiver came from Bank of America, the lead lender in the $205 million construction loan. In October, the bank sued to foreclose, saying the developer lacked the funds to complete the mall. Situated on State Street, between Randolph and Washington Streets, the glassy new mall stands opposite the former Marshall Field flagship store, now a Macy's.
 Developing Block 37, named for the site's designation as one of Chicago's original blocks, has long been a priority for Mayor Richard M. Daley, whose office faces the site. 
 Beginning in 1989, several older buildings were demolished to make room for a mixed-use development with an underground walkway linking two subway lines. Successive developers failed to make their projects work, however. 
 In 2006, the owner at the time, the struggling Mills Corporation, sold the retail portion of the site to Freed and the office portion to Golub & Company, a local firm, and its financial partner, BlackRock, an investment firm in New York. Last year, Golub completed a 16-story office building overlooking Daley Plaza. It is anchored by CBS and Morningstar, the financial services company. 
 Like other developers trying to complete projects in the worst recession in decades, Freed has experienced defections by retailers. Yet by the time the foreclosure lawsuit was filed, more than 70 percent of the space was spoken for -- either through signed leases or commitments, said Laurance H. Freed, the president of the family-owned business. A Steve Madden shoe store opened the Saturday before Thanksgiving. A few other stores, including the athletic apparel retailer Puma, followed on the Friday after Thanksgiving. 
 Mr. Freed said he had been working with the bank to modify the loan when he was surprised with the suit. ''To us it seems suspicious that a month before you're opening for the bank to do this,'' Mr. Freed said in an interview in the former Carson Pirie Scott department store on State Street, which he is redeveloping. ''We felt very good about what we were doing, but they lost confidence in us.'' The company said it had invested $20 million in the project and assigned 20 professionals to work on it full time. 
 But Shirley Norton, a bank spokeswoman, said Freed had been in default since ''at least'' March 2008. ''We have been in negotiations with the developer since March 2009, but cost overruns have continued to rise,'' she said in an e-mail message. ''The banks believe that the appointment of a receiver is the right step to ensure that construction and management continue uninterrupted.'' 
 The bank's foreclosure suit also caught city officials off guard, said Steven J. Holler, a deputy corporation counsel. Based on ''competence and capacity,'' Mr. Holler told Judge Margaret Ann Brennan of Cook County Circuit Court, ''Freed is better positioned to finish this project than CBRE.'' CB Richard Ellis said it could not comment. 
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Holler said: ''Our view is that Freed has done about as good a job as you can do in this economy, but that ultimately the project is dependent on funding from Bank of America, so we took a neutral position on the receivership.'' Mr. Holler said $71.9 million was needed to complete the project. 
 In court papers, Freed said that it had not actually missed any loan payments. The developer did acknowledge two defaults but characterized them as insignificant. 
 One default took place when Freed failed to invest more equity to correct what the bank says is now a $41.6 million loan imbalance, resulting from cost overruns. A second default occurred when Freed did not maintain the required $5 million in unencumbered funds. Before filing its suit, Bank of America unsuccessfully tried to persuade Freed to repay the $135 million it has received so far.
 Mr. Freed attributed the cost overruns and delays to the state of the economy; enhancements to Mills's design, including expanded elevators and a larger sky-lighted atrium; and inconsistent actions by the bank. Muvico, a movie theater chain, had agreed to open a theater on the fourth floor, but when it ran into financial trouble and sought to modify the terms, the bank did not go along, according to court papers.
 Though the city has imposed a number of conditions, including a requirement for a mix of local and national tenants, Mr. Freed said these had no bearing on the delays. 
 At the Nov. 20 hearing, John H. Anderson, a lawyer for the bank, told the judge that the settlement talks had failed. Freed ''simply doesn't have the cash to make this project a go,'' he said. 
 Daniel Lynch, one of Freed's lawyers, said his client was seeking additional sources of equity. ''He's been a couple of hundreds of thousand dollars short at various times,'' Mr. Lynch acknowledged.
 For technical reasons, the receiver is not yet in charge of the mall but is expected to take over soon. 
 The change will inevitably cause more delays, said David Stone, president of Stone Real Estate, a Chicago company that specializes in urban retail real estate. ''It's going to take any leasing agent time to get up to speed,'' he said. ''If there's something retailers like, it's consistency and predictability.''
 More than money is at stake in this dispute, said Mr. Freed, who plans to appeal the receivership order. ''We've had a group dedicated to this project, with a lot of rightful pride,'' he said. ''It's been 20 years in the making. There's a lot of emotion invested in this site.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 16-story office tower was a related piece of the project.
 Block 37, a shopping mall in downtown Chicago, has been nearly two decades in the making, and stores are just starting to open. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); SHOE STORES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); FOOTWEAR (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); FAMILY COMPANIES (64%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLUB & CO (66%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); STEVEN MADDEN LTD (52%); CARSON PIRIE SCOTT & CO (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); CBG (NYSE) (58%); SHOO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (52%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (52%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



34 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: A Misguided Tax Revolt

 BODY:
Thomas Suozzi has just lost his job, voted out as Nassau County executive by about 380 votes in an election that turned on voters' frustration and anger about high property taxes. It was a victory for free-form anxiety, but a loss for Nassau County, whose tax-weary residents went after the wrong target. 
 Mr. Suozzi was elected in 2001 to pull Nassau out of a fiscal ditch, and he did -- over the hard-core opposition of an intransigent Republican minority. He brimmed with ideas to reinvigorate the local economy and was an early leader of the crusade to repair Albany's rancid political culture. He had big plans for a third term, but they were whomped by the recession and a little-known Republican, Edward Mangano, who also ran for the newly invented Tax Revolt Party.
 Mr. Suozzi was not alone in the New York region. In one election night voters fired County Executive Andrew Spano in Westchester, Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey and Democratic candidates in local races all over. The Nassau County Legislature is in Republican hands again, after 10 years. Nassau's comptroller, the Democrat Howard Weitzman, fell to a little-known Republican.
 The Republicans took the simplistic path to success, railing against taxes to turn voters' pain into votes. But their logic was grossly misplaced. Nassau's property taxes are crushingly high, but the county portion of the bill, Mr. Suozzi's responsibility, is only about 16 percent. More than 60 percent goes to school districts, whose bloated budgets voters routinely support. Twenty percent pays for a galaxy of special taxing entities, like garbage districts and fire departments, that voters have never seen fit to consolidate or close despite Mr. Weitzman's withering audits.
 The prime reformer for cutting taxes and putting the county economy on solid footing has been Mr. Suozzi. He led a campaign to curb costly state mandates on local governments and pushed an ambitious plan for development in faded downtowns and in central Nassau.
 What did Mr. Mangano offer? A pledge to repeal an energy tax that would immediately blow a $40 million hole in the county budget and imperil its bond rating. Vague promises to cut spending in a campaign Newsday's editorial page called ''idea free.'' The Republican who unseated Mr. Spano, Rob Astorino, is going to lead a county government that he once said should confine itself to tasks like running the airport and fixing roads. Christopher Christie, the governor-elect of New Jersey, never explained how he plans to cut taxes at a time when New Jersey's budget is battered by the recession.
 Decades of Republican majorities in Nassau County kept taxes down by borrowing and borrowing until the crisis exploded. Mr. Corzine fell into a hole created by the reckless borrowing and tax-cutting of the state's last Republican governor, Christine Todd Whitman.
 Voters in these areas should hope their newly elected leaders don't actually try to keep their promises.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); BONDS (69%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



35 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Pro Hockey Teams Are No Longer a Dollar Short

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and JEFF Z. KLEIN

 BODY:
The decline of the American dollar has led to a trade imbalance north of the border, on the rinks of the National Hockey League. 
 Over the past two decades, the Canadian teams in the N.H.L. were considered poor cousins of their colleagues in the United States. Some floundered financially, others packed up and moved south. The league even created the Canadian Assistance Program to subsidize the country's struggling teams.
 But the landscape in Canada has changed drastically, because of a rise of more than 50 percent in the Canadian dollar since 2002. A stronger currency has made it cheaper for the six Canadian teams to pay their players in United States dollars and to reduce debts. It has also inflated the revenue of the six Canadian franchises and, in turn, the league's revenue. That has hurt some of the weaker teams in the United States by pushing up the minimum amount teams must spend on payroll.
 ''The Canadian teams went from being very weak to the crown jewel in a short period,'' said Rob Tilliss, the founder of Inner Circle Sports, which advises owners and teams. ''There are cycles, of course, but there's enough interest and enthusiasm in Canada that this isn't going to reverse'' anytime soon. 
 The rising Canadian dollar is nearing parity with its United States counterpart. The Canadian dollar, whose value against the United States dollar fell to a low of 62 cents in 2002, is worth about 96 cents today. As a result, the revenues for the six Canadian clubs helped the entire league earn its highest operating profit in more than a decade, according to Forbes magazine.
 Forbes's annual ranking of team valuations, released last month, is headed by the Toronto Maple Leafs, with the Montreal Canadiens and the Vancouver Canucks also in the top 10. Over all, the six Canadian teams' average ranking in the magazine's analysis is 12th in the 30-team league -- a sharp contrast with 2002, when the six Canadian teams averaged 21st.
 On Tuesday, N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman spoke of Canada's renewed economic strength when he said the league was interested in expansion to Winnipeg and Quebec City, cities that lost N.H.L. teams in the 1990s. Bettman, speaking at a the Reuters Global Media Summit, also named southern Ontario as a possible site for expansion.
 The added revenues have had the biggest impact for the Canadian teams with player salaries, which must be paid in American dollars under the collective bargaining agreement between the N.H.L. and the N.H.L. Players' Association. When the United States dollar was strong during the 1990s, Canadian teams had to spend more to meet their payroll. More recently, Canadian teams have been able to buy United States dollars more cheaply.
 The N.H.L. prefers exchange-rate stability, but recognizes that the rising Canadian dollar has helped revive some teams, which is good for the league.
 ''To the extent Canadian-based franchises are much stronger today than they were 10-15 years ago, that can only inure to the overall benefit of the league,'' said Bill Daly, the deputy commissioner of the N.H.L. 
 Some owners in Canada have used their gains in the foreign exchange rate to pay their players, coaches and scouts more, or to cover operating losses. Teams like the Canucks have been able to refurbish their dressing rooms, add club seats in their arena and arrange more comfortable travel schedules for the team.
 In recent years, Canadian teams have become big bidders for on-ice talent. In one instance last summer, the Canucks re-signed the twins Henrik and Daniel Sedin to five-year, $30.5 million contracts.
 The Canadian teams' relative wealth is quite a turnaround, given that the league initiated the Canadian Assistance Program at the start of the 1995-96 season to help small-market Canadian teams stay afloat.
 The program ended when a salary-cap and revenue-sharing model was adopted by the league before 2005-6, in the wake of a lockout that wiped out the previous season.
 Today, several Canadian teams are net contributors to revenue sharing, helping to keep weaker American franchises alive.
 ''The program probably permitted us to stay in business,'' said Ken King, the president and chief executive of the Calgary Flames, referring to the Canadian Assistance Program. ''We were a beneficiary in years past and we respect that we received help.''
 The Flames are now a net contributor to the pool.
 Canadian teams have learned to protect themselves by hedging their bets on swings in foreign exchange rates. This often involves buying contracts to purchase United States dollars at different levels, up to several years in advance. This helps insulate the teams from big changes in the exchange rate. But it also means that the current rise of the Canadian dollar may not translate into a gain for teams, or as large a loss when the Canadian dollar slips.
 The effect of the fluctuating dollar also hits N.H.L. players. Ottawa Senators forwards Mike Fisher and Daniel Alfredsson were with the team early this decade when the Canadian dollar was weak and team finances were shaky. ''Quite a few of us even bought season tickets to help out,'' Alfredsson, the team's captain, said. Fisher said that once the paychecks arrived late. 
 ''We were on thin ice for a few years,'' Alfredsson said.
 A stronger Canadian dollar does not necessarily lead to better performance on the ice. The Senators, for instance, failed to make the playoffs last year for the first time in 12 years and the resulting drop in attendance has offset any gains from the rise in the Canadian dollar.
 Still, Canadian teams have drawn well even though their ticket prices are among the highest in the league. The Canucks, for instance, have sold out 276 consecutive games. The average price of a ticket to see the last-place Maple Leafs is $114.10, the highest in the N.H.L., according to the Team Marketing Report.
 The Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association and the Toronto Blue Jays of Major League Baseball also benefit from the stronger Canadian dollar. But because they are the only Canadian teams in their leagues, they do not affect their leagues' economics in any significant way.
 In hockey, the six Canadian teams account for as much as one-third of the N.H.L.'s revenue, by some estimates.
 Under the collective bargaining agreement, N.H.L. players receive 57 percent of the league's gross revenues. According to several experts on the league's finances, the difference between a Canadian dollar worth 80 cents in the United States and a Canadian dollar that is at par means about $75 million to the players.
 King, the Flames president, sums up the credo that Canadian teams live by.
 ''There are always two absolutes,'' he said. ''Winning is good, and it's always better when the Canadian dollar is stronger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Toronto was No. 1 in a recent valuation of N.H.L. teams. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAUS ANDERSEN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A1)
 The twins Daniel, left, and Henrik Sedin re-signed with the Vancouver Canucks during the off-season for a total of $61 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYLE STAFFORD/REUTERS) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); VANCOUVER CANUCKS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



36 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: A November With Rosier Retail Data

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Despite reports of weaker spending on the Friday after Thanksgiving, the nation's stores appear to have fared much better this November than last year -- when consumers were so spooked by the deteriorating economy that they essentially went into hiding. 
 Data to be published on Wednesday showed sales in November rose in some major retailing categories and fell in others. 
 The top-performing sectors last month were retail e-commerce (up 12.3 percent, compared with November 2008), electronics (up 6.6 percent), jewelry (up 4.6 percent) and appliances (up 3.5 percent), according to SpendingPulse, an information service of MasterCard Advisors. Sales of luxury goods tumbled 7.3 percent, clothing declined 5.7 percent and footwear dipped 2 percent. 
 A clearer picture of the early weeks of the holiday shopping season will emerge on Thursday, when the nation's chains each report their November sales results. Retailing analysts at Thomson Reuters expect stores to post a 2.3 percent sales increase for November, in contrast to a 7.8 percent decline a year ago. 
 Last year on the day after Thanksgiving, known as Black Friday, sales were surprisingly strong in some big retailing categories, like clothing (up 2.7 percent), footwear (up 10.4 percent) and jewelry (up 5.7 percent). Sales in those sectors were about the same as this past Friday, said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse, which estimates sales for all forms of payment, including cash, checks and credit cards. 
 ''It's a somewhat optimistic start, even though the numbers are relatively flat,'' Mr. McNamara said.
 Additionally, the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group, said recent reports about Friday shopping might underestimate November's overall performance because some holiday sales this year happened earlier, on Thanksgiving Day, as more stores offered online deals or opened that day. 
 So far, the electronics sector has been a standout, with sales on Friday up 8 percent year-over-year. The results were helped by releases of video games in November, Mr. McNamara said. For the month of November, sales of electronics climbed 6.6 percent, well above last year, when sales declined 12.9 percent. But in a familiar theme, the improved results were still not as high as the peak in 2007, when sales rose 15.8 percent. 
 ''Electronics and online shopping were the big winners during the launch of the post-Thanksgiving holiday season,'' Michael P. Niemira, the director of research and chief economist for the International Council of Shopping Centers, said in a statement on Tuesday. Indeed, customer traffic at many major consumer electronics retailers was heavy over Thanksgiving weekend, the Consumer Electronics Association said in a news release this week. 
 Sales of appliances were also strong, up 3.5 percent in November, as consumers shopped to replace old or broken household items.
 There was even discretionary spending in less practical sectors, like jewelry. Sales were up 4.6 percent compared with last year, the third consecutive month of growth for that category.
 ''Jewelry had nowhere to go but up,'' Mr. McNamara said, adding that sales in November 2008 plummeted 18.4 percent. In November 2007, sales declined 5.9 percent. The peak for the sector was in 2006, when sales rose 19.5 percent, to $2.6 billion, in contrast to this year's $2.1 billion. Historically, jewelry sales spike at the end of the year.
 ''Jewelry tends to be a very late season surge,'' Mr. McNamara said, adding that the last 10 days of the season are big sales days. 
 Exactly how many consumers hit the stores on Thanksgiving weekend was not clear. The National Retail Federation, a trade group, said on Sunday that 195 million consumers visited stores and Web sites from Thursday to Sunday, up from 172 million last year. A different report, from ShopperTrak, a research and consulting firm, looked at customer traffic on Friday and Saturday and said it declined slightly from last year. 
 Sales this holiday season, typically defined as the combined months of November and December, are expected to be about the same as last Christmas, when retailers posted their worst sales figures in decades. The National Retail Federation estimates holiday sales will decline 1 percent, while the International Council of Shopping Centers estimates sales will increase 1 to 2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers on Fifth Avenue in New York on Friday. (B1)
 A staircase at the Apple Store on Fifth Avenue in New York on Friday. Electronics sales were up 6.6 percent in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOLDMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); LUXURY GOODS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



37 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Credit Helped to Lift Sales of Homes in October

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The number of homes with sales pending reached its highest level in three years in October, as Americans took advantage of a government-financed credit for first-time home buyers. 
 The National Association of Realtors said Tuesday that its pending home sales index rose 3.7 percent in October, the ninth month of gains and a 32 percent increase over the previous year, when the economy was reeling from the financial crisis. Analysts had predicted a 1 percent decline in sales.
 In a separate report, the Institute for Supply Management said manufacturing expanded at a slower rate than expected in November, reinforcing the notion that a pickup in United States factory activity would be tentative as the economy recovered. 
 Meanwhile, a third report from the Commerce Department said construction spending was flat in October at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $910.77 billion. Analysts had predicted a decrease, but a rise in residential spending helped offset losses in commercial spending.
 The relatively sunny reports brought optimism to investors and suggested that the economy in three crucial sectors -- housing, manufacturing and construction -- was on track to a steady, albeit slow, recovery. But economists warned that those sectors could suffer further setbacks as governments gradually reduced stimulus efforts.
 In particular, economists said, the housing market still faced significant challenges. They attributed the large gains in October to consumers rushing to take advantage of a government credit of up to $8,000 for first-time home buyers before it expired at the end of November. Now that the credit has been extended through April, analysts expect next month's data on home sales will not register nearly as much growth.
 Patrick Newport, an economist at IHS Global Insight, played down the relevance of the gains in pending home sales, which took the index to its highest level since March 2006.
 ''What the credit did was distort the data by shifting sales from one period to another,'' he said. ''Fundamentally, the housing market still has a lot of problems, and I don't think we'll see sales start picking up on a sustained basis until late next year.''
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of manufacturing activity in November fell to 53.6 from 55.7 in October, short of the forecast of 55. A reading above 50 signals expansion. The report showed signs of future growth, as new orders increased in November. Inventories continued to decrease, but production was less robust than in October.
 The revival of manufacturing is considered crucial to pulling the economy out of a steep downturn. Cliff Waldman, an economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, said the report suggested factory output would grow at a slower rate after increasing rapidly in the third quarter. 
 ''The clear turn in the U.S. and global economies has pulled manufacturing out of a deep slump,'' he said. ''But a deleveraging U.S. consumer and an uneven global economic recovery will make it difficult for U.S. factory output to grow at the rate that is needed to absorb historic excess capacity anytime soon.''
 Analysts had expected construction spending to fall slightly in October. It held steady in part because the government had revised its September data and recorded a 1.6 percent decrease in spending rather than a 0.8 percent increase. Excluding residential improvements, which are difficult to estimate, spending fell 1.1 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A roofer in Maine. The Commerce Department said construction spending was flat in October
 analysts had predicted a decrease. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); NEW ORDERS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



38 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: California to Use Deflation In Assessing Property Taxes

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Long used to manageable property tax bills, California homeowners have been lamenting over the last few years that their assessments did not reflect the enormous slide in the value of so many homes here. 
 Now, for the first time in more than 30 years -- since a law was enacted limiting the amount property taxes could rise -- property tax bills will reflect negative price inflation, reducing most homeowners' tax bills come January. 
 Under Proposition 13, the state's signature ballot measure passed in 1978, property assessments were brought to 1975 levels and annual tax increases were capped at 2 percent. Exceptions were made, and values reset, for properties that were sold or those where the living area was increased. 
 In all but five years since Proposition 13 was passed, the annual increase was the maximum allowable 2 percent, according to the State Board of Equalization. The board's preliminary estimate, based on the Consumer Price Index, set deflation at 0.237 percent, which translates to a decline in taxes owed of roughly $2.60 per $100,000 in assessed value for most homeowners. 
 Those homeowners whose property values have not fallen, or whose tax rates already reflected fallen value, will not receive an additional break. 
 Across the state, property tax bills have continued to rise over the past few years, even as the housing market has fallen precipitously. While homeowners will probably cheer, schools around the state, which are already facing a budget crisis, are likely to take another hit because some of their money comes from property tax revenues.
 ''This is really a reflection of the full effect of the housing market crisis,'' said Betty T. Yee, a board member representing numerous counties in Northern California. ''It will be welcome news for a lot of California homeowners.'' 
 In terms of money for education, Ms. Yee added, ''I would suspect there will be more pressure on the state's general fund.'' 
 It is unclear whether this assessment will be a one-time blip or the first in a series of similar hallmarks of the state's outsized housing bust, Ms. Yee said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); DEFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); INFLATION (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); BALLOTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



39 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Fire Department to Reduce Crew Sizes on Pumpers to Limit Overtime Pay

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
With hundreds of city firefighters out of work every day for medical problems ranging from broken bones to more serious illnesses, the Fire Department is moving to reduce staffing at 49 engine companies in the five boroughs, city officials said Tuesday. 
 Officials say the change, to take effect at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, is prompted by a provision in the labor contract that allows the city to reduce staffing when the average number of firefighters on medical leave citywide reaches a certain percentage over a 12-month period. In doing so, the city can avoid paying overtime to firefighters to keep engine companies at agreed-upon staffing levels.
 The move immediately ignited a new round of debate over an issue that has long been a source of contention between the department and the Uniformed Firefighters Association, the union that represents the city's 8,800 rank-and-file firefighters. It is the third time since 2003 that the department has cut staffing at engine companies -- a condition that usually lasts a few months, until sick firefighters return to work. The average number of firefighters out sick each day during the last three weeks has ranged from 500 to 700.
 ''They are clearly spoiling for a fight on staffing and firehouse closings,'' said Stephen J. Cassidy, the union's president, who held a news conference on Tuesday afternoon to denounce the city's decision. 
 The 49 engine companies affected have five firefighters per shift and will lose one. Fifteen companies in the Bronx, 14 in Brooklyn, 12 in Manhattan, 7 in Queens and one on Staten Island are affected. Of the other 145 engine companies in the city, 134 are already staffed with four firefighters. The remaining 11 are always staffed with five firefighters, regardless of the medical leave numbers, because their members provide daily backup to companies whose firefighters call in sick.
 Ladder companies, in contrast, are staffed with five firefighters at all times. But Mr. Cassidy warned of reduced staffing at ladder companies as well if the number of those on medical leave in the engine companies outpaces those on hand to fill in for them. With the medical leave numbers rising for months, Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta, who is leaving at year's end, is exercising his discretion to reduce staffing at the 7.5 percent threshold. The contract mandates such cuts when the rate reaches 7.6 percent, officials said.
 ''Increased medical leave is costing us more in overtime, and we're going to do everything we can to be fiscally prudent in these difficult economic times,'' Mr. Scoppetta said in a statement.
 Mr. Cassidy contended that a minimum of five firefighters per engine company was essential for the health and safety of firefighters and the public. The union also suggested that the prevalence of swine flu had driven the sick rate higher than normal, but the department said those numbers were negligible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); OVERTIME (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SICK LEAVE (89%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); CITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); INFLUENZA (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



40 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: World Cup Draw Portends More Peril Than Promise

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The euphoria from beating Spain in the Confederations Cup in June has long since faded for the United States men's soccer team. Maybe there should not have been all that much euphoria in the first place. 
 Now the United States is back to reality -- a back-bencher in the global parliament called the World Cup. The United States will get its assignments on Friday at the tournament draw in South Africa, where the World Cup is to be staged next June and July. 
 The possibilities cover a vast range from favorable to disastrous. But given where the United States rates in world soccer -- except when American-based sponsorship and television money kicks in -- American fans had better prepare for disastrous. 
 Tough draws are a quadrennial tradition for the lads, who have been eliminated after group play in three of their five consecutive World Cups. It could happen again. 
 ''The draw is pretty darn important,'' said Sunil Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation, before he got on a plane on Tuesday to head to Cape Town for the draw, which will be shown on ESPN starting at noon Eastern on Friday.
 Gulati, who teaches economics at Columbia University and knows how to analyze spreadsheets with the best of them, has been charting all the variables for the draw, which will be based on a formula to be announced Wednesday by world soccer's governing body, known as FIFA. Yes, the United States defeated Spain, the top-ranked squad in the world, 2-0 in a semifinal of the Confederations Cup in South Africa on June 24. It was a wonderful game, memorable, but also deserving of a large asterisk. Spain's players had just finished their brutal club seasons in Europe; the Confederations Cup is, sorry, a secondary competition. 
 At the time, I wrote that this victory should ensure the United States a higher ranking than its regional rival, Mexico, in the next World Cup, but given the framework of the draw, the upset in the summer really does not matter. 
 The United States is ranked 14th in the world, and Mexico 15th, according to the monthly FIFA rankings, which sometimes do not reflect the actual strength of secondary European squads.
 If the teams were seeded according to ranking, the United States would be in a second tier, with two tiers of theoretically lesser teams below it. But that is not going to happen. Instead, FIFA will come up with four tiers based considerably on performances in recent World Cups, but also on other factors, including geography. Geography could help the United States or geography could murder the United States.
 The top tier is fairly automatic -- South Africa, the host, ranked 86th in the world, and seven powerhouses: let's assume Spain, Brazil, Italy, Germany and Argentina, then the last two coming from among England, Portugal, the Netherlands and France. 
 (France will carry the scarlet letter H for Handball into the World Cup, given the blatant swat by Thierry Henry that set up the goal that cheated Ireland and enabled France to qualify in the final seconds of a playoff last month. Wouldn't it be interessant if France was put in the top tier, and thereby given an easier ride toward the second round?)
 A second tier will include eight European squads -- probably France or the Netherlands, Portugal or England, Greece, Switzerland, Serbia, Denmark, Slovenia and Slovakia. 
 The United States, Mexico and Honduras would then be plopped into one tier with five African teams or another tier with the Asian teams. Three South American teams would be in the opposite tier. The African teams cannot meet South Africa, which is where the United States could catch a break.
 ''If that happened, we would have a one-in-three chance of meeting South Africa,'' Gulati said, no disrespect intended.
 The possibilities swing wildly. The United States could wind up with a draw of, let's say, Greece, South Africa and Chile. Or it could wind up with Brazil or Spain, France or the Netherlands, and Ivory Coast. 
 Tough draws are nothing new for the United States Despite reaching the quarterfinals in 2002, with a dashing victory over Mexico and an unlucky loss to Germany, the United States was not placed in the top eight in the draw for 2006 because it performed so poorly in the 1998 World Cup in France. It wound up losing to the Czech Republic, gallantly drawing Italy and losing to Ghana. And going home.
 There is no indication the United States is ready for another quarterfinal run. The stirring victory over Spain is ancient history. Gulati points to the 3-2 victory in Honduras -- a tough place to get points -- in October as a sign of American skill and resolve. The United States has traditionally not done well against European squads, but Gulati notes that exhibition losses in Denmark and in Slovakia in November were played without Landon Donovan and other mainstays. Jozy Altidore, however, is rusting on the bench for Hull City in England, and Oguchi Onyewu and Charlie Davies are injured and Davies will probably not be ready for the World Cup. 
 Those three matches next June -- three Super Bowls in little more than a week -- will be watched by midday congregations in public places all over the United States. In 2006, Yanks in pubs were screaming at large-screen sets. Friday's draw will determine the advance mood between hopeful and desperate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The injured U.S. defender Oguchi Onyewu is in a race to be fit for the World Cup in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX LIVESEY/GETTY IMAGES) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); RANKINGS (86%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (55%); FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



41 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: New Nets Arena Wins Another Court Challenge

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The developer Bruce C. Ratner won another court challenge to his $1 billion basketball arena in Brooklyn on Tuesday, just as he began the sale of the bonds for the long-delayed project.
 The financial underpinnings of the project, the cornerstone of the 22-acre Atlantic Yards development, also emerged on Tuesday when two rating agencies assigned an investment grade rating for $646 million in bonds for the project. In addition, the developer and his partners will use a $131 million subsidy from the Bloomberg administration and invest $293.4 million of their own to build the 18,282-seat arena at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues.
 Mr. Ratner, who is already doing construction work on portions of the site, plans to start selling the bonds this month and to take possession of the entire property early next year. The arena is expected to be completed by June 2012, when the New Jersey Nets would move from East Rutherford, N.J., to Brooklyn. 
 At the same time, the Court of Appeals declined to hear an appeal from some property owners who said the state's decision to condemn their land would benefit a private developer, rather than the general public, as required by the New York Constitution. Last week, the Court of Appeals ruled six to one that the state could exercise eminent domain in claiming businesses, public property and private homes for economic development projects like Atlantic Yards.
 Still, the project's opponents, who have filed three other lawsuits, vowed to continue their fight. ''We wonder who will buy this garbage,'' Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, said of the project's bonds. ''There is no business plan to pay off the debt. The rating agencies have lost a lot of credibility. ''
 Mr. Ratner, chief executive of Forest City Ratner, which was the development partner for the Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company, and his underwriters, Goldman Sachs, plan to start marketing the bonds this week. In the meantime, he is trying to obtain bond insurance, which would presumably provide a lower interest rate and make the bonds that much more desirable to investors. 
 Both Moody's Investor Services and Standard & Poor's assigned their lowest investment-grade rating to the bonds, although it is the same rating that was given to similar bonds for the new Yankee Stadium in the Bronx and for Citi Field in Queens.
 The developer plans to sell $500 million in tax-exempt bonds and, separately, another $146 million in subordinated debt. The revenues to pay the bonds would come from the sale of luxury boxes, premium seats, advertising and sponsorships, as well as ticket revenues and concessions. Barclays Bank has already signed a $20 million-a-year naming-rights deal for the arena, which will be called Barclays Center.
 Both rating agencies highlighted the city's commitment to the project, but noted the weak financial condition of the Nets, and the uncertainty, given the recession, of predicting revenues from premium seating and sponsorships. Mr. Ratner recently signed a deal to sell an 80 percent stake in the Nets to the Russian billionaire Mikhail D. Prokhorov, who would cover the team's operating expenses for the next several years.
 Moody's said it did not anticipate that the remaining three lawsuits would be a problem. 
 ''The lawsuits are not an issue as far as the rating is concerned,'' said Rick Donner, a vice president at Moody's. ''The rating assumes that the lawsuits will be settled and that the project will move forward. The proceeds of the bond issuance will be held in escrow until vacant possession is obtained, which basically means that the lawsuits have been settled and the sponsors have possession.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BONDS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MARKETING PLAN (74%); TAX LAW (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); APPEALS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (91%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (64%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



42 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Before Audience of Cadets, A Sobering Message of War

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
In 2007, President George W. Bush stood framed by an array of books to inform the nation that he was sending additional troops to Iraq.
 Last night, President Obama surrounded himself with West Point cadets.
 Mr. Obama traveled to the United States Military Academy to announce the most critical military decision of his presidency so far: he is sending 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan and setting a time frame for withdrawal beginning in July 2011. Like many a predecessor, Mr. Obama sought a setting that would burnish his bona fides.
 Yet what was striking about Mr. Obama's live television appearance on Tuesday night was his constraint. He stood on a stark stage, alone, not flanked by generals in gleaming medals, and addressed cadets seated far below him in tidy rows. At the close of his address, Mr. Obama stepped down and shook cadets' hands, but he did not lose himself in the crowd for long. 
 His speech was sobering, and so was his manner. Mr. Obama may be the one president of the television age who can make a star turn at West Point look like a graduate seminar at Yale.
 His body language was as restrained as his promises; he spoke without fanciful flights or filigree. In short, Mr. Obama projected all the caution and sober consideration that he suggested his predecessor had thrown to the winds. 
 ''Then, in early 2003, the decision was made to wage a second war in Iraq. The wrenching debate over the Iraq war is well-known and need not be repeated here,'' Mr. Obama said, before repeating some of the main criticisms of the Bush administration's handling of Iraq. ''Today, after extraordinary costs, we are bringing the Iraq war to a responsible end.'' 
 Presidents often use the Oval Office or a joint session of Congress for major announcements, but some speeches call for more creative scene-setting. Often, presidential stagecraft is subliminally used to answer critics.
 Mr. Bush -- who was accused of rashly rushing to war in Iraq, and of prematurely claiming victory wearing a flight suit aboard the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln -- sought to project wisdom and prolonged reflection about the 2007 surge by standing in front of a White House bookcase crammed with weighty tomes.
 Mr. Obama, who has been hammered by Republicans, including former Vice President Dick Cheney, who say he has dithered like an academic, chose the Army's elite training school to signal his martial spirit and respect for men and women in uniform.
 He is by no means the first president to wrap himself in the pageantry and patriotism of a military milieu. President Bill Clinton spoke at West Point in 1993. And Mr. Bush went to West Point several times in his presidency, including for a graduation speech in 2002 in which he discussed the war on terrorism. 
 As a candidate, Mr. Bush delivered his first foreign policy address in 1999 at the Citadel military college in South Carolina (there, he vowed to put an end to Clinton-era foreign interventions, saying, ''Sending our military on vague, aimless and endless deployments is the swift solvent of morale.''). 
 Mr. Obama is also not the first commander in chief to inherit -- and continue -- a predecessor's war, but his rhetoric was strikingly more downbeat than that of previous wartime presidents.
 ''In the wake of an economic crisis, too many of our friends and neighbors are out of work and struggle to pay the bills, and too many Americans are worried about the future facing our children,'' he said. ''Meanwhile, competition within the global economy has grown more fierce. So we simply cannot afford to ignore the price of these wars.'' 
 In a State of the Union address in 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson said just the opposite: ''But we will not permit those who fire upon us in Vietnam to win a victory over the desires and the intentions of all the American people. This nation is mighty enough, its society is healthy enough, its people are strong enough, to pursue our goals in the rest of the world while still building a Great Society here at home.''
 All presidents say that their war will not drag on forever; they just find their own way of saying it. Mr. Obama said the country's troop commitment would not be open-ended ''because the nation that I am most interested in building is our own.'' 
 President Johnson promised in his speech about the Gulf of Tonkin in 1964: ''Our response, for the present, will be limited and fitting. We Americans know, although others appear to forget, the risks of spreading conflict. We still seek no wider war.''
 All presidents seek to improve on history. But history has a way of getting the better of even the best intentions. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bush announced a troop increase from the White House library, while President Obama opted for West Point. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ARMIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



43 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: This I Believe

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Let me start with the bottom line and then tell you how I got there: I can't agree with President Obama's decision to escalate in Afghanistan. I'd prefer a minimalist approach, working with tribal leaders the way we did to overthrow the Taliban regime in the first place. Given our need for nation-building at home right now, I am ready to live with a little less security and a little-less-perfect Afghanistan. 
 I recognize that there are legitimate arguments on the other side. At a lunch on Tuesday for opinion writers, the president lucidly argued that opting for a surge now to help Afghans rebuild their army and state into something decent -- to win the allegiance of the Afghan people -- offered the only hope of creating an ''inflection point,'' a game changer, to bring long-term stability to that region. May it be so. What makes me wary about this plan is how many moving parts there are -- Afghans, Pakistanis and NATO allies all have to behave forever differently for this to work. 
 But here is the broader context in which I assess all this: My own foreign policy thinking since 9/11 has been based on four pillars:
 1. The Warren Buffett principle: Everything I've ever gotten in life is largely due to the fact that I was born in this country, America, at this time with these opportunities for its citizens. It is the primary obligation of our generation to turn over a similar America to our kids.
 2. Many big bad things happen in the world without America, but not a lot of big good things. If we become weak and enfeebled by economic decline and debt, as we slowly are, America may not be able to play its historic stabilizing role in the world. If you didn't like a world of too-strong-America, you will really not like a world of too-weak-America -- where China, Russia and Iran set more of the rules.
 3. The context within which people live their lives shapes everything -- from their political outlook to their religious one. The reason there are so many frustrated and angry people in the Arab-Muslim world, lashing out first at their own governments and secondarily at us -- and volunteering for ''martyrdom'' -- is because of the context within which they live their lives. That was best summarized by the U.N.'s Arab Human Development reports as a context dominated by three deficits: a deficit of freedom, a deficit of education and a deficit of women's empowerment. The reason India, with the world's second-largest population of Muslims, has a thriving Muslim minority (albeit with grievances but with no prisoners in Guantanamo Bay) is because of the context of pluralism and democracy it has built at home. 
 4. One of the main reasons the Arab-Muslim world has been so resistant to internally driven political reform is because vast oil reserves allow its regimes to become permanently ensconced in power, by just capturing the oil tap, and then using the money to fund vast security and intelligence networks that quash any popular movement. Look at Iran.
 Hence, post-9/11 I advocated that our politicians find sufficient courage to hike gasoline taxes and seriously commit ourselves to developing alternatives to oil. Economists agree that this would ultimately bring down the global price, and slowly deprive these regimes of the sole funding source that allows them to maintain their authoritarian societies. People do not change when we tell them they should; they change when their context tells them they must. 
 To me, the most important reason for the Iraq war was never W.M.D. It was to see if we could partner with Iraqis to help them build something that does not exist in the modern Arab world: a state, a context, where the constituent communities -- Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds -- write their own social contract for how to live together without an iron fist from above. Iraq has proved staggeringly expensive and hugely painful. The mistakes we made should humble anyone about nation-building in Afghanistan. It does me.
 Still, the Iraq war may give birth to something important -- if Iraqis can find that self-sustaining formula to live together. Alas, that is still in doubt. If they can, the model would have a huge impact on the Arab world. Baghdad is a great Arab capital. If Iraqis fail, it's religious strife, economic decline and authoritarianism as far as the eye can see -- the witch's brew that spawns terrorists.
 Iraq was about ''the war on terrorism.'' The Afghanistan invasion, for me, was about the ''war on terrorists.'' To me, it was about getting bin Laden and depriving Al Qaeda of a sanctuary -- period. I never thought we could make Afghanistan into Norway -- and even if we did, it would not resonate beyond its borders the way Iraq might.
 To now make Afghanistan part of the ''war on terrorism'' -- i.e., another nation-building project -- is not crazy. It is just too expensive, when balanced against our needs for nation-building in America, so that we will have the strength to play our broader global role. Hence, my desire to keep our presence in Afghanistan limited. That is what I believe. That is why I believe it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); RELIGION (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



44 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Central Bank Provides Short-Term Loans

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Bowing to government pressure, Japan's central bank said Tuesday it would pump short-term funds into the country's banking system in a renewed bid to revive lending and breathe life into the moribund economy.
 But the Bank of Japan refused to increase its purchases of government bonds and engage in full-blown ''quantitative easing,'' as called for by government officials. The measured response raised questions about whether the central bank, reluctant to take orders from politicians on monetary policy, was merely maneuvering to get government officials off its back.
 Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama has repeatedly warned that the return of deflation and a surging currency could halt the country's economic recovery. The yen climbed to a 14-year high last week, with $1 buying 84.83 yen, dealing a blow to Japanese exporters, whose goods become more expensive in foreign markets. 
 Meanwhile, prices and wages have slumped, raising fears of a prolonged and painful bout of deflation that could drag Japan's economy back into contraction. The country is still reeling from its deepest recession in decades, brought on by the collapse in world trade that came with the global economic crisis.
 At a hastily called emergency meeting Tuesday, the Bank of Japan's board voted to provide 10 trillion yen ($115 billion) in short-term loans to commercial banks to bolster liquidity. The loans will carry a fixed interest rate of 0.1 percent, and the bank said it would accept commercial paper, or short-term corporate debt, as well as government and corporate bonds as collateral. The bank kept its benchmark short-term interest rate unchanged at 0.1 percent.
 ''While Japan's economy is picking up, there is not yet sufficient momentum to support self-sustaining recovery,'' the central bank said. ''The bank has judged that, in supporting the economic recovery from the financial side, it is most effective at present to further spread the strong effects of monetary easing.'' 
 While some analysts questioned how much effect the bank's move would have on the economy, Mr. Hatoyama said he was satisfied, for now.
 ''I applaud their efforts to show their resolve to stop deflation and spur the economy,'' he said.
 The Bank of Japan's decision bucks a trend among monetary authorities around the globe to start scaling back emergency measures like rock-bottom interest rates. The moves also show the precarious state of the recovery of Japan's economy, second in size only to that of the United States.
 Australia, whose economy has rebounded rapidly this year, raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point on Tuesday for a third straight month. And in Washington, the Federal Reserve said Monday it would begin testing a strategy to shrink its trillion-dollar portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and eventually wind down its program to prop up financial markets.
 Still, Dubai's announcement last week that its investment arm was seeking to delay payments on its $59 billion in debt has led to renewed jitters among some global investors. Concerns over the financial health of the formerly cash-rich emirate have also sparked a flight to currencies that are considered havens, including the yen. 
 The yen declined Tuesday on expectations that the central bank would take bold steps to counteract the currency's appreciation. In late New York trading, the dollar bought 86.65 yen, compared with 86.29 on Monday. The Nikkei 225 share average rallied 2.4 percent before the bank's decision was announced on hopes that a respite from the strong yen would help exporters' shares. 
 The Bank of Japan had initially expressed doubt over the need to inject additional liquidity into the economy, pointing to stabilizing consumer prices and falling unemployment as signs of recovery. But as exporters' stock prices sank recently, demands from government ministers for action by the central bank reached a fever pitch. 
 With interest rates already near zero, however, the bank has few options. 
 By providing a new lending facility, the central bank hopes to pump more money into banks to encourage them to increase lending to the troubled corporate sector.
 The central bank is eager ''to show that any policy change is taken with the initiative of the Bank of Japan, not by political pressure,'' Masaaki Kanno, an economist at J. P. Morgan Securities Japan, wrote in a note on Tuesday.
 Demands by officials for more action from the central bank reflect the government's own lack of options. Saddled with a public debt approaching twice the size of its gross domestic product, Japan has limited room for stimulus.
 This week, Mr. Hatoyama is set to announce a budget that will greatly exceed an initial estimate given by officials of 2.7 trillion yen. But much of the package will be a mere reshuffling of programs promised by the previous government, and its effect on the economy is likely to be small, analysts say.
 Moreover, Mr. Hatoyama, whose Democratic Party won a landslide election victory in August, has promised to reduce wasteful public spending. While such a pledge is popular, cutting public works with the economy so fragile could hamper any recovery. 
 The government is therefore leaning increasingly on the central bank.
 ''We cannot resolve all our economic woes, especially those in our financial system, with short-term fiscal spending,'' said Naoto Kan, deputy prime minister and state minister for national strategy. ''These two pillars must more closely integrate their actions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The yen eased on Tuesday after surging to a 14-year high last week. The strong currency has hurt Japanese exporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



45 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2086 words

HEADLINE: New Hopes on Health Care for American Indians

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
The meeting last month was a watershed: the leaders of 564 American Indian tribes were invited to Washington to talk with cabinet members and President Obama, who called it ''the largest and most widely attended gathering of tribal leaders in our history.'' 
 Topping the list of their needs was better health care. 
 ''Native Americans die of illnesses like tuberculosis, alcoholism, diabetes, pneumonia and influenza at far higher rates,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We're going to have to do more to address disparities in health care delivery.'' 
 The health care overhaul now being debated in Congress appears poised to bring the most significant improvements to the Indian health system in decades. After months of negotiations, provisions under consideration could, over time, direct streams of money to the Indian health care system and give Indians more treatment options. 
 Some proposals, like exempting Indians from penalties for not obtaining insurance, may meet resistance from lawmakers opposed to expanding benefits for Indians, many of whom receive free medical care.
 But advocates say the changes recognize Indians' unique status and could ease what Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, calls ''full-scale health care rationing going on on Indian reservations.''
 ''We've got the 'first Americans' living in third world conditions,'' Mr. Dorgan said. 
 Mr. Obama has emphasized Indian issues more than most presidents. He campaigned on reservations, created a senior policy adviser for Native American affairs and appointed Kimberly Teehee, a Cherokee, to the post, and gave Indians other high-ranking positions.
 He has proposed a budget increase of 13 percent for the federal Indian Health Service, which provides free care to 1.9 million Indians who belong to federally recognized tribes, most of whom live on tribally owned land. The service, which had a budget this year of $3.3 billion, has also received $500 million in stimulus money for construction, repairs and equipment. 
 ''This new administration has been much more positive,'' said W. Ron Allen, chairman of the Jamestown S'Klallam tribe in Washington State and treasurer of the National Congress of American Indians, adding that the Congressional proposals provide ''a very impressive opportunity to close the gap in Indian health care.'' 
 On Thursday, the Senate Indian Affairs Committee is scheduled to discuss other Indian health issues that could end up in the overhaul bill.
 Indians could benefit from broader overhaul programs for low-income and uninsured citizens, but they do not want to relinquish the health care they claim as a historical right. 
 ''Indian people have given up a lot,'' said Dr. Yvette Roubideaux, director of the Indian Health Service. ''They really feel like they have, in a sense, prepaid for this health care with loss of land, natural resources, loss of culture.''
 'List Goes On and On'
 In the vast, varied territory called Indian Country, health care is stung with struggle. 
 Too few doctors. Too little equipment. Hospitals and clinics miles of hardscrabble road away. 
 In cities, where over half of the country's roughly 3 million Indians now live (and nearly 5 million including part-Indians), only 34 programs get Indian Health Service funding, providing mostly basic care and arranging more advanced care and coverage elsewhere. 
 While some Indians have private insurance, often through employers or tribal businesses like casinos, a third are uninsured and a quarter live in poverty. By all accounts, the Indian Health Service is substantially underfunded.
 Money shortages, bureaucracy and distance can delay treatment of even serious conditions for months, even years. 
 Many Indians face multiple roadblocks. 
 Joanna Quotskuyva's breast cancer did not require a mastectomy, but she chose to have surgery because radiation would mean months of driving five hours round-trip from her home on the Hopi reservation in Kykotsmovi, Ariz. 
 Many make similar choices, because ''unfortunately, we don't have the capability,'' said Dr. Joachim Chino, chief of surgery at the nearest hospital, the Tuba City Regional Health Care Corporation. Treating large swaths of the Hopi and Navajo reservations -- the Navajo alone is the size of West Virginia -- is inherently difficult. 
 Despite its dedicated medical staff, the hospital struggles ''to bring, right here, appropriate state-of-the-art, specialty, critical-care medicine,'' said Joseph Engelken, the hospital's chief executive.
 While the Indian health system has improved nationally and Indians are living longer, Dr. Roubideaux acknowledged problems, not all from underfunding, saying, ''The list goes on and on in terms of areas that need improvement.'' 
 Sometimes urgent ''life or limb'' cases get attention, while others, some serious, must wait. 
 Dr. David Yost, clinical director at the White Mountain Apache reservation in Arizona, cited ''piles of care we have to put on the back burner,'' including 150 cases this summer, some ''waiting a year and a half.'' This budget year, he said, 40 patients are still waiting, and about ''10 people a month'' are added to the list. 
 Ronnye Manuelito, 56, a Navajo in Naschitti, N.M., said he ''almost felt like giving up'' after waiting for brain surgery to quell blackouts, seizures and headaches experienced over three years from a shifting metal plate in his head from a childhood carousel injury.
 One time he ''left the stove on in the kitchen and passed out,'' and another he had a seizure in a car, said his sister, Brenda. His Indian Health Service doctor ''was trying to get him a referral to a specialist in Albuquerque, but they weren't approving it because it wasn't life-or-limb,'' she said.
 Ultimately, two surgical procedures helped him. 
 Dr. Roubideaux, speaking generally, said, ''There are some places where funding is so short and there are so few health care providers, unfortunately people may have to wait quite a long time.'' 
 A former reservation doctor herself, Dr. Roubideaux said she would see ''someone who maybe had chronic knee pain and a little bit of surgery would help, yet the person was still walking,'' making it non-life-threatening. ''It's really heartbreaking,'' she said. 
 In cities, scarce Indian facilities and patchwork insurance can mean ''a woman with a lump in her breast -- we can't guarantee we can get her into treatment in a reasonable period,'' said Ralph Forquera, the executive director of the nonprofit Seattle Indian Health Board. ''A cardiac problem? We can't guarantee that person can get to see a specialist.''
 Sometimes, Mr. Forquera said, when that woman is treated, ''the lump has metastasized.'' He added, ''We've had people actually die on waiting lists.''
 Jackie BirdChief, 46, a single mother with thyroid cancer, did not have to wait. She just had to move 200 miles from Phoenix to the Apache reservation she left in 1983, leaving her city, her job and, for months, her daughter, then 14. She moved because cost containment rules link coverage for care to establishing residency on reservations. 
 Ms. BirdChief, a secretary, was lucky because the Indian Health Service, her employer, ''manipulated the system to make it work out for her,'' Dr. Yost said. It found her jobs on the reservation, he said, ''whereas someone working in a grocery store would have had to quit their job -- or decide if they wanted to have the procedure.'' 
 Still, Dr. Yost said, Ms. BirdChief ''was a victim of our system, and ironically, she worked for the Indian health system.'' 
 Living on a reservation, however, does not ensure accessible care. 
 Ruby Biakeddy's six-sided hogan, a traditional Navajo home, without running water or a phone, is an hour's drive on a dirt road from drinking water, and even farther from diabetes and blood pressure medication. Since her truck got swept away in a rain-swollen ditch five years ago, Ms. Biakeddy, 67, who tends sheep, must borrow her children's vehicles. 
 ''I recently ran out of the medicine I inject for a week,'' she said in Navajo through a translator.
 Serious cases, where getting care within the ''golden hour'' after problems start is critical, can also suffer. ''For many of our patients,'' said Dr. Anne Newland, acting clinical director of a clinic in Kayenta, Ariz., ''that hour is gone by the time they get to us.'' 
 Ciara Antone, 4, died on the Navajo reservation outside Tuba City from an apparent bowel obstruction. Her mother, Genita Yazzie, called 911, but said that with the distance and road conditions, the ambulance was two hours away. 
 ''I kept telling the dispatcher, 'My daughter's coding, she's not breathing,' '' Ms. Yazzie said. Desperate, she drove to the closer Hopi reservation to get an ambulance, but by then, ''they couldn't bring her back.''
 Whether a closer ambulance could have saved her daughter is unclear (the family has sued the non-Indian hospital that treated her). Henry Wallace, director of Navajo Emergency Medical Services, which Ms. Yazzie called first for an ambulance, declined to discuss the case, but said, ''the geographic area is so large that the time factor is probably the biggest problem we have.''
 ''We really don't have a golden hour,'' he said. ''Ours could be the golden three hours.''
 Staffing shortages exacerbate things. Recently, Kayenta began closing its emergency room overnight, making Tuba City, at 90 minutes away, the closest hospital. At Indian hospitals and clinics nationally, a fifth of physician positions and a quarter of the nursing slots are unfilled.
 Patients contribute to the frustrations. Nearly a third do not show up for scheduled surgery at Tuba City, often citing distance or cost. 
 Richard White, 61, acknowledged taking his medicine sporadically and drinking, aggravating his diabetes. He went blind, lost a toe and, during a Navajo medicine-man ceremony that he hoped would restore his vision, burned his other foot, which was then amputated. 
 ''Stare at these incredible statistics, you become overwhelmed,'' Dr. Yost said. ''It's like drinking out of a fire hydrant.''
 Keeping a Promise
 Congress's goal, in using penalty and co-payment exemptions, is to encourage Indians to enroll in proposed programs like subsidized private insurance or expanded Medicaid, while respecting their sovereignty and the conviction that they are owed health care. 
 That conviction and bureaucratic hurdles have kept many eligible Indians from enrolling in Medicaid. But getting insurance allows Indians to receive care from more providers and allows the Indian system to get reimbursed from Medicaid or other insurers. 
 That would generate ''an influx of capital,'' said Jim Roberts, policy analyst for Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board, that ''you can use to improve Indian health care.'' 
 Some disagree. Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, said exemptions could discourage insurance enrollment, raise premiums for insured people and further stress the Indian health care system, which he called ''poorly managed'' and in need of billions of dollars to ''keep the promise to Native Americans.''
 Even if more Indians become insured, it will not end the problems, especially if providers and insurers, daunted by the alarming health problems, continue avoiding Indian Country. 
 Proposed legislation would not give Indians everything they want, but the overhaul does include grants for preventive care and research. And the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which stands a good chance of being reauthorized by Congress for the first time since 2001, would enhance programs, physician recruitment and hospital construction. Although it approves no funding, advocates hope it will prompt additional money. 
 Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, said that with the current climate in Congress, and ''particularly the president, it's definitely going to be easier to get Indian provisions in the health care bills.'' 
 Easier, but no sure thing. 
 With expansions in public coverage or subsidies to buy private coverage, some lawmakers may question whether Indian Country should ''still be getting direct payments to run I.H.S. clinics,'' said Stephen Zuckerman, a health economist at the Urban Institute, a research group. 
 ''Some people are saying, 'We can't make all these adjustments for you guys,' '' Mr. Allen said, adding that some Indians reply: ''Make us pay for health care, then the deal is off. Give us the land back, and we're good.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Genita Yazzie's daughter died while waiting for an ambulance. (pg.A1)
 Richard White, at home in Tuba City, Ariz., lost a toe on his left foot to diabetes, then most of his right foot after burning it in a Navajo healing ceremony. Top, the vast Navajo reservation is the size of West Virginia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) CHART: DISPARITIES IN HEALTH CARE: Native Americans are more likely to die from accidents, diabetes, alcoholism and a range of other causes than other Americans. Medical problems can be aggravated by poverty, lack of insurance, limited access to health care and the remoteness of some reservations. (Source: Indian Health Service) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); INFLUENZA (71%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); PNEUMONIA (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); DIABETES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BYRON DORGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



46 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Two Messages For Two Sides

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama went before the nation on Tuesday night to announce that he would escalate the war in Afghanistan. And Mr. Obama went before the nation to announce that he had a plan to end the war in Afghanistan.
 If the contrasting messages seemed jarring at first, they reflect the obstacles Mr. Obama faces in rallying an increasingly polarized country that itself is of two minds about what to do in Afghanistan. For those who still support the war, he is sending more troops. For those against it, he is offering the assurance of the exit ramp.
 He used language intended to appeal to different parts of the spectrum, at times echoing former President George W. Bush in reasserting America's moral authority in the world while repudiating what he sees as the mistakes of the Bush years and insisting that ''America has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan.'' He tried to persuade people on both sides of the divide -- and a Congress that must finance the war -- to swallow their misgivings and come together long enough to see if his strategy works. 
 ''It is easy to forget that when this war began, we were united,'' he told a national television audience from the United States Military Academy at West Point, evoking the memory of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, organized from Afghan soil. ''I refuse to accept the notion that we cannot summon that unity again. I believe with every fiber of my being that we, as Americans, can still come together behind a common purpose.''
 Yet his answer to perhaps the most vexing decision to confront him yet in his presidency is one that may frustrate both sides more than it satisfies them, as suggested by the initial reaction. ''The way that you win wars is you break the enemy's will, not announce when you are leaving,'' Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, said Tuesday before meeting with Mr. Obama at the White House, where he delivered much the same message in person. 
 Norman Solomon, national co-chairman of the Progressive Democrats of America's antiwar campaign, hung up from a conference call with fellow activists to say that they were all ''totally unhappy'' and to compare Mr. Obama's decision to the escalations of Vietnam. ''This is a clear case of a president getting in deeper and deeper and proclaiming to see light at the end of the tunnel,'' he said.
 Still, for all the complaints, the response was much more measured than when Mr. Bush announced his own ''surge'' of extra troops to Iraq nearly three years ago, a reminder that Mr. Obama is in a stronger position than his predecessor was then and a sign that the blend of policies may temper opposition.
 Representative Ike Skelton, Democrat of Missouri and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Obama's plan generated little of the fireworks of the Bush years when he briefed Congressional leaders of both parties at the White House on Tuesday afternoon before flying to West Point. ''No one dissented,'' Mr. Skelton said. ''Not a lot of us spoke.''
 When he got to West Point, Mr. Obama spoke for 33 minutes to an audience of baby-faced soldiers, some of whom may be sent off to the unforgiving mountains of Afghanistan in the months and years ahead. He spoke firmly and at times rapidly, never smiling. Uncharacteristically, he looked away from the teleprompters and directly into the camera near the end of his speech: ''America, we are passing through a time of great trial.''
 Mr. Obama addressed multiple players, warning Afghan leaders to step up their efforts, reassuring Pakistanis of American solidarity and appealing to NATO allies for more troops. And he directly took on concerns and arguments raised by critics. 
 To Democrats who supported his campaign last year only to rebel at a further troop buildup, he noted that he had opposed the war in Iraq from the start and he rejected comparisons between Afghanistan and Vietnam. ''If I did not think that the security of the United States and the safety of the American people were at stake in Afghanistan, I would gladly order every single one of our troops home tomorrow,'' he said.
 And yet, Mr. Obama at times sounded like Mr. Bush in justifying this war. He celebrated the United States as a nation ''founded in resistance to oppression'' and talked about its long record of sacrifice in ''advancing frontiers of human liberty.'' 
 He also warned of the perils on an unchecked Qaeda. ''This danger will only grow if the region slides backwards, and Al Qaeda can operate with impunity. We must keep the pressure on Al Qaeda,'' he said.
 The president also used the moment to directly reject other options. To withdraw, he said, would ''create an unacceptable risk of additional attacks.'' To keep troop levels the same, he said, ''would simply maintain a status quo in which we muddle through.'' And to fail to set a time frame for withdrawal, he said, ''would commit us to a nation-building project of up to a decade.''
 Although Mr. Obama had spoken during his presidential campaign of the need to send troops to Afghanistan, that was hardly a central theme of his campaign, and he made it clear Tuesday that he was aware of the unease among Democrats that the expanded effort in Afghanistan would take resources away from domestic priorities. He repeatedly cited the poor economy and explicitly stated that cost was a factor in his deliberations.
 Still, Mr. Obama may have made his task even harder with his public display of uncertainty in the three months since Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal first warned of failure in Afghanistan without more troops. Now he has to demonstrate that he really is committed to the war -- and to the strategy he has come up with to win it.
 His message is ''heavily laced with language aimed at mollifying his base, which is strongly antiwar, rather than reassuring the middle and those who support the war now,'' said Peter D. Feaver, a Duke University specialist on wartime public opinion and a former Bush adviser. ''It's a triangulation heavy on trying to win over the people who probably can't be won over. And a lot of that messaging could sow doubts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama said that Americans ''can still come together behind a common purpose.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



47 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Who's Sari Now?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Michaele and Tareq Salahi finally actually got invited to an exclusive Washington gathering.
 But they're not sure they want to accept. 
 It is, after all, an invitation to Thursday's Congressional hearing into their Night of Living Dangerously, the notorious White House party-crashing incident.
 The Salahis discovered the secret to sneaking through a mythical gate, and that has now taken on the import of one of Dan Brown's ancient portals; the breached White House wall serves as a prism to examine our society, our president and our values. 
 We live in an age obsessed with ''reality'' and overrun by fakers. The mock has run amok.
 This decade will be remembered for the collapse of the Twin Towers, the economy and any standard of accomplishment for societal prestige. TV and the Internet wallow in the lowest common denominator.
 Warhol looks like Whistler.
 But if Congress investigates social climbing and party crashing in Washington, it won't have time for anything else.
 Because even the outrage over the fakers is fake. The capital has turned up its nose at the tacky trompe l'oeil Virginia horse-country socialites: a faux Redskins cheerleader and a faux successful businessman auditioning for a ''reality'' show by feigning a White House invitation.
 Yet Washington has always been a town full of poseurs, arrivistes, fame-seekers, cheaters and camera hogs.
 Lots of people here are trying to crash the party, wangle an invite to the right thing, work the angles and milk their connections to better insinuate their way into the inner circle.
 Barack Obama is the ultimate party crasher. He crashed Hillary's high-hat party in 2008 and he crashed the snooty age-old Washington party of privileged white guys with a monopoly on power.
 Sneaking past the White House gates with the slippery Salahis, we catch a rare glimpse of a Secret Service, a social office and a Pentagon with glaring -- and chilling -- vulnerabilities and liabilities.
 The Washington Post reported the Secret Service guard waved in the Salahis, breaking the rules, because he ''was persuaded by the couple's manner and insistence as well as the pressure of keeping lines moving on a rainy evening.''
 Because Barack Obama has broken historic barriers and excites strong passions, he requires a heightened level of Secret Service protection. Now, he isn't getting the minimum required.
 Vetting guests does not involve emotion or leeway. Famous lawmakers like Pat Schroeder have been turned away after showing up without IDs.
 Whatever Michele Jones, the Pentagon-based liaison to the White House, e-mailed the Salahis to enhance their delusion of having a shot at a dinner, she was mindlessly enabling fabulists.
 Desiree Rogers, who has also been asked to testify Thursday, has been cruising for a bruising since telling The Wall Street Journal in April: ''We have the best brand on Earth: the Obama brand. Our possibilities are endless.'' She wanted to pose for The Journal in an Oscar de la Renta gown in the first lady's garden, but the press secretary, Robert Gibbs, vetoed that.
 The statuesque social secretary brandishing a Harvard M.B.A. and animal-print designer shoes is not any mere party planner. The old friend of the first couple from Chicago has the exalted and uncommon title of social secretary and special assistant to the president.
 Instead of standing outside with a clipboard, eyeballing guests as Anne Hathaway did in ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' Desiree was a guest at the dinner, the center of her own table of guests, just like the president and first lady.
 As Michael Isikoff wrote in Newsweek, Rogers sidelined Cathy Hargraves, the East Wing staffer whose job it was to go to the East Gate portico and check off the names of each guest from a printout.
 Rogers told Hargraves that the Obama team felt no need for those services because, given the recession, there wouldn't be many lavish dinners. But even if it's just two state dinners a year, as the first lady plans, one big mistake is too many.
 Also, the rejection of the Bush appointee has unseemly echoes of Hillary Clinton sacking the White House travel office staff, unnecessarily politicizing an office that required old pros.
 Rogers also conjured up a White House closing ranks on itself, allowing far too many West Wing staffers, mid-level political aides, press flacks and speechwriters to attend the prestigious premiere state dinner, rather than people more relevant to the Indian guests of honor. The Obama team always talks of making the White House ''the People's House,'' so why let it look like the White House Mess?
 Even before the Salahis swept in preening, the Obama staffers were there preening, standing around celebrating themselves. And of course, savoring the wonder of the Obama brand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (76%); MAMMALS (71%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



48 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: 'McCain' Falls; 'Crisis' Rises

BYLINE: By JANIE LORBER

 BODY:
It's better to be Googled once than not at all. At least, that's what Senator John McCain may be saying now that he has been named the ''fastest-falling'' Google search this year, according to 2009 search trends released Tuesday by the company. 
 The search numbers, which Google has collected since 2001, illustrate Americans' anxieties and passions and, most notably this year, how big government programs inspired intense curiosity.
 In 2009 ''crisis'' and ''cash for clunkers'' were the words most searched in relation to the economy, and ''Obama'' was the most common health-care-related search.
 Americans Googled through the annals of legends lost -- Michael Jackson and Senator Edward M. Kennedy -- and did just as much searching for links to Facebook, Twitter and Hulu.
 To be fair, President Obama also made the ''fastest falling'' list coming in at No. 4, just ahead of Sarah Palin. (Mr. McCain, Mr. Obama and Ms. Palin, of course, all ended their political campaigns near the end of last year.)
 Mr. Kennedy, who died of brain cancer in August, was the most searched senator in 2009. He was followed by Senators Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, and Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California.
 The Obama administration's car incentive program, cash for clunkers, was the fastest-rising search term in the third quarter of the year -- just after the Department of Transportation told dealers to stop offering the rebate.
 ''Twitter'' was the fastest-rising Google search in 2009 and made Google's global list for the first time. 
 Google has a tool that lets you search trends on your own,google.com/trends.
 JANIE LORBER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TRENDS (89%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SALES REBATES (70%); POLITICS (68%); BRAIN CANCER (51%); CANCER (51%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TED KENNEDY (73%); SARAH PALIN (73%); BILL NELSON (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



49 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor, the Teachers and the Tests

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Mayor to Link Teacher Tenure to Test Scores'' (front page, Nov. 26):
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to include test scores in the teacher tenure decision is ill conceived. The teacher's effectiveness is only one component of what goes into a student's test score. Teachers cannot select their students, but most do their best with whomever they are given to work with.
 The mayor's plan will result in teachers' doing whatever they can to avoid teaching high-risk students, like those with poor attendance, poor reading and math scores, and poor work habits, attitudes or discipline. The incentive to influence scores in unprofessional ways will only increase, as will a lack of collegiality among teachers. 
 The mayor's analogy with the medical profession is far off the mark, as doctors do not have to avoid treating especially sick patients to keep their practices.
 Teachers have significant educational requirements and have to pass a number of tests before they can even enter the profession, so the fact that 93 percent achieve tenure is in no way out of whack with other professions. 
 As a school supervisor for 22 years and a teacher for more than 40 in New York City, I can attest to the fact that there are numerous ways to identify incompetent teachers besides students' test scores.
 Howard Brenner Woodmere, N.Y., Nov. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is playing a dangerous game with his advocacy of layoffs for teachers based on merit.
 This is opening a Pandora's box, as it will allow for many principals to get rid of people because of favoritism and differences in pedagogical methodology. Unfortunately, in some cases, religious and racial prejudice will begin to show its ugly head once more.
 Teachers are rated satisfactory or unsatisfactory each school year. If everyone in a given department received satisfactory ratings, what objective way is left for a principal in removing a teacher? If we are to eliminate the bad ways as mentioned above, we should only have to depend on a seniority system. This is basically the only fair way. 
 Of course, in reality, no teacher should be laid off. We have plenty of dead wood sitting at Tweed, as well as in the mayor's office.
 Ed Greenspan Brooklyn, Nov. 29, 2009
 The writer is a retired New York City teacher.
 To the Editor:
 Measuring the effectiveness of novice teachers has always been a challenging task for principals. Does the new teacher have ''it'' -- the ability to engage learners in the job of learning? Does he or she have the fundamental personal power to manage a class of antsy, frequently disadvantaged children from many backgrounds? 
 Can he create a series of lessons that form a meaningful and appropriate rendering of the curriculum for this group of students? These criteria serve as the basis for granting or denying tenure.
 As a young teacher many years ago, I taught in a school with a homogeneous grouping. When I taught the highest-performing class, my average reading score jumped about two years; when I taught the most challenging class, it moved about nine months. 
 The effort was the same, but the results were very different. Should I have been granted or denied tenure?
 An old adage said that ''good tests test good instruction,'' and that was the case in New York at one time; unfortunately, that is no longer true. Good test scores now reflect both socioeconomic status (perhaps they always have) and hour upon hour of test preparation.
 If tenure is linked to test scores, why would idealistic young people want to teach in those schools where it is most difficult to significantly raise scores, and where that becomes the criteria for tenure?
 Eileen Greenspun Staten Island, Nov. 27, 2009
 The writer, a retired principal, staff developer and teacher in the New York City schools, supervises student teachers for the College of Staten Island.
 To the Editor:
 Judging teachers on the success of their students is similar to judging a lawyer on the number of convictions or acquittals. It first depends on what the lawyer is given to work with. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg uses the analogy of heart surgeons and patient survival rates. Doctors perform routine bypass or valve replacements, but much of the patient's success is dependent on age, health, lifestyle and hospital resources. These outside factors affect the patient's chance of survival. 
 There are many internal and external factors that influence each student's learning that are beyond the teacher's control. Factors related to economics, language, home environment, motivation, attitude and aptitude help inspire or discourage learning. It is not as simple as a test score.
 Eliot Weiss Brooklyn, Nov. 26, 2009
 The writer teaches calculus at Edward R. Murrow High School.
 To the Editor:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg says he wants staff members who were put on the absentee teacher reserve list to be fired if they don't find jobs within one year. In theory, this sounds reasonable. But when you look into the facts, it is clear that this is a heartless way to save money and destroy lives. 
 Most of the staff members whose schools were closed by the Department of Education through no fault of their own have since been hired into full-time positions in schools. They have full programs, teach five classes a day, or if they are secretaries, work full time doing payroll or staffing the dean's office. But their principals have chosen not to have them appointed, so as to save money. 
 Therefore, officially they show up as on the reserve list and under the mayor's plan will lose their jobs -- jobs they have been doing satisfactorily since their schools closed. Has he no heart, or is he completely unaware of what is actually happening at his agency?
 Elizabeth A. Knajdl Bayside, Queens, Nov. 26, 2009
 The writer is a former New York City teacher and union representative.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARCELLUS HALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TENURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); MATHEMATICS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



50 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Obama Speeds Troops and Vows to Start Pullout in 2011

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and HELENE COOPER; Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from West Point, and Helene Cooper from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Peter Baker, David E. Sanger, Mark Mazzetti, Carl Hulse and Mark Landler from Washington, and Carlotta Gall from Kabul, Afghanistan.

DATELINE: WEST POINT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
President Obama announced Tuesday that he would speed 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan in coming months, but he vowed to start bringing American forces home in the middle of 2011, saying the United States could not afford and should not have to shoulder an open-ended commitment.
 Promising that he could ''bring this war to a successful conclusion,'' Mr. Obama set out a strategy that would seek to reverse Taliban gains in large parts of Afghanistan, better protect the Afghan people, increase the pressure on Afghanistan to build its own military capacity and a more effective government and step up attacks on Al Qaeda in Pakistan.
 ''America, we are passing through a time of great trial,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And the message that we send in the midst of these storms must be clear: that our cause is just, our resolve unwavering.''
 The military escalation Mr. Obama described and defended in his speech to a national television audience and 4,000 cadets at the United States Military Academy here, the culmination of a review that lasted three months, could well prove to be the most consequential decision of Mr. Obama's presidency. 
 In his 33-minute address, he sought to convince an increasingly skeptical nation that the resurgence of the Taliban in Afghanistan and the continued existence of Al Qaeda across the border in Pakistan -- what he called a ''cancer'' on the region -- were direct threats to the United States, and that he could achieve the seemingly contradictory goals of expanding American involvement in the war even as he sought to bring it to a close. 
 The scene in the hall was striking and somber: row after row of cadets, in their blue-gray uniforms, listening intently to a strategy that could put many of them in harm's way. ''If I did not think that the security of the United States and the safety of the American people were at stake in Afghanistan, I would gladly order every single one of our troops home tomorrow,'' Mr. Obama said. ''So no, I do not make this decision lightly.'' He called on foreign allies to step up their commitment, declaring, ''This is not just America's war.''
 He delivered a pointed message to Hamid Karzai, the president of Afghanistan, saying, ''The days of providing a blank check are over.''
 Addressing critics who have likened Afghanistan to Vietnam, Mr. Obama called the comparison ''a false reading of history.'' And he spoke directly to the American people about the tough road ahead.
 ''Let me be clear: none of this will be easy,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The struggle against violent extremism will not be finished quickly, and it extends well beyond Afghanistan and Pakistan. It will be an enduring test of our free society, and our leadership in the world.''
 With the economy weak and the issue of jobs foremost on Americans' minds, the president conceded that the new strategy would carry an expensive price tag, which he put at an additional $30 billion in the first year. 
 Yet with some Democrats talking of a war surtax, Mr. Obama offered no details of how he intended to pay for his new policy, saying only that he was ''committed to addressing these costs openly and honestly.'' 
 White House advisers said they expected the administration would do so in the coming weeks, as officials including Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton testify on Capitol Hill starting Wednesday.
 The approach laid out by Mr. Obama -- not so much a new strategy as a doubling down on the one he embraced earlier this year -- incorporated the basic goals and came close to the force levels proposed in the counterinsurgency plan that Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the top military commander in Afghanistan, put forward in September.
 In that report, General McChrystal said, in stark language, that unless significantly more troops were sent, the war in Afghanistan was likely to be lost.
 But by including an explicit timetable to begin a withdrawal, Mr. Obama highlighted the seemingly conflicting pressures defining the debate over how to proceed: to do what is necessary to ensure that the region is not a launching pad for attacks on the United States and its allies, and to disengage militarily as quickly as possible.
 Senior administration officials suggested, however, that any initial withdrawal starting in mid-2011 could be very limited, depending on the military situation at that point. 
 ''The pace, the nature and the duration of that transition are to be determined down the road by the president based on the conditions on the ground,'' said Michele A. Flournoy, under secretary of defense for policy.
 The initial political reactions showed the crosscurrents facing the White House. Republicans applauded the buildup of troops but questioned the commitment to a timetable for bringing them home.
 ''Setting a draw-down date before this surge has even begun is a mistake, and it sends a mixed message to both our friends and our enemies regarding our long-term commitment to success,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. 
 But among many Democrats, the response ranged from noncommittal to outright opposition.
 ''I see no good reason for us to send another 30,000 or more troops to Afghanistan when we have so many pressing issues -- like our economy -- to deal with in this country,'' said Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York.
 Mr. Obama is calculating, administration officials said, that the explicit promise of a drawdown will impress upon the Afghan government that his commitment is not open-ended. 
 Mr. Obama was less clear publicly on how he planned to address the issue of Pakistan, which many administration officials say will prove to be a far more intractable problem in the long term than Afghanistan. 
 Administration officials said that Mr. Obama had signed off on a plan by the Central Intelligence Agency to expand C.I.A. activities in Pakistan. The plan calls for more strikes against militants by drone aircraft, sending additional spies to Pakistan and securing a White House commitment to bulk up the C.I.A.'s budget for operations inside the country. 
 The expanded operations could include drone strikes in the southern province of Baluchistan, where senior Afghan Taliban leaders are believed to be hiding, officials said. 
 The new Afghanistan strategy draws heavily on lessons learned from Mr. Bush's ''surge'' and strategy shift in Iraq in 2007, which Mr. Obama opposed. 
 In addition to the influx of troops and the training of the Afghan Army, administration officials said they were taking other lessons from the Iraq buildup, like empowering local security forces to stand up to Taliban militants in their communities and enhancing the training of national forces by embedding American troops with Afghan counterparts and later pairing American and Afghan units to fight side by side.
 The 30,000 troops that Mr. Obama is sending are part of what one administration official characterized as a short-term, high-intensity effort to regain the initiative against the Taliban. 
 Administration officials said that they were hoping to get a commitment for an additional 5,000 to 8,000 troops from NATO allies -- perhaps as early as Friday at a foreign ministers' meeting in Brussels -- which would bring the number of additional troops in Afghanistan to close to the 40,000 that General McChrystal was seeking. 
 Mr. Obama is sending three of the four brigades requested by General McChrystal. The first Marines will begin arriving as early as Christmas, and all forces will be in place by May, a senior administration official said.
 The 30,000 new American troops will focus on securing and protecting the country's top population centers, including Kabul, Khost and Kandahar, the Taliban's spiritual capital. Military officials said that two brigades would go south, with the third going to eastern Afghanistan. 
 Military officers said that they could maintain pressure on insurgents in remote regions by using surveillance drones and reports from people in the field to find pockets of Taliban fighters and to guide attacks, in particular by Special Operations forces.
 The strategy also includes expanded economic development and reconciliation with less radical members of the Taliban.
 In addition, Mr. Obama is making tougher demands on the Afghan government; he spent an hour on the phone Monday with Mr. Karzai, White House officials said, and pressed him on the need to combat the corruption and drug trafficking, which many Western officials say has fueled the resurgence of the Taliban. 
 During the conversation, Mr. Obama, described by one White House official as ''very explicit,'' pressed Mr. Karzai on the need to take steps that would show progress. Mr. Obama congratulated Mr. Karzai on setting up a corruption task force, but also pressed him on the need to make sure that officials appointed by the government are untainted by corruption.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Spelling out his plans for Afghanistan, President Obama on Tuesday said he could ''bring this war to a successful conclusion.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Cadets at West Point listened to the invocation Tuesday night before President Obama announced his strategy for fighting, and ending, the war in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A13) GRAPHIC: IN THE TALIBAN'S GRIP: Many of the additional 30,000 troops will be sent to provinces in southern and eastern Afghanistan in order to break the Taliban's hold there. (Source: The Long War Journal (Taliban map)) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (90%); AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HAMAD KARZAI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



51 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Big Utility To Close 11 Plants Using Coal

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A large Southern utility said Tuesday that it would close 30 percent of its North Carolina coal-fired power plants by 2017, a step that represents a bet that natural gas prices will stay acceptably low and that stricter rules are coming on sulfur dioxide emissions, which cause acid rain. 
 The utility, Progress Energy, based in Raleigh, said it would close 11 coal-fired power plants built between the 1950s and 1970s. 
 ''Some of these plants are quite old,'' said Bill Johnson, the chief executive of the company. But, he added, ''They have a lot of useful life left in them, absent the need to put emissions control units on them.''
 Mr. Johnson also said the company was taking a risk by reducing its output of carbon dioxide, which is not yet regulated, in the near term. He and others expect that Congress will eventually impose a limit on carbon dioxide emissions, possibly in the form of percentage reductions based on a baseline year. By closing the plants now, Progress is effectively cutting its baseline, meaning it may have to reduce emissions even further in the future. 
 ''We need to do the right thing, regardless of that, and this is the right thing,'' he said in a telephone interview. If there is a control system added later, he said, ''we'd be making a strong argument, 'Don't penalize us for doing the right thing.' '' 
 While the short-term substitute is natural gas, the long-term plan is a nuclear backbone for the company's generating system, he said. 
 The plants being closed, at four sites, have a combined capacity of nearly 1,500 megawatts. Progress has spent more than $2 billion to put state-of-the-art controls on 2,500 megawatts of coal generation, the company said. And it has already announced plans for one new gas-fired plant and will soon announce additional plans, the company said. Progress is also planning to build two nuclear reactors in North Carolina and two more in Florida, but none will be in use by 2017.
 Gov. Bev Perdue said in a statement that the announcement by Progress was important for the state's air quality. ''The transition toward cleaner sources of energy is good for the environment and the economy,'' she said. 
 Progress said it might repower some coal-burning plants with wood waste. It does not anticipate large-scale wind or solar power in the near future, Mr. Johnson said. There is good wind offshore, but the area routinely experiences hurricanes that are stronger than existing wind machines can handle, he said. 
 Duke, another utility that operates in North Carolina, is closing some coal plants but is building a new one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); WIND POWER PLANTS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); WEATHER (72%); ACID RAIN (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

PERSON: WILLIAM D JOHNSON (79%); BILL JOHNSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



52 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 494 words

 BODY:
TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week on the blog, Col. John R. Boule II is answering readers' questions about his career and the United States Army Corps of Engineers projects in the area. Here is an excerpt: 
 Q. I surf at the Rockaways, and the experience would be better without the wooden posts sticking up in between the rocky jetties. What were they, what purpose did they serve, and can some be removed without interfering with surfing and water quality? kookalicious
 A. While the structures weren't built or maintained by the Corps of Engineers, I've seen them, and they are most likely the remnants of groins built between 1910 and 1930. 
 They probably served exactly the same purpose as the large stone groins currently do, and that is to retain sand moving along the shore. The most degraded of the structures could probably be removed without impacting surfing or water quality. 
 Unfortunately, it is hard to quantify impacts to surfing conditions. For example, if a surf break is currently functioning near one of these structures, its removal might affect the adjacent surf break.
 Q. I'm wondering why the Army Corps of Engineers is required to work on these projects in the New York metropolitan area when other private construction and engineering firms could do the same projects while hiring unemployed citizens from the area? Don
 A. The reality is that most of the projects the corps undertakes, in the New York area and elsewhere, are actually carried out by private contractors, often local small businesses, and create jobs in the process. 
 The Corps of Engineers provides project management and services like oversight and quality control for these projects, while the private contractors that are awarded the contracts to carry out the projects in turn hire workers (not Corps of Engineers employees) to actually perform the work on the ground.
 In fact, the Corps of Engineers as a whole received $4.6 billion in stimulus money from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Our district has specifically used stimulus money to award contracts from New Jersey up to the Lake Champlain Basin.
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 No Ordinary Hotel: Hotel desk clerks field a lot of requests, but at a certain hotel in Midtown, the requests can sometimes seem unusual to the average civilian.
 ''I've had guests call ahead and ask for a private room because they have post-traumatic stress disorder, and they wake up at night screaming,'' said Michelle Garcia, a desk clerk at the Soldiers', Sailors', Marines', Coast Guard and Airmen's Club, on Lexington Avenue near 37th Street.
 This week, the clerks got some tips on serving their clientele, from dealing with war-torn emotions to handling bureaucratic needs of service members who are on furlough or being deployed.
 Baby Names, 2008: Jayden has become the most popular name in the city for newborn boys, with 872 given that name in 2008, health officials announced Wednesday. Sophia ranked No. 1 for girls.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO)
 Desk clerks at a Midtown hotel for members of the military attend a briefing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL ENGINEERING (91%); ARMIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); SURFING (89%); HOTEL STAFF (86%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (84%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (72%); LAKES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); CITIES (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); QUALITY CONTROL (56%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



53 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: A U.S. Parallel to Dubai World

BYLINE: By AGNES CRANE and WEI GU

 BODY:
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not exactly America's answer to Dubai World. But creditors of the two mortgage finance giants should not forget that, like Dubai's investment arm, they have only implicit government backing.
 So far, investors are sleeping just fine at night. The Treasury's $400 billion equity line for the two companies has a lot to do with that, as does federal ownership of more than $1 trillion of Fannie and Freddie debt and mortgage-backed securities. The government would be shooting itself in the foot if it were to allow them to default on their more than $1.6 trillion of outstanding debt.
 On top of that, the role of the two government-sponsored enterprises in the nation's housing finance market is pivotal. Even setting aside domestic concerns, a default by the two on what has long been seen as quasi-sovereign debt would torpedo America's reputation in international financial markets. 
 All that helps explain why two-year bonds issued by Fannie and Freddie are at levels reminiscent of a precrisis world, trading this week with yields in the area of 18 to 20 basis points less than benchmark swap rates.
 The two companies still have almost three-quarters of their government lifeline remaining. And although a dreadful labor market and rising mortgage delinquencies mean the companies are likely to need more of those government funds, it seems a stretch to suggest that $200 billion each will not be enough.
 That said, foreign central banks, once reliable buyers of Fannie and Freddie debt, are easing back a bit. Their holdings of mortgage bonds and debt from Fannie and Freddie have fallen to $767 billion, from nearly $1 trillion last year.
 The doomsayers predicting a debt and currency crisis in the United States might also anticipate that, in a crunch, the government would have little choice but to focus on its direct obligations and cut the two loose. The companies' creditors are betting such a day of reckoning will not be in the cards for years, if at all. Even so, the potential consequences are so huge that long-term investors should not ignore the possibility.
 Strait Logic
 Chinese and Taiwanese companies are preparing for a closer union. Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the biggest bank in China, is in talks to buy a $3 billion stake in Cathay Financial Holdings of Taiwan. In the other direction, the financial group Fubon might buy a stake in the China International Capital Corporation, a leading mainland investment bank, from the Wall Street giant Morgan Stanley. These landmark deals would signal a thaw in cross-straits relations, but offer the buyers few hard benefits.
 Mainland investments in Taiwan have been taboo, but a decade of capital outflows and the financial crisis have made China a more attractive ally. An agreement in November paved the way for financial firms to invest across the straits. The first two potential deals under the new accord, though, look more symbolic than strategic. Both buyers stand to receive minority stakes -- 20 percent in Cathay, and 34 percent in China International Capital -- with no prospect of taking control. Morgan Stanley is selling out precisely because it could not influence a strong-willed management.
 Nor does either combination have strong logic. Fubon Financial Holding, a retail bank and insurance provider, would get economic exposure to China's rapidly growing securities market through China International Capital, but with little potential for synergies. The price in an auction could be high. Fubon might get more from teaming up with smaller, less prominent mainland companies, as it did with Xiamen Commercial Bank, where it has management control.
 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, meanwhile, would be diverting its capital and attention from China's high-growth market to Taiwan's mature one. The bank may hope to gain insight and credit information on Cathay's Taiwanese clients, but setting up an office in Taiwan would achieve some of those goals, probably at a lower price.
 A crack in the ice looks overdue. China Mobile's plan to invest in Far EasTone Telecommunications of Taiwan has stalled over political issues. A private equity bid by Primus Financial for A.I.G.'s Nan Shan insurance unit hit a roadblock after regulators feared the deal could become a Trojan horse for mainland investors. After such disappointments, it would be welcome if these early bank talks materialize -- but more for their symbolism than for their financial logic.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A branch of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China in Shanghai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CATHAY FINANCIAL HOLDING CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (63%); MS (NYSE) (58%); CFHS (LSE) (51%); 2882 (TAIEX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (66%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); EAST CHINA (74%) CHINA (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



54 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Businesses Pay the Price When the Bills Go to Toronto

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The Wegmans supermarket a few minutes from Ralph Wilson Stadium was buzzing four hours before the Buffalo Bills took the field last Sunday. Fans spent hundreds of dollars at the deli counter and on bags of ice, snacks and charcoal, and on cases of beer.
 In the restaurants around the stadium, fans were six deep at the bar before and after the game, ordering drinks, pizzas and chicken wings. Nearby, homeowners waved drivers onto their front lawns, where they offered parking for as little as $10, less than half the cost of a spot in the stadium lots.
There is no accurate tally of the money spent in the days leading up to Bills home games, but one thing is clear. The team's decision to play eight home games in Toronto over five years hurts an array of local businesses.
 ''It stinks,'' said Amy Morgan, the owner of Tailgaters Bar & Grill, which makes about 70 percent of its monthly sales on game days, when 10 workers are employed. ''They're taking revenue away.'' 
 Around Buffalo, the team's home games in Canada -- including Thursday's matchup with the Jets -- have stoked long-simmering fears that the Bills will move to Toronto, the much larger and wealthier city 90 miles north. First the steel mills, then the car plants and now the Bills, cynical fans moan.
 Business owners, though, have a more complicated relationship with the team. Many of them profit from the Bills and feel the pinch when home games are moved. Yet they sympathize with the team, which says that playing a few games in Toronto will ensure that it remains here.
 Indeed, Rogers Communications, Canada's largest wireless company and the owner of Rogers Centre, paid the Bills $78 million to play three preseason and five regular-season games in Toronto. That is twice the team's operating income last year, according to Forbes.
 Russ Brandon, the Bills' chief operating officer, declined to say how they used the money. They do not have much debt, and they have a favorable lease with Erie County, which reimburses the team for some of the expenses of maintaining the stadium.
 But the Bills, who play in one of the N.F.L.'s smallest television markets, feel pressure to keep up with the Cowboys, the Giants and the Jets, and other teams whose new stadiums will generate more revenue and the wherewithal to sign top players and coaches.
 ''We're a small-market franchise and we compete with 31 other clubs, so you have to find ways to compete,'' Brandon said. ''With the demographic and economic challenges we face, we have to think outside the framework.''
 The Bills have looked afar before. The team moved its training camp to Rochester in 2000, which led to a flood of season-ticket holders from fans east of Buffalo.
 Playing games in Canada was the next logical step. Even before the Bills' first two games in Toronto last season, Canadians bought about 15 percent of the tickets in Orchard Park. Thanks to the strong Canadian dollar, Bills fans from north of the border are among the biggest spenders when they travel here.
 Showcasing the team in Canada seems to have worked. The number of season-ticket holders from Canada rose 48 percent this year. As a result, the Bills sold more than 55,000 season tickets, their third-best total ever. Overall ticket sales have dipped only 1.5 percent, despite the recession.
 The games in Toronto dovetail with the N.F.L.'s goal of internationalizing the league to increase merchandise sales, television revenue and sponsorships. Along with the games in Canada, the N.F.L. has played regular-season games in London, Mexico City and Tokyo.
 ''The goal was to grow the N.F.L.,'' said Mark Waller, the league's chief marketing officer, who said that winning over fans in Canada is a long-term proposition. ''It is not about moving the franchise.''
 But Waller added that losing one or two of a limited supply of home games could harm local businesses that were stung by the economic downturn and the team's poor play. The Bills are at the bottom of their division this year and have not made the playoffs since 1999.
 ''For my business it hurts, and the hurt could be a sideswipe or a big hit depending on which team the Bills play in Canada,'' said David Hart, the president of Hart Hotels, which has six hotels in western New York. ''Once you get an overnight accommodation, you trigger a whole bunch of other spending.''
 Visiting teams, Hart and other hoteliers say, typically reserve about 100 rooms for their players, coaches and executives for one and sometimes two nights. The players are big eaters, so business is often good at the hotel's restaurants. Thousands of out-of-town fans stream in, especially when the Bills play the Browns, Jets or Steelers.
 The visitors generate money for the city by paying a 5 percent bed tax and an 8.75 percent sales tax. In all, the Bills produce $141 million annually in economic activity, according to estimates cited by Mayor Byron W. Brown of Buffalo.
 Based on huge piles of empty cans strewn across parking lots near the stadium, beer sales also take a hit when the Buffalo area loses a game. During a typical Bills home game, Try-It Distributing, which controls 80 percent of the pouring rights in the stadium, sells about 400 cases of 16-ounce cans and 200 kegs of beer.
 ''We understand it: how many millions can you make in Buffalo?'' said Paul Vukelic, the company's president. ''To us, it's one less home game with less beer and no tailgating, so it definitely affects us.''
 Property owners who charge for parking cars on their lawns and empty lots also lose income. Dennis Zimny uses the money he earns from his 20 parking spots at $10 each to pay most of his school and county taxes.
 Limousine companies also lose out. Dave Irwin, the owner of Advantage Limousine in Buffalo, said his business had picked up because of the enforcement of drunken-driving laws. For each home game, he often rents seven of his dozen limousines for up to $650 apiece; that income makes up to 15 percent of his company's annual revenue.
 ''The long and short of it is, it doesn't help when they pull a game out,'' he said.
 Lisa Gilpatrick faces the same problem. She and three co-workers have sold hats, T-shirts and other N.F.L. garb at a stand in front of the stadium for the past 15 years. Last Sunday, she sold three dozen buffalo head hats at $12 each and hundreds of other items.
 ''It means a lot of money lost to Toronto, and our workers don't get paid,'' she said.
 While the Bills seek a financial boost in Toronto, their Canadian fans seem to prefer that the team keep all of its home games at home. Tickets for the Bills games in Toronto are more expensive than they are here. Food and beer are also more expensive, and the rules on tailgating are more onerous.
 Cindy McInally, a longtime season-ticket holder from Simcoe, Ontario, was typical of many Canadian fans. She and 20 of her friends and relatives spent about $300 on pizzas, chicken wings, chips, beer and other drinks at Wegmans. The 90-minute drive, the tailgating and the chance to see the Bills play in their real home were the attraction, not the game alone.
 ''The Bills games are quite an event, and they're reasonably priced,'' she said. ''We much prefer they stay here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BEER & ALE (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (94%)

TICKER: RCI.A (TSX) (53%); RCI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



55 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Pay the Price When the Bills Go to Toronto

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The Wegmans supermarket a few minutes from Ralph Wilson Stadium was buzzing four hours before the Buffalo Bills took the field last Sunday. Fans spent hundreds of dollars at the deli counter and on bags of ice, snacks and charcoal, and on cases of beer.
 In the restaurants around the stadium, fans were six deep at the bar before and after the game, ordering drinks, pizzas and chicken wings. Nearby, homeowners waved drivers onto their front lawns, where they offered parking for as little as $10, less than half the cost of a spot in the stadium lots.
 There is no accurate tally of the money spent in the days leading up to Bills home games, but one thing is clear. The team's decision to play eight home games in Toronto over five years hurts an array of local businesses.
 ''It stinks,'' said Amy Morgan, the owner of Tailgaters Bar & Grill, which makes about 70 percent of its monthly sales on game days, when 10 workers are employed. ''They're taking revenue away.'' 
 Around Buffalo, the team's home games in Canada -- including Thursday's matchup with the Jets -- have stoked long-simmering fears that the Bills will move to Toronto, the much larger and wealthier city 90 miles north. First the steel mills, then the car plants and now the Bills, cynical fans moan.
 Business owners, though, have a more complicated relationship with the team. Many of them profit from the Bills and feel the pinch when home games are moved. Yet they sympathize with the team, which says that playing a few games in Toronto will ensure that it remains here.
 Indeed, Rogers Communications, Canada's largest wireless company and the owner of Rogers Centre, paid the Bills $78 million to play three preseason and five regular-season games in Toronto. That is twice the team's operating income last year, according to Forbes.
 Russ Brandon, the Bills' chief operating officer, declined to say how they used the money. They do not have much debt, and they have a favorable lease with Erie County, which reimburses the team for some of the expenses of maintaining the stadium.
 But the Bills, who play in one of the N.F.L.'s smallest television markets, feel pressure to keep up with the Giants and the Jets, and other teams whose new stadiums will generate more revenue and the wherewithal to sign top players and coaches.
 ''We're a small-market franchise and we compete with 31 other clubs, so you have to find ways to compete,'' Brandon said. ''With the demographic and economic challenges we face, we have to think outside the framework.''
 The Bills have looked afar before. The team moved its training camp to Rochester in 2000, which led to a flood of season-ticket holders from fans east of Buffalo.
 Playing games in Canada was the next logical step. Even before the Bills' first two games in Toronto last season, Canadians bought about 15 percent of the tickets in Orchard Park. Thanks to the strong Canadian dollar, Bills fans from north of the border are among the biggest spenders when they travel here.
 Showcasing the team in Canada seems to have worked. The number of season-ticket holders from Canada rose 48 percent this year. As a result, the Bills sold more than 55,000 season tickets, their third-best total ever. Overall ticket sales have dipped only 1.5 percent, despite the recession.
 The games in Toronto dovetail with the N.F.L.'s goal of internationalizing the league to increase merchandise sales, television revenue and sponsorships. Along with the games in Canada, the N.F.L. has played regular-season games in London, Mexico City and Tokyo.
 ''The goal was to grow the N.F.L.,'' said Mark Waller, the league's chief marketing officer, who said that winning over fans in Canada was a long-term proposition. ''It is not about moving the franchise.''
 But Waller added that losing one or two of a limited supply of home games could harm local businesses that were stung by the economic downturn and the team's poor play. The Bills are at the bottom of their division this year and have not made the playoffs since 1999.
 ''For my business it hurts, and the hurt could be a sideswipe or a big hit depending on which team the Bills play in Canada,'' said David Hart, the president of Hart Hotels, which has six hotels in western New York. ''Once you get an overnight accommodation, you trigger a whole bunch of other spending.''
 Visiting teams, Hart and other hoteliers say, typically reserve about 100 rooms for their players, coaches and executives for one and sometimes two nights. The players are big eaters, so business is often good at the hotel's restaurants. Thousands of out-of-town fans stream in, especially when the Bills play the Browns, the Jets or the Steelers.
 The visitors generate money for the city by paying a 5 percent bed tax and an 8.75 percent sales tax. In all, the Bills produce $141 million annually in economic activity, according to estimates cited by Mayor Byron W. Brown of Buffalo.
 Based on huge piles of empty cans strewn across parking lots near the stadium, beer sales also take a hit when the Buffalo area loses a game. During a typical Bills home game, Try-It Distributing, which controls 80 percent of the pouring rights in the stadium, sells about 400 cases of 16-ounce cans and 200 kegs of beer.
 ''We understand it: how many millions can you make in Buffalo?'' said Paul Vukelic, the company's president. ''To us, it's one less home game with less beer and no tailgating, so it definitely affects us.''
 Property owners who charge for parking cars on their lawns and empty lots also lose income. Dennis Zimny uses the money he earns from his 20 parking spots at $10 each to pay most of his school and county taxes.
 Limousine companies also lose out. Dave Irwin, the owner of Advantage Limousine in Buffalo, said his business had picked up because of the enforcement of drunken-driving laws. For each home game, he often rents seven of his dozen limousines for up to $650 apiece; that income makes up to 15 percent of his company's annual revenue.
 ''The long and short of it is, it doesn't help when they pull a game out,'' he said.
 While the Bills seek a financial boost in Toronto, their Canadian fans seem to prefer that the team keep all of its home games at home. Tickets for the Bills games in Toronto are more expensive than they are here. Food and beer are also more expensive.
 Cindy McInally, a longtime season-ticket holder from Simcoe, Ontario, was typical of many Canadian fans. She and 20 of her friends and relatives spent about $300 on pizzas, chicken wings, chips, beer and other drinks at Wegmans. The 90-minute drive, the tailgating and the chance to see the Bills play in their real home were the attraction, not the game alone.
 ''The Bills games are quite an event, and they're reasonably priced,'' she said. ''We much prefer they stay here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dennis Zimny uses the money he earns from parking fees to pay most of his school and county taxes.
Tailgaters stocked up with beer, food, ice and other provisions before the Bills played the Dolphins last Sunday.
Chicken wings and caps are some of the items that local businesses cash in on when the Bills play in Buffalo. The Bills produce an estimated $141 million annually in economic activity. (B15)
 The Bills were at home against the Dolphins last Sunday. On Thursday, they will be at home in Toronto against the Jets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B16) CHART: Jets vs. Buffalo at Toronto 8:20 p.m. Thursday TV: NFL Network, Channel 11 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BEER & ALE (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (94%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (83%)

TICKER: RCI.A (TSX) (53%); RCI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



56 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Animal Planet) ECHO: QUEEN OF THE ELEPHANTS At the base of Mount Kilimanjaro in Kenya, in Amboseli National Park, 1,200 wild elephants -- the largest group ever studied, some members for more than 30 years -- fight for survival. At their heart is Echo (leading the pack, above), the matriarch and the most analyzed elephant on the planet. This two-hour program follows Cynthia Moss, the director of the Amboseli Elephant Research Project, and her Masai team as they chronicle Echo's efforts to guide her family through drought and famine, defend it against predators and warriors, and, in what will be the last journey of her life, pass her crown to the next generation.
 8 A.M. (Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network) CAVUTO Neil Cavuto reports on the White House Jobs Summit live from the Commerce Building in Washington in this all-day program ending at 7 p.m. He'll also interview Donald J. Trump; Thomas J. Donohue, chief executive of the United States Chamber of Commerce; and Edward P. Lazear, former chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush. At 5:15 on Fox Business Network, Liz Claman speaks with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. 
 5:30 P.M. (Encore) IN THE HOUSE Two Hollywood insiders -- Peter Bart and Peter Guber -- team up to dish about the movie business in this news and interview show. In the inaugural episode, Morgan Freeman, right, discusses portraying Nelson Mandela in ''Invictus,'' directed by Clint Eastwood and produced by Lori McCreary, also a guest. The fashion designer Tom Ford talks about ''A Single Man,'' his filmmaking debut, starring Colin Firth and Julianne Moore.
 8 P.M. (Discovery Health) DWARF ADOPTION STORY In this latest Baby Week installment, David and Tina King, a little couple, prepare to adopt their second child, a 2-year-old dwarf from Albania.
 8 P.M. (BBC America) THE TRUTH ABOUT BINGE DRINKING Michelle Heaton, a party girl who has made headlines primarily for her alcoholic excesses, embarks on a 30-day experiment in which she'll consume a minimum of 60 drinks each week -- while under a doctor's supervision -- in order to cure herself of temptation. 
 8 P.M. (Sundance) LEMON TREE (2008) A Palestinian widow (Hiam Abbass, left) must defend her lemon grove when the Israeli defense minister (Doron Tavory) moves in next door and threatens to tear it down. In The New York Times, Stephen Holden praised Ms. Abbass's performance, writing, ''With this movie and 'The Visitor,' for which Richard Jenkins received an Oscar nomination, she has emerged as a formidable international presence with the magnetism of a Middle Eastern Lena Olin.''
 8 P.M. (Science) SCIENCE OF THE MOVIES Nars Williams gets a lesson in puppet sculpture from the Chiodo Brothers, who made the marionettes for ''Team America: World Police.'' He then learns about movie coloring during a visit to the Technicolor corporation. The animal wrangler Jules Sylvester unleashes some of the creatures used in movies like ''Snakes on a Plane'' and ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.'' 
 9 P.M. (CNBC) INSIDE THE MIND OF GOOGLEMaria Bartiromo traces the history of the technology company and finds out where it's headed. She also looks at how it plans to deal with one of the biggest issues of the digital age: privacy.
 10 P.M. (Food Network) ACE OF CAKES Duff Goldman and his bakery crew rev up their mixers and fill their pastry bags in this holiday-themed Season 8 premiere. The piece de resistance: a cake for the 75th anniversary of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular. 
 10 P.M. (MTV) JERSEY SHORE Those housewives from Franklin Lakes may want to start looking over their shoulders. Billed in a promo as a glimpse into the inner sanctum of a house on the New Jersey shore filled with the ''hottest, tannest, craziest Guidos,'' this new series promises a summer's worth of high hair, juiced muscles and pumping fists. And lots of the requisite commotion.
 10 P.M. (TLC) BBQ PITMASTERS For those passionate about barbecue, it's all about a perfectly charred rib, a succulent bite of brisket -- and, of course, the truckload of cash that can be won for producing either. This new series trails barbecue competitors as they tour the country with secret recipes and pits (actually, custom-built mobile ovens) in tow. First stop: the Smokin' in Mesquite championship in the Nevada desert, with a prize purse of $40,000. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); FASHION DESIGNERS (63%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (61%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

PERSON: COLIN FIRTH (69%); NEIL CAVUTO (68%); CLINT EASTWOOD (55%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%); ED LAZEAR (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); DONALD TRUMP (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOUNT KILIMANJARO (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (75%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); ISRAEL (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



57 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Say Deal Is Near to Restructure Rusal's Debt

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Rusal, the world's largest aluminum producer, which is struggling under $17 billion in debt, is close to an agreement with about 70 banks to restructure its loans on terms considered favorable to the company and its billionaire owner, bankers said on Wednesday.
 Neither the banks nor Rusal, the company with the most distressed debt in Russia, have formally announced an agreement, though bankers at institutions that have lent money to Rusal said a deal was imminent. In addition, Rusal is planning to sell 10 percent of the company in a share offering. 
 While troubling for its scale, the deal is also thought to set a precedent within Russia for other companies deeply in debt to Western banks. The banks will allow Rusal to operate essentially under a pay-as-you-can agreement, though pegged to aluminum prices, according to terms made public this year. The company will be permitted to roll missed payments into the capital and begin repaying principal only when the global economy recovers, and with it prices for aluminum.
 In exchange, Rusal pledged not to pay dividends until its earnings rise significantly in relation to outstanding debt.
 For a company that was teetering on collapse, the terms were considered relaxed.
 ''In Russia, these things happen,'' Yevgeny G. Yasin, a former minister of the economy and currently the director of the Higher School of Economics in Russia, said in a telephone interview. He compared implicit state protection that prevented creditors from bankrupting Rusal to direct government bailouts for favored industries in the United States, like General Motors.
 Most Russian debtors that are a focus of concern globally, like Rusal, along with those in Middle East have succeeded in extending loans to avoid bankruptcy, Mr. Yasin said. This is delaying the process of sorting bad loans from those that may eventually be repaid, when commodity prices recover. 
 The foreign lenders for Rusal include the Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank, the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Barclays, Paribas, Commerzbank and Natixis, Bloomberg News reported. The Russian state foreign trade bank, whose chairman is Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, is the largest single creditor, with $4.5 billion outstanding.
 The final creditor to sign off on the restructuring is the British hedge fund BlueCrest Capital Management, the Russian business daily Vedomosti reported on Wednesday, allowing the agreement to take effect. The newspaper, citing a source close to Rusal, said a formal announcement was likely to be made this week.
 Included in the restructuring was a debt-for-equity swap by the billionaire investor Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the oligarch who recently made an offer to buy the New Jersey Nets basketball team. Mr. Prokhorov agreed to swap $2 billion in debt for shares in the company. 
 Rusal also plans to float an initial public offering of 10 percent of shares in Hong Kong and Paris that would, if successful, further diminish the stake of the principal owner, Oleg V. Deripaska, who currently owns 53 percent of the company. Banks froze debt repayment in March after aluminum prices tumbled in the crisis. The offering will most likely be viewed favorably by creditors because it will reduce debt; the restructuring was a prerequisite for the rights offering.
 After the offering, Mr. Deripaska will have slightly less than a controlling stake but would still own almost half of the aluminum maker. 
 ''These guys had the upper hand,'' a banker said of the Russians. This person works at a bank that is a former creditor to Rusal and was not authorized to discuss the debt talks publicly. ''They were negotiating with banks that were on their knees.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); DIVIDENDS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); BASKETBALL (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (90%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP INC (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); NATIXIS SA (52%)

TICKER: RUSAL (PAR) (90%); 0486 (HKSE) (90%); RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%); CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%); SMFG (NYSE) (53%); 8316 (TSE) (53%); KN (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (52%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



58 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS OPEN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: The Future Perfect Plants Its Flag in Manhattan

BYLINE: By ANDREA CODRINGTON

 BODY:
At a time when many people are cursing the economy, David Alhadeff, the owner of the Future Perfect, has reason to be grateful to it. Thanks to the reduced rents, he was recently able to open a Manhattan outpost of his Brooklyn design store, which will carry mostly contract and high-end residential furnishings. 
 The space has a distinctly industrial aesthetic, with steel floors and electrical cords dangling from the ceiling, and is filled with items that possess what he calls the ''flutter factor'' -- like a multileg cabinet in shiny Yves Klein blue by the Spanish design star Jaime Hayon.
 It also houses a workshop for the lighting designer Lindsey Adelman, who moved her operations from the Gowanus neighborhood of Brooklyn to a 400-square-foot studio at the back of the store.
 The benefits to Ms. Adelman, who is known for her exquisitely crafted handblown glass Bubble chandeliers, are clear: ''I don't need to edit myself,'' she said. ''Whatever I make can go straight to the floor.''
 For his part, Mr. Alhadeff explained, ''The Future Perfect has always been about community, and I've been working closely with Lindsey for the past six years.''
 Eventually, he said, he hopes to expand the Future Perfect community to include others, like Jason Miller, Stephen Burks, Donna Wilson, Ron Gilad and Alex Hellum, inviting them to create exclusive designs for the store.
 ''Everyone's excited about being in Manhattan,'' he said. ''Designers are saying things like, 'Great, what can we do?' ''
 In the meantime, Mr. Alhadeff said he is looking forward to celebrating the holidays: The Future Perfect has a pop-up shop selling tabletop and kitchenware designs at the Chelsea Market through the end of January. And on Dec. 10, Mr. Alhadeff is planning an opening for an installation of Constantin and Laurene Boym's Timeless Objects at the new store.
 ''We'll even have a Charlie Brown Christmas tree,'' he said.
 The Future Perfect Manhattan, 55 Great Jones Street (Bowery), (212) 473-2500 or thefutureperfect.com.
 ANDREA CODRINGTON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



59 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Oh, the Horror: 'Assembly Required'

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
THE other day, Terry Starr dredged up a suppressed memory, like a patient on an analyst's couch: the time she tried to build the deluxe SpongeBob Bikini Bottom Adventures Lego kit that her son received as a gift for his seventh birthday. 
 ''I remember hundreds and hundreds of pieces,'' she recalled. No, forget hundreds; ''it must have been a thousand pieces,'' she said. (For the record, it was 579 pieces.) 
 For hours she worked, her legs aching as she sat cross-legged on the floor of her suburban New Jersey living room. She had pages of directions, an impatient child and no adult to help. (She does have a spouse, but in this marriage, she is the toy builder because she has the better dexterity and spatial sense; her husband is called upon only when brute strength is required.)
 At last, she was getting close. 
 Then. ... 
 ''I could not find one piece,'' she said.
 One minuscule and absolutely necessary piece was missing. She and her son looked everywhere. He became so upset that he started breaking the pieces apart. She wept in frustration. ''Honestly, we could never complete the toy,'' she said.
 As another holiday shopping season gets under way, new toys will soon begin entering households in critical mass. To the consternation of countless parents like Ms. Starr, a startling number will need to be built. 
 For a variety of reasons -- from international trading patterns to the amount of shelf space at big domestic retailers -- toys are coming in more compressed packaging these days and with more dreaded assembly required. And many adults feel less and less up to the task. 
 ''I think it's true that toys do have more parts today,'' said Simmie Kerman, a co-owner of four toy stores called Barstons Child's Play, in the Washington-Baltimore area. Manufacturers, she explained, save on shipping and labor costs by packaging toys flat and unassembled. ''It keeps the costs down,'' she said. ''It's the Ikea model.''
 Consumers pay less as a result, but they bear a bigger burden when they open the box.
 Tim Walsh, a toy historian and author of a book called ''Timeless Toys: Classic Toys and the Playmakers Who Created Them,'' pointed to Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots, a hot toy of the 1960s that was reintroduced several years ago to the delight -- and then the dismay -- of many baby boomers.
 The original Rock 'Em Sock 'Ems could be lifted fully assembled out of the box and used immediately. Today's version must be put together, and the robots are considerably smaller in stature than their predecessors. Mr. Walsh speculated that the change is partly a response to retailers' desire to cram as much merchandise as possible onto their coveted shelf space.
 Then there's the ever-growing popularity and educational allure of so-called construction toys, like Legos; for them, building is supposed to be part of the point and part of the fun. Many such kits are no longer designed for open-ended, creative building, but rather to construct a precise model based on a licensed movie theme, for example ''Star Wars'' or ''Transformers.'' If a child can't recreate the spaceship or warrior by following pages of directions, it is up to the parents to do it.
 ''They'll help in the beginning, but in the end, it's me and my husband -- and they're watching TV,'' said Lori Harasem of Lethbridge, Alberta, referring to her attempts to assemble Transformers robots for her children, ages 11, 9 and 2. ''Often the directions aren't very clear, and suddenly you're disassembling.''
 As she spoke, she was looking out the window at a playhouse she had tried to assemble for her daughter. One of its walls had fallen down.
 Recognizing her customers' frustration -- and perhaps their mechanical shortcomings -- Ms. Kerman has her staff build some toys, like tricycles, anticipating that customers either won't be able to do it themselves or will do it wrong. In the case of other toys, like train tables, the store will assemble them for a modest fee of $10 or so. 
 ''My stores cater to a more urban clientele,'' she said. ''They are not out on the weekends tinkering with their car. Their handy skills have become less specialized.'' She added, ''Maybe we've all lost that skill'' of building things by hand.
 Still, toy industry observers say that the category of construction toys has experienced phenomenal growth over the last year, perhaps as adults seek to counter children's interest in all things electronic. (This is a category that includes toys like the 330-plus-piece Marble Mania Extreme construction set, which prompted the following comment on Amazon.com: ''OH MY GOD! YOU BETTER BE AN ENGINEER TO PUT THIS TOGETHER!!'') 
 Sales of construction sets grew 21 percent between August 2008 and August 2009, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm -- far faster than any other category (the closest was action figures and role-playing toys, with 14 percent growth). In fact, many categories, including youth electronics, experienced declines, as did toy sales overall.
 Lego, the granddaddy of construction toy companies, has had two record years, even in the face of the current recession: its sales grew 37 percent during 2008, and by the end of September 2009, they were up an additional 27 percent over September 2008.
 But as Ms. Harasem said: ''Just looking at the Lego packages makes me cringe. Someone had to put that together!''
 Michael McNally, brand relations director for Lego, sheds some light on the process that can lead to products like the Lego City Dozer (352 pieces), for ages 5 to 12, or the Lego ''Star Wars'' Death Star (3,803 pieces), for ages 12 and up or 14 and up, depending on which box or retail Web site you're looking at (the manufacturer's price, incidentally, is $399.99). Each Lego product, he said, goes through an extensive development process involving a ''model team,'' with careful attention paid to the abilities of the age groups for which the kits are intended. He also notes that the pieces can be used to build anything, not just the model on the box.
 The teams start with an end product and a price in mind -- say, a dinosaur for $29. Then they go back to the 7,500 different pieces in the company's existing stockpile and use them to build several different dinosaurs. And as they build, many team members wear gardening gloves, ''to replicate the motor skills of a 6- or 7-year-old,'' Mr. McNally said. 
 For kits designed for older children, the method is less scientific. ''The bulk of our product development focuses on the 6-to-10-year-old,'' he said.
 ''We stage it from there,'' he explained, concluding, for example, ''if an 8-year-old can do this, we think a 10-year-old can do this,'' and so on. 
 Then child testers build the products, and the team breaks down the building into steps, and debates how to write the directions.
 This all works beautifully for children like Tobey Bill, an 8-year-old third-grader in Weston, Conn., who will sit and study the directions for an hour, then build the Darth Vader Starship piece by piece without any parental help. 
 ''He has way more patience and focus than I ever could have,'' said his mother, Laura Davidson. ''I do think toys are getting more complicated. But as long as instruction manuals are good, I think it's good for a child to sit and focus.''
 For the others, there's the customer service hot line, which many toy companies have beefed up in recent years, said Reyne Rice, a trends specialist at the Toy Industry Association. ''I'd say in the last three years, that's really something manufacturers'' have paid attention to, she said.
 Indeed, if Ms. Starr had called the Lego customer service hot line, she would have been able to order that missing part. But her SpongeBob story didn't end with total defeat anyway. 
 It turns out, her son had received two SpongeBob Bikini Bottom Adventures kits for his birthday. Ms. Starr had intended to return the second and exchange it for another toy. But much to her dismay, her son opened the second box and wanted to build it.
 So, she said, ''We started over -- a month later, once my frustration had subsided.'' 
 And they built it.
 ''It was faster the second time,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ELWOOD H. SMITH) (D1)
 (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (86%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (74%); RETAILERS (70%); HISTORY (60%); WRITERS (60%); BABY BOOMERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



60 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Leverage and Ambition Put Dubai in a Tailspin

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
What's the difference between Dubai and Dubai World?
 Dubai's spectacular rise from a village of pearl fishermen 50 years ago to a commercial and financial hub of the Persian Gulf today was built on the idea that the state and its economic interests were inseparable.
 So, when a senior government official said this week that the government would not back the debt of Dubai World, Dubai's wholly owned investment vehicle, investors and creditors were stunned. 
 Was Dubai abandoning Dubai World, or was the move simply a negotiating ploy?
 Dubai is girding for weeks of arduous negotiations with creditors over restructuring Dubai World's debt. Despite attempts by the rulers of the emirates to calm the storm, outsiders still do not know what to make of the situation.
 According to investment bankers involved in the restructuring discussions, there are unlikely to be any quick sales of Dubai World assets. 
 For one thing, none of its properties -- a trove of real estate, leisure and financial services assets inside and outside Dubai, including troubled investments like its stake in the Barneys department stores in the United States and the City Center development in Las Vegas -- are likely to raise the $4 billion to $5 billion needed to satisfy bankers that they are serious about restructuring the $26 billion of debt under discussion.
 By contrast, a sale of Dubai's prized airline, or its aluminum and infrastructure companies -- most owned by the Investment Corporation of Dubai, the second of the two state-owned holding companies along with Dubai World -- could probably generate enough cash to satisfy bankers and help meet Dubai World's obligations.
 But such a move is highly unlikely, since it would mean a serious loss of face for Dubai and its ruler, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, who devised the highly intertwined and, it turns out, high-risk, corporatist model that is Dubai Inc.
 From the beginning of Dubai's rise, leverage was a driving force: Sheik Rashid bin Saeed al-Maktoum, the father of the current ruler, borrowed $:400,000 from Kuwait to dredge Dubai's creek in 1954 and create the land expansion that would come to house billions of dollars worth of office buildings and apartments, an increasing number of which now stand empty.
 Dubai's latter-day development has been founded on a series of corporate entities that, while controlled by the government of Dubai and its ruler, also assumed the trappings of private sector businesses.
 Westerners were hired to run many of these companies: the chief executives of two of Dubai World's main holdings, Nakheel and Istithmar, are, respectively, an Australian and an American. Some pursued limited public offerings and, without exception, they borrowed heavily from local and foreign banks.
 ''It was all very ambiguous, and deliberately so,'' said Jim Krane, author of ''City of Gold: Dubai and the Dream of Capitalism.'' ''When these companies became too capitalist they were split off from the bureaucracy and became state-run companies with autonomous decision-making and freedom of action.''
 As a result, Sheik Mohammed's guiding hand has been highly visible, operating through three main holding companies: Dubai Holding, a company he controls directly; and Dubai World and the Investment Corporation of Dubai, both fully owned by the government, which the sheik effectively runs.
 These three entities hold the purse strings of Dubai's quasi-government-owned companies, all of which pursue business activities that are supposed to advance the public sector goal of relentless economic growth while also generating profits to satisfy private sector investors.
 For a time this compact worked like a charm, turning the thriving city-state into a banker's paradise as airlines, real estate developers, public utilities and port operators borrowed furiously to finance their growth targets.
 But now it is clear that some of the investments have not generated enough cash to service the loans, and local and foreign bankers are unsure where they stand. 
 According to a report issued last year by Moody's, the credit rating agency, total revenue of Dubai companies was $30 billion in 2006, dwarfing central government receipts of $5.4 billion that year. 
 As Dubai turned its face ever more to the West, in contrast to the oil-rich but far more conservative Abu Dhabi, Dubai Holding and especially Dubai World began to operate as if they were dynamic growth companies rather than stodgy government enterprises.
 Nakheel, Dubai World's flagship real estate developer, came to define this go-for-broke attitude with its Western-style marketing blitzes and its ability to raise more than $6 billion from local and foreign bond investors.
 And even though Dubai did not have any consistent revenue to seed a sovereign fund, Dubai World began its own version of a government investment entity in Istithmar. Unlike cash-rich funds in the region, Istithmar used debt and a fair amount of swagger to transform an initial $2 billion cash stake from Dubai World into a $15 billion entity that in its outlook and approach was more a private equity fund than a sovereign fund. The problem was, all these corporate entities began to overwhelm the scale of the government that created them.
 Nonetheless, most investors were reassured by the close ties between state and business. For example, Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem, who runs Dubai World, and Mohammad al-Gergawi, the chairman of Dubai Holding, held seats on Dubai's Executive Council, giving them the effective rank of government ministers.
 So when Abdulrahman al-Saleh, the director general of Dubai's Department of Finance, said that the government of Dubai was not responsible for Dubai World's debts, he may have been simply restating what all the legal documents surrounding corporate bond offerings from Nakheel and others said in black and white. 
 Perhaps no edifice symbolizes Dubai's corporatist dream better than the Burj Dubai, built by Nakheel's rival, Emaar, part of the Investment Corporation of Dubai. Constructed at a cost of $4.1 billion, its needlelike spire soars 2,684 feet, more than half a mile, into the sky -- a breathtaking sight.
 Hoping to ascend to its top, Mohammed Ali, a retired civil servant from Abu Dhabi, took advantage of a national day here on Wednesday and brought his family to Dubai, only to learn that the tower's opening had been delayed yet again till early January.
 ''It is a very nice thing,'' he said, as martial music blared over loudspeakers and the fountains in the lagoon shot spray over the gawking crowd. ''But it's a waste of money. Millions of flats, but for whom? Now the investors, they have run away and they leave everything here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dubai owns a stake in Barneys, the United States department store chain, which has struggled in the downturn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Istithmar, one of Dubai World's many subsidiaries, invested in the Canadian entertainment group Cirque du Soleil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO VERDUGO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B2) CHART: A TROUBLED EMPIRE: Dubai World is trying to restructure about $26 billion in debt, but some subsidiaries are doing well, according to the company. (Sources: Dubai World
 moodys.com) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); RETAILERS (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: INVESTMENT CORP OF DUBAI (66%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



61 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Europe Stews As Its Clout Diminishes On Climate

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
The European Union has pushed harder for the Copenhagen conference on climate change to succeed than any other political entity.
 But just days before the opening of the United Nations-sponsored meeting on Monday, the Europeans have been largely pushed to the sidelines, watching as the world's two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, China and the United States, seek to set the rules of the game.
 ''That's of course the unfortunate situation for Copenhagen,'' said Jo Leinen, a German member of the European Parliament who will attend the 12-day conference, meant to find a deal to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. ''It's turning into a bit of a Ping-Pong match between China and the United States, with each just looking at the other.'' 
 Europeans say they are moving toward a low-carbon economy that could serve as a model for the rest of the world. But the bloc's ability to exercise influence through progressive standards and moral leadership, rather than superpower status, is facing a crucial test. ''The E.U., frankly, doesn't have the political clout to determine the outcome at Copenhagen,'' said Peter Haas, a professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
 The European Union still has much at stake, however. It is facing pressure, Mr. Haas added, to ''keep the prospects of a global deal alive so that European business leaders and voters believe they are on track to take advantage of green technology markets of the future.''
 That will be a challenge. The bloc remains internally divided on several issues, including how much to pay developing countries to limit emissions and how deeply to cut its own output. 
 European negotiators are also frequently at odds with their counterparts in the United States, who have criticized the legally binding structure created at Kyoto as cumbersome, unworkable and a threat to American sovereignty. Mistrust has lingered even after President Obama pledged to tackle the problem of greenhouse gases.
 The European Union made global climate control a key plank of its geopolitical strategy in 2001, when President George W. Bush said he would let the Kyoto Protocol languish.
 Europe, by contrast, developed new targets, subsidies and mechanisms to comply with the treaty, including a complicated system to cap carbon dioxide and trade emissions permits.
 Last year, in a bold move to stamp its environmental policies on the rest of the world, the European Union required all airlines arriving or leaving from its airports to buy some pollution credits beginning in 2012. But the move infuriated Washington, which said it risked breaking international aviation rules by forcing non-European airlines into the system. This summer, the Europeans were particularly irked by an American decision to negotiate with China bilaterally rather than attend climate talks under the United Nations umbrella.
 In October, European leaders agreed to pay a share into a global fund that would be worth $100 billion annually by 2020. European nations could not agree on how much should be contributed from the public purse.
 To help raise that money, the European Union wants to reach a deal at Copenhagen that would bring about the developed world's participation in a global carbon trading system.
 When Mr. Obama omitted any mention of money for developing countries last week, the European Commission tartly responded that finance was ''one element we need to continue to discuss.''
 The European Union also has taken a lukewarm view of Mr. Obama's provisional commitment to reduce the United States' emissions by 17 percent by 2020 compared to 2005 levels, which it views as falling far short of what is needed.
 The bloc's environment commissioner, Stavros Dimas, has called for Europe to unilaterally cut emissions by 30 percent from 1990 levels, from the current agreed offer of 20 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); AIRLINES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



62 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Honduran Congress Votes Down a Return by the Ousted President

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
The Honduran Congress voted Wednesday night against restoring the ousted president, Manuel Zelaya, to office to serve out the last two months of his term, throwing into further disarray an American-backed plan to end the country's political crisis. 
 Congress voted 111-14 to ratify its decision on June 28 to vote Mr. Zelaya out of office after he had been arrested by the military and flown out of the country. 
 One by one, the lawmakers announced their votes. Congressman Jose Simon Azcona said it was best for the country ''to turn the page and start anew.'' 
 The vote was stipulated in an accord the United States helped broker a month ago that was signed by Mr. Zelaya and the de facto president, Roberto Micheletti.
 The agreement had appeared to be a road map for a compromise between the feuding politicians. Once its conditions were met, American officials said, the accord would lead the international community to restore relations and economic aid to Honduras. 
 Congress's vote came three days after a general election -- set long before the political upheaval began -- that was won by a veteran conservative politician, Porfirio Lobo. He is to take office as president on Jan. 27.
 Mr. Zelaya, who has been hunkered down in the Brazilian Embassy in Tegucigalpa, the Honduran capital, since September, appeared to believe when he signed the deal that he had enough votes in Congress to be restored to office to complete his term. 
 That misjudgment leaves his future in doubt. The de facto government has said that it will arrest him on charges of corruption and abuse of power if he leaves the embassy. Mr. Lobo has refused to say whether his government would pursue those charges once he took office. 
 The plan, which Mr. Micheletti agreed to only after senior Obama administration officials landed in Tegucigalpa to take charge of the talks, also called for both sides to form a unity government; it is not clear how that could now take place without Mr. Zelaya. The remaining step was the naming of a truth commission, which has not occurred. 
 On Monday, the day after the election, Arturo Valenzuela, the American assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, told reporters in Washington that for Honduras to return to the good graces of the international community, all of the accord's conditions would have to be met. 
 But as the date grows closer for Mr. Lobo's inauguration, the de facto government and its allies may feel less pressure to act on the agreement. Mr. Lobo won the election handily, and although only a few Latin American countries have recognized the result, many nations issued statements acknowledging that the vote went smoothly. 
 American officials have said privately that many countries will eventually move toward recognizing the results. 
 Mr. Zelaya had asked his supporters to boycott the vote. After offering conflicting estimates of the turnout on Sunday, the electoral board had not issued a confirmed figure by Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOYCOTTS (77%); ARRESTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); CORRUPTION (71%)

PERSON: MANUEL ZELAYA (90%); PORFIRIO LOBO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) HONDURAS (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



63 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Down the Curtain on a Symbol of Blight

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
New York City's storefront gates, like its fire escapes and stoops, are there but not quite there: the unnoticed wallpaper of New York at night. They have been battered by vandals and defaced by graffiti taggers. They have secured diamonds, handmade tortellini and other valuable commodities. They have provided the clattering soundtrack of dawn and dusk, the steel canvas of struggling artists, the most compelling evidence that the city does, indeed, sleep. 
 And now, on orders of the City Council, roll-down gates have joined the ranks of fatty foods and cigarette smoke: they have been legislated against, some right into extinction. 
 The Council voted on Monday to ban the kind of security gates that completely shield commercial storefront windows and doors from view -- ones that resemble old-fashioned auto garage doors, with narrow horizontal slats that rise up like a steely sort of curtain -- while permitting the kinds of gates common in suburban shopping malls that allow passers-by to see inside. 
 Along Court Street in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn, a gentrifying commercial and residential strip in what remains an Italian stronghold, the gradual ban on solid gates -- there are probably tens of thousands of them -- was as well-received as a property tax hike. Not a single owner or manager who was interviewed was aware of the Council's vote. 
 The head-scratching dismay expressed by Pyung Lim Lee upon learning that City Hall had taken a regulatory interest in the rickety old solid gate outside C.H. Plaza Dry Cleaners, 400 Court Street, Brooklyn, N.Y., 11231, was typical.
 ''If the government pays, then O.K.,'' said Mr. Lee, the owner of the shop, who was not surprised to learn that the government would not, after all, be covering the cost of a new gate. ''They make law, law, law, and people's life is more difficult.''
 Frank Caputo took a more nuanced approach. He is the owner of Caputo's Fine Foods, a narrow little hub of homemade mozzarella and pastas, down the street from the church where Al Capone was married long ago. Since Caputo's was opened by his parents in 1973, the shop has had two gates, both of them the solid, no-peeking-in type. ''I was afraid that someone was going to break the glass,'' said Mr. Caputo, 47. 
 He has had the second gate -- a $4,000 model with an electric motor that allows him to turn a key or press a button to raise or lower it -- for about two years, and he figured that by 2026, when the ban fully kicks in, he would need to replace it, anyway. ''If they would have told me I had six months to replace it, I would have been upset,'' Mr. Caputo said.
 Council members said the bill, which passed 45 to 0, was intended to deter vandals from spraying graffiti on flat-surface gates, to help beautify neighborhoods and to give police officers and firefighters the ability to look inside in an emergency. The ban applies to numerous businesses, including banks, barber shops, beauty salons, health clinics, dry cleaners, dental offices and retail stores. 
 All businesses affected have until July 1, 2026, to install security gates that allow at least 70 percent of the area they cover to be visible. Any gates installed after July 1, 2011, must comply with the new requirements. 
 ''We took great pains in this bill to make sure we balanced quality-of-life issues and graffiti eradication with the real-life financial challenges small businesses are facing in this recession,'' said the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn. ''That's why the bill has a lengthy time frame.'' 
 The city's many storefronts, like their proprietors, have their own bedtime rituals. In the diamond district in Manhattan, many shops do not bother with roll-down gates: employees can be seen removing the jewelry, item by item, from the window displays, bound for parts unknown. 
 On one block of Court Street, the window of a barber shop with no gate afforded a full view inside (the old-fashioned cash register's empty drawer left open and the bill holders up), but the insurance office next door seemed to contain more secrets, with a solid gate, marred by graffiti.
 The metal gate covering G. Esposito & Sons' pork store offered a peek inside, but what was visible just inside the door would probably attract only the most desperate sort of burglar: a giant apron-clad, wide-eyed piggy statue. 
 Karen Van Every, the owner of Serimony, a card and gift shop, has a see-through gate, which she wanted so that passers-by could look inside when the store is closed. ''People walk by and they see a piece of jewelry in the window and they want to come back,'' she said. 
 Still, Ms. Van Every, like many other Court Street merchants, said she opposed the ban because of its eventual impact on businesses' bottom line. ''Every little cost associated with having a small business could put you under,'' she said. 
 The solid gates have a forbidding quality, recalling the bad old days of 1970s-era New York, when a desire to encourage window-shopping was superseded by a concern over rampant crime and occasional looting. 
 In some cases, they were no deterrent. In 1973, for example, five young burglars in the Bronx broke into a clothing store with a roll-down gate by cutting a hole in the roof. 
 But in other cases, solid gates might have helped. During the blackout that struck the city in the summer of 1977, looters ripped off nonsolid storefront gates by hooking chains to them, attaching the chains to cars and then stepping on the gas. 
 But sometimes no gate could have withstood looters' fury during the blackout. Jonathan Mahler, in his book ''Ladies and Gentlemen, The Bronx Is Burning: 1977, Baseball, Politics, and the Battle for the Soul of a City,'' described the scene in Bushwick: ''They were taking crowbars to steel shutters, prying them open like tennis-ball-can tops or simply jimmying them up with hydraulic jacks and then wedging garbage cans underneath to keep them open.'' 
 The gates, like all endangered species, have their own unique history. They have kept people in as much as out: In 2004, advocates for immigrants complained that janitors were getting trapped inside locked and gated groceries until managers arrived the next morning.
 In Bushwick years ago, some graffiti-tagged gates were painted over, without charge, by New Yorkers with little choice in the matter: petty criminals sentenced to perform community service. 
 On Court Street, many of the solid gates are marked with graffiti, but others have been used as billboards to advertise the stores they protect. Acorn Real Estate features an image of a giant acorn; R.P.T. Physical Therapy, nearby, had an artist paint its blue logo on its gate, a silhouette of a man over the phrase, ''Let Us Help You Reach Your Goals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gates like this one at a restaurant on First Avenue in Manhattan must eventually be replaced. (pg.A1)
Solid roll-down gates like this one on First Avenue become canvases for the spray-paint crowd.
Some gates are decorated with merchants' logos, or, like this one, bear relevant messages.
 Open-weave gates, like this one, which let passers-by peer in, will still be allowed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GRAFFITI (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); TAX LAW (67%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); TAX INCREASES (51%)

COMPANY: YORK WALLCOVERINGS INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); SIC2672 COATED & LAMINATED PAPER, NEC (91%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



64 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'INSIDE THE MIND OF GOOGLE'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Inside a Company That Mistook Itself for a Verb

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
The best way to watch ''Inside the Mind of Google,'' Maria Bartiromo's report on the Internet giant Thursday on CNBC, is to not watch the first quarter of it. 
 Instead spend that time Googling whatever it is you Google on a Thursday night. Then go tune in the program, already in progress. If you were to watch the insufferably cloying first segment, you'd never make it to the later parts, where the program gets to matters that should concern all of us. 
 Ms. Bartiromo begins with an exceedingly gushy tour of Google's headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., sounding as if she's on the payroll of the company's public-relations department. Such amazing cafeterias! Such wonderful employee perks! Such incredibly smart people everywhere! 
 It's the kind of mush that makes you go channel surfing, especially the endless prattle about how smart everyone at Google is. Lots of businesses are full of smart people. Some of them are laying those smart people off because their business models have been undercut by Google. Newspapers, for instance.
 This first segment is also where Ms. Bartiromo lets the Google barons spin out their promotional patter. For instance Eric Schmidt, the chief executive, talks about fostering a creative environment for his employees.
 ''Ultimately people stay in companies because they can achieve something,'' he says, inadvertently revealing what a bubble the profitable Google folks live in. Elsewhere people stay with a company because the economy has collapsed, and there's no place else to go. 
 Anyway, after about 12 minutes of such fluff Ms. Bartiromo turns into a real journalist, and this is the point at which you want to begin watching. She explores the issues raised by all that information Google stores about you: creepy issues of privacy that should trouble everyone. 
 If you followed the earlier instructions and spent the first part of the program Googling, all those searches you conducted -- on old boyfriends, or some disease you have, or your personal pornographic fetishes -- are now in Google's giant brain. 
 ''People turn to the search engine box and admit things to it that they would not admit to their doctor, their shrink, their priest, their wife or husband or anyone else, without a thought that all of these queries are being stored,'' says Kevin Bankston, a lawyer at the Electronic Freedom Foundation. Among other things, the government can then get at this information in legal proceedings. 
 And, of course, Google itself could use it if it wanted to, which, company officials say, it doesn't, except as a data source to refine its products. But, other experts and scholars explain to Ms. Bartiromo, no matter how benevolent and responsible Google seems now, there's no telling who will control it 10 years hence.
 The program also has illuminating segments on Google's efforts to break Apple's dominance in the cellphone-applications market and on exactly how the Google revenue-generating arm -- the Adwords system -- works, as seen through the eyes of a small boot-making business in Arizona. It is important to be informed about these things, since Google, which has existed only 11 years, will at the current pace own the entire world by 2020. Google Earth, as it were.
 Inside the Mind of Google
 CNBC, Thursday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
 Written by Wally Griffith and Morgan Downs; Mitch Weitzner, senior executive producer; Mr. Griffith, senior producer; Ms. Downs, producer; Lisa Orlando, Richard Korn and Patrick Ahearn, editors; Maria Bartiromo, correspondent. Produced by CNBC.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A television review on Thursday about ''Inside the Mind of Google'' on CNBC, using information provided by the channel, misstated part of the name of the organization for which Kevin Bankston, who comments on Google's storage of users' search queries, works as a lawyer. It is the Electronic Frontier Foundation, not the Electronic Freedom Foundation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria Bartiromo, left, with Marissa Mayer, a Google executive, at the company's headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNBC) (C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%); WRITERS (66%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (62%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%)

PERSON: MARIA BARTIROMO (90%); MARISSA MAYER (58%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



65 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Text of Admiral Mullen's Prepared Testimony

 BODY:
Here is the text of the prepared testimony of Adm. Michael G. Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Wednesday, as released in advance by his office. 
 Chairman Levin, Senator McCain and distinguished members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify on the subject of the President's newly announced strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan.
 The President's Tuesday evening announcement at West Point of our strategy and increased military resources for Afghanistan culminates a process of deliberate strategic review that began with the arrival of General McChrystal's interim assessment in early September. I believe this national-level review has been sober and essential. The challenges we face in Afghanistan and Pakistan are great, and our interests there are significant. This Administration needed to take the time to look at all the options and craft a balanced and sustainable approach. I believe that the review has met this aim.
 I support fully, and without hesitation, the President's decision. 
 Refining the Strategy
 The facts compel us to act. Our strategic review confirmed that the overarching policy goal remains the same: to disrupt, dismantle and defeat al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and to prevent its capacity to threaten America and our allies from either country in the future.
 South Asia is the epicenter of global Islamic extremism; the location of al Qaeda's core leadership and the terrain that dozens of Islamic terrorist groups call home. It is the location from which the 9/11 attacks on America were planned and driven. If the United States should be hit again, I remain convinced that the planning, training and funding for such an attack will emanate there. It is a region where a nuclear weapons state, Pakistan, is under direct threat from al Qaeda and affiliated Pakistani-Taliban groups that aspire to acquire and use nuclear weapons against the United States and our allies. Thus, it is a region with a unique -- and deadly -- combination of the most dangerous terrorists and the most dangerous technology in the world. Our actions in Pakistan and Afghanistan seek to prevent catastrophic outcomes from these toxic forces, and constitute a most critical national interest.
 Our strategic review paid particular attention to Pakistan. The people of Pakistan are under as much, if not greater, threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorism than are we. We must encourage and aid the Pakistani military fight against these extremists in South Waziristan, in SWAT, and across Pakistan. We must also help Pakistan widen its aperture in seeking out and eliminating all forms of extremism and terrorism -- those who threaten not only Pakistan, but also Afghanistan, the wider South Asia region, and the globe. We are deepening ties with the people of Pakistan as well as with their security forces. We see progress with our Pakistani allies as paramount to the way ahead.
 In Afghanistan, we narrowed-in on a challenging, but attainable goal: to deny al Qaeda safe haven and the Afghan-Taliban the ability to overthrow the duly elected Afghan government. To achieve this refined strategic aim, we must continue to deny al Qaeda any Afghanistan toe-hold, reverse the momentum of the Taliban insurgency, and build sufficient Afghan government and security capacity to eventually defeat the insurgent threat. Our review also narrowed and refined the military objectives for General McChrystal's NATO-ISAF force -- focusing it on security of key population areas while Afghan forces grow in size and capability, prioritizing a robust NATO-ISAF program of training and mentoring Afghan military and police, and establishing the conditions necessary for Afghans to assume their own security. Each of these objectives will hasten the day when we can begin thinning the U.S./NATO-ISAF security forces presence, turning the internal security of Afghanistan over to the Afghans. This strategy provides the time and space for the Afghans themselves to build sufficient security and governance capacity to stabilize their country.
 Our refined military objectives for Afghanistan complement those in the political and economic spheres. They also support diplomatic, political, and military programs that the President's strategy calls for us to undertake with neighboring countries -- especially Pakistan -- that increase pressure against al Qaeda's leadership; that expand counterinsurgency operations against Taliban insurgents who threaten Afghanistan, Pakistan and the wider region; and that help set the conditions for improved regional security and stability.
 Matching Strategy and Resources
 Throughout this strategic review, I advised the Secretary of Defense and the President that our commitment of military resources must match our strategy.
 I am pleased to inform this Committee that the President's decision accommodates this advice. The strategy he approved commits 30,000 more U.S. forces, with some number of additional enablers, while calling for our NATO and non-NATO allies to generate additional forces. This rapid, Coalition-wide buildup of force aligns with General McChrystal's recommendations, even more so in light of the narrowing of objectives for Afghanistan that the President announced Tuesday night.
 The President's commitment is to rapidly send these additional forces forward--to get as much force into the fight as fast as General McChrystal can absorb it. This allows Generals McChrystal and Petraeus to plan for cohesive logistics and transportation support over the course of the coming year. While there are no guarantees in war, I expect that we will make significant headway in the next 18-24 months. I also believe we could begin to thin our combat forces in about the same time frame. From a military standpoint, the President's commitment to an increase in military force, especially backed by an increase in civilian resources, is much better than one featuring periodic assessments that trigger incremental force escalation.
 The President's decision also supports accelerated expansion of Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) -- a critical initiative. We simply must invest in the growth of an Afghan security force--through more radical and in-depth partnering. The additional U.S. and Coalition forces heading to Afghanistan will focus a great amount of time and energy toward empowering a strong and capable ANSF.
 General McChrystal intends to use these additional U.S. troops to conduct more focused counterinsurgency operations that enhance population security against the Taliban in south and east Afghanistan. As in Iraq, our troops will live among the population. Thus -- and as General McChrystal has successfully emphasized since his arrival as COMISAF last June -- we will continue to make every effort to eliminate civilian casualties, not just because this is the right thing to do, but because these casualties work against our goal of Afghan population security. Although we must expect higher Alliance casualties in coming months as we dedicate more U.S. forces to protect the population and mentor the ANSF, our extended security presence must -- and will -- improve security for the Afghan people and limit both future civilian and military casualties Moving Forward - Conclusion No commitment of additional force in the number we plan for Afghanistan is without risk. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and I assess the risks to our military forces and our military missions -- at home and abroad -- from this force deployment decision to be acceptable. We can continue to balance the additional force flow requirements for Afghanistan against those coming available from draw-down trajectory programmed for, and on track in, Iraq.
 I believe that progress in Afghanistan and Pakistan will be gradual, and sometimes halting. Yet I believe we can succeed. The President's announced strategy and this force flow decision give us the best possible chance for success.
 We must exhibit vision, apply sufficient resources, and display endurance to realize our objectives for Afghanistan and Pakistan. Most challenges we now confront in the South Asia region are not military in nature. They require solutions from and led by national and local governments. Yet none of these solutions are possible in an environment of insecurity. Our role must be to fill the security gap for a short time, concurrently growing our partner government's capacity to self-secure. Pursued with resolve, our actions will send an unmistakable message that the U.S. remains committed to the common good, while steadily expanding the sets of partnerships available to address future challenges without a long-term need for large numbers of U.S. combat forces.
 In providing advice to this President over the past 10 months, one important point I have made, consonant with other key presidential advisers, is that our military activities must support rather than lead our Nation's foreign policy. Our war fighting ability will never be in doubt. But we have learned from the past eight years of war that we serve this Nation best when we are part of a comprehensive, integrated approach that employs all elements of national power to achieve the policy goals set by our civilian leaders. This approach remains crucial in Afghanistan, Pakistan and across South Central Asia.
 On behalf of our service members, I would like to thank the members of this Committee -- and the Congress as a whole -- for the sustained investment in our brave young men and women in uniform, and for your unwavering support of them and their families as they continue to serve so magnificently and selflessly in this time of protracted war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (91%); ARMED FORCES (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALIBAN (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); RELIGION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); AL-QAEDA (82%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



66 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports Modest Gains in Economy

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The economy continues to show weak and sluggish signs of renewal, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday, as banks wrestle with lackluster demand for loans and commercial real estate markets deteriorate. 
 The Fed's regular roundup of economic conditions in the United States, based on interviews in late October and November and released Wednesday, registered little or no change in four of 12 regions: Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond and Atlanta.
 But the Fed said there were indications of renewal in consumer spending, manufacturing and the housing market, and it noted that auto sales were picking up.
 The Fed will factor in observations from the report, known as the Beige Book, when it sets monetary policy this month. The report's cautious tone, however, seemed unlikely to induce policy makers to move interest rates from record lows.
 In crisp and unemotional terms, the report provided little reassurance that the American economy would be roaring again anytime soon. ''Economic conditions have generally improved modestly,'' the Fed concluded. 
 James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global, said the central bank's assessment suggested that worries about the economy falling into another deep downturn were unfounded.
 ''A sustained recovery is under way, but the jury is still out on how strong it's going to be,'' he said. ''There's nothing here to support double-dip fears.''
 The demand for loans, particularly from businesses, declined in half of the regions, the Fed said. In addition, banks reported more stringent credit standards, feeding worries that consumers, nervous about their job prospects and income levels, would continue to rein in spending.
 Commercial real estate also continued to weigh on many regions, as vacancy rates increased, rents decreased and construction remained lackluster, the report said. The Fed characterized real estate as ''very weak and, in many cases, deteriorating.'' At the same time, home sales picked up, though prices were flat.
 The labor market in particular remained poor, though the report said there were ''scattered signs of improvement.'' Wages remained low in most areas, and the rate of job losses slowed in places like Atlanta, Cleveland and Richmond.
 Unemployment will remain the focus this week as economists look for hints of whether the job markets will worsen. Last month, the unemployment rate reached 10.2 percent, its highest level in 26 years. The government will release its monthly barometer of the jobless situation on Friday, and analysts expect the unemployment rate to hold steady. 
 On Wednesday, an independent report on unemployment showed that private firms in the United States cut 169,000 jobs in November, the smallest number since July 2008. The number of planned layoffs also decreased.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



67 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PRACTICALLY SPEAKING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Ringing In The Holiday But Sharing The Bill

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
A FEW months ago, this holiday season looked to be another bleak one for the caterers and event planners who orchestrate big corporate parties.
 Gone were the lavish affairs of just a few years ago. Even scaled-down events were few and far between as the economy continued to sputter. 
 That was basically the genesis for a different sort of holiday gathering: one event ''shared'' by a hodgepodge of smaller companies on limited budgets. Name tags, it seems, are a must accessory. 
 This is how an invitation to a ''Bring Your Own Business'' party from the Wilshire Grand Hotel in West Orange, N.J., puts it: ''What's better than a holiday party for one company? A holiday party for 10 companies.''
 The concept is not new. The Mohegan Sun in Connecticut has been running a shared holiday party for most of the decade. The casino will hold its eighth annual Big Little Holiday Party on Friday.
 Meryl and Andrew Snow, owners of Feastivities Events, a catering company in Philadelphia, are promoting their own variation of shared parties and calling them Snow Balls, according to Ms. Snow.
 The couple came up with the idea of opening one event to many companies as corporate clients eliminated entertainment budgets or could not entertain so lavishly because of the recession, Ms. Snow said. ''We wanted to be as proactive as possible and said, 'Why not do a full-blown holiday gala and open it to small and midsize companies in Philadelphia and its suburbs?' ''
 The first B.Y.O.B. party at the Wilshire Grand will be held Thursday evening. Wilshire caters the party and is working with Jersey Street Furniture Rental to stage it with a New York City-style lounge decor. Unique Musique, a local disc jockey, is providing the entertainment, and the Hip Event, an event and marketing company, has helped with promotion.
 The more local companies that participate, the cheaper the cost per person.
 When it comes to the recession, said Steve Novich, partner at Jersey Street Furniture Rental in Clifton, N.J., ''we are not out of the woods yet.''
 Other business owners feel the same, he said. ''No one is giving a bonus, but you still have to give your people some love. They have to know that they are wanted. You have to give back something.''
 In promoting the parties, organizers are pitching another benefit to smaller businesses -- the ability to network. ''That was a consideration as well,'' Mr. Novich said. ''You could get together with a bunch of other law firms, dentists, doctors, and you could network and share in a different relaxed atmosphere. It helps people grow their business.''
 While networking opportunities have an appeal for small-business owners, customers always come first.
 According to the American Express Open Small Business Holiday Monitor, 42 percent of the 516 owners or managers surveyed by telephone said that they planned a holiday party, compared with 49 percent a year earlier and 54 percent in 2006.
 By contrast, 47 percent of owners or managers this year said they intended to give clients presents compared with 35 percent who said they would shop for employees. This year, 82 percent of owners said the No. 1 reason for giving gifts to customers was to say thank you. That compared with 64 percent in 2008.
 Total customer gift budgets have remained steady, according to American Express: $455 in 2009 versus $457 in 2008.
 Plans to give employee year-end bonuses, meanwhile, dropped to 31 percent this year from 44 percent in 2008.
 ''Employee celebration and thanks is a place where small-business owners are looking to save,'' said Alice Bredin, a small-business adviser for American Express Open. Shared celebrations could be one way of doing so, she said.
 ''Even for the business owners feeling good right now, money is still really tight,'' Ms. Bredin said. ''They know they have to thank customers so there will be a business to run. They feel employees will have to wait another year, in most cases.''
 Costs for the shared parties vary. At the Wilshire on Dec. 3, 9, 18 and 23, groups of 30 pay $99.99 for each person, and the cost decreases as the number of guests increases -- up to 300 guests can gather for $69.99 each.
 Snow Ball guests pay $145 apiece for cocktails, dancing, entertainment and a sit-down dinner every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in December and the first week in January at the Phoenixville Foundry in Phoenixville, Pa.
 For the Big Little Holiday Party on Dec. 4, Mohegan Sun is seeking a 10-person commitment for each $475 table to bring the cost to $47.50 a person. In addition to a cash bar, there are salad, carving and dessert stations, as well as dancing.
 For the last seven years, Mohegan Sun has filled its 1,100-guest quota, according to Richard Zazzaro, vice president of food and beverage. The concept came from the catering team, which was seeking to promote the casino's new convention center in 2002, he recalled. ''It was so well received, one year we did it twice.''
 ''It's been very popular with small businesses like hair salons, small legal firms, professionals that don't have the big office parties,'' Mr. Zazzaro added. ''They can get the feeling of a big party without, one, having to spend a lot of money, or two, having to plan it.''
 Amanda Spear, project manager at the Connecticut office of the EPS Corporation, based in California, is a repeat customer.
 ''We were so impressed with it last year, we're coming back,'' Ms. Spear said. A team of about 30 will attend the Big Little Party on Friday. In addition to the festive atmosphere and ability to mingle with other companies, she said, the setting itself is a draw. ''It's just the whole feeling of being in the casino.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Novich of Jersey Street Furniture Rental in Clifton, N.J., arranging seating for the ''Bring Your Own Business'' party on Wednesday at the Wilshire Grand Hotel in West Orange, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH SIMONIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CATERING SERVICES (90%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



68 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Expects Bailout Program to End Soon

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner affirmed Wednesday the administration's intent to end the $700 billion financial bailout program soon.
 Although Mr. Geithner did not provide details, he said the government was close to the point at which ''we can wind down this program'' and end it.
 ''Nothing would make me happier,'' he told the Senate Agriculture Committee. 
 Some lawmakers have been agitating for an exit from the politically unpopular bailout program, approved by Congress at the height of the financial crisis in October 2008 as a way to supply banks with fresh capital.
 Mr. Geithner said legislation to bring transparency to the global, unregulated $600 trillion derivatives market was needed soon to restore confidence in the financial system. He faced friendly questioning from the agriculture panel, in sharp contrast to a sometimes contentious hearing two weeks ago by the Joint Economic Committee -- with one lawmaker calling on him to resign.
 But there was gentle prodding from some senators Wednesday regarding the Treasury Department's so-called Troubled Assets Relief Program.
 Mr. Geithner said at the Nov. 19 hearing that ''substantial resources'' remaining in the TARP fund would be used to pay down the national debt, which is being pushed higher by record deficits including a $1.42 billion imbalance for the budget year that ended Sept. 30. Even hundreds of billions of dollars would be a fraction of the $12 trillion debt, but it could lessen political unhappiness if portions of the bailout program are allowed to continue.
 With regard to derivatives, the complex instruments blamed for hastening the financial crisis, some lawmakers want to exempt companies that use them to hedge against risk from new requirements in the overhaul legislation.
 A potent coalition of about 170 so-called end-user companies -- including the Boeing Company, Caterpillar, the Ford Motor Company, the General Electric Company and the Shell Oil Company -- has been lobbying Congress with the message that regulation of derivatives without exceptions could severely increase costs for corporations. That could mean higher costs passed on to consumers and imperiled jobs, they contend.
 ''Many end users have told me this would add considerable costs and would likely be passed along to consumers,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the committee's senior Republican.
 Mr. Geithner said exemptions should apply to a ''limited number of nonfinancial companies ... people that are making things and selling things across the country.''
 The value of derivatives hinges on an underlying investment or commodity -- such as currency rates, oil futures or interest rates. The derivative is designed to reduce the risk of loss from the underlying asset.
 Credit default swaps, a form of insurance against loan defaults, account for an estimated $60 trillion of the worldwide derivatives market. The collapse of the swaps brought the downfall of Wall Street banking house Lehman Brothers and nearly toppled American International Group last year at the height of the crisis, spurring the government to support the insurance conglomerate with about $180 billion in aid.
 The administration's proposal is close to the legislation in the House, requiring most derivatives trades to go through clearinghouses to bring transparency, and subjecting financial firms dealing in the instruments to new capital requirements.
 All derivatives contracts that are ''liquid and standardized'' -- backed with cash and not designed for specific users in a transaction -- should go through well-regulated clearinghouses, Mr. Geithner said. There should be a presumption that a contract accepted for clearing by one of the houses and approved by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission must be centrally cleared.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUDGETS (79%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); FUTURES (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); CURRENCIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); SHELL OIL CO (64%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (64%); BOEING CO (64%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (64%); GEC (LSE) (64%); GE (SWX) (64%); GE (NYSE) (64%); BOE (LSE) (64%); BAB (BRU) (64%); BA (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (64%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



69 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FITNESS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Becoming Your Own Massage Therapist

BYLINE: By DIMITY McDOWELL

 BODY:
AS a former cross-country runner for the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where a free massage was part of an athlete's weekly schedule, Briana Boehmer remembers the benefits of having qualified hands work her sore muscles. 
 Now that she is 30 and starting a corporate wellness business with her husband, Mrs. Boehmer no longer enjoys such a perk, so she massages her muscles herself. She works out about seven hours a week, training for triathlons and duathlons, and begins and ends each session by kneading her back and legs on a foam roller, which she calls her ''best friend.'' 
 ''It's like getting a massage without having to pay $85 an hour,'' she said. ''I can't afford the real thing right now.'' 
 Devices for self-massage have become more common as more people compete in endurance sports and, more recently, as the recession has made professional rubdowns look prohibitively expensive. Trainers usually recommend a massage every week or every other week for people who are training for a marathon or triathlon, but the costs do add up: according to the American Massage Therapy Association, the average price of a massage is $63 an hour. 
 Though a massage may sound like a luxury, it can become a necessity as part of a training regimen. When the same muscles are forced to do the same motions over and over, they become tight and injury-prone. 
 For instance, ''riding on aerobars on the bike sets up a huge muscle imbalance in the upper back and shoulders,'' said Tim Crowley, a triathlon coach in Marlboro, Mass. ''Hip flexors, hamstrings and glutes become extremely tight and immobile from running.'' 
 While it's hard to say how many people do self-massage, many athletes swear by it, and a growing range of products and how-to videos is available in stores and online. A foam roller, which costs about $25, is just one of a family of products, manufactured or improvised, that can relieve tight muscles. 
 ''In the late '90s, you could only find foam rollers through physical therapy catalogs,'' said Keats Snideman, a massage therapist and conditioning coach in Tempe, Ariz., who produced a DVD about self-massage. ''Now you can buy them anywhere, and exercises with them are all over YouTube.''
 In addition to the many name-brand products that are sold specifically as massage aids, old-fashioned household objects will do, too. Most small balls, including golf, tennis, baseball and lacrosse balls, can unkink sore muscles.
 Rich Poley, author of the book ''Self-Massage for Athletes,'' favors using your own hands. But he is also a fan of the Knobble II, a mushroom-shaped device that can be used to press on muscles at specific trigger points to try to break up knots, and the Thera Cane, a hook that can be used to reach points on the back. 
 For all its advantages, self-massage has its limitations. Cassidy Phillips, founder of Trigger Point Performance Therapy, considers it the equivalent of oral hygiene. ''You brush away some plaque yourself,'' he said, ''but you still go to the dentist for a thorough cleaning.'' His company, based in Austin, Tex., sells self-massage tools for athletes. 
 Clearly, a massage from a trained therapist can be more effective -- and relaxing -- than a self-administered massage. A therapist also has a comprehensive knowledge of anatomy and can help with injuries, like muscle strains, that may not respond to self-massage.
 ''A foam roller can't alleviate deep trigger points the way an experienced thumb or knuckle can,'' said Collette Glass, a sports massage therapist in Atlanta. 
 Yet Mrs. Glass, whose livelihood depends on athletes who need her care, is a proponent of self-massage. She and her husband, Dr. Josh Glass, a sports chiropractor, hold self-care seminars in the Atlanta area several times a year. ''The message we stress through the whole demonstration,'' she said, ''is that self-massage keeps you out of our offices.'' 
 Any kind of massage --the professional type and the D.I.Y. -- can stimulate blood flow and break up scar tissue, thus reducing an athlete's risk of injury, Mrs. Glass said. ''In massage, shortened, overworked muscles get flushed out and return to a normal length, which helps them properly recover,'' she said. When she was training for Ironman triathlons in 2006 and 2008, she said, she used a roller every day to soothe her iliotibial bands (tendons that run along the outside of the upper leg).
 Jenni Gaertner, a physical therapist and competitive cyclist in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, also advocates a combination approach. ''I go to a massage therapist only during racing season, because it can be so expensive,'' she said. ''But I use a foam roller year-round and prescribe it to patients and teammates.''
 ABBY RUBY, an athlete and coach from Manitou Springs, Colo., massaged her muscles daily while training for a 100-mile trail run in Leadville, Colo., this year. She doesn't leave home without her tools: half of a foam roller and a small ball from Trigger Point Performance Therapy. ''I sit on the ball on flights to release my piriformis,'' she said, referring to a muscle deep within the hip and buttock region. 
 Convenience and affordability are the selling points for Ms. Ruby. ''When I need a massage, I need it now, not next Wednesday at 3 p.m.,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE THERAPIST CAN WAIT: Michael and Briana Boehmer use foam rollers for a do-it-yourself massage that helps prevent sore muscles from workouts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MASSAGE SERVICES (93%); RUNNING (91%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS (88%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); MARATHONS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); LACROSSE (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); WRITERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); AMERICAN MASSAGE THERAPY ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (88%); ARIZONA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



70 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Elusive Goal Of Greening U.S. Energy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Great Green Hope for lifting America's economy is not looking so robust. 
 President Obama, both during his campaign and in his first year in office, has promoted the promise of new jobs in cutting-edge, nonpolluting industries, and such green jobs will be a major issue at his jobs ''summit'' meeting Thursday. 
 But, increasingly, skeptics who point to the need for more jobs are wondering why he is not doing more to create green jobs faster. 
 Growth in clean energy industries and in green jobs has been considerably slower and bumpier than anticipated, industry experts say. 
 But rather than giving up on its green jobs mantra, the White House will rededicate itself to promoting green industries at the jobs meeting, which will bring together business and labor leaders, politicians and economists.
 The initial promise of green jobs was based on governments around the world declaring the fight against global warming to be a priority. The theory was that jobs in environmentally minded companies would grow rapidly as a result. But instead, some green-industry companies have been shedding jobs in the United States, and in some cases moving them to China. 
 Last week, the Gamesa wind turbine plant in western Pennsylvania announced it was laying off nearly half its 280 workers. Last month, General Electric said it would close a solar panel factory in Delaware, while Evergreen Solar, which received $58 million in state aid to build a 900-employee plant northwest of Boston, said it would move some assembly to China, costing 250 jobs. 
 There are myriad reasons why green jobs have grown more slowly than hoped. The clean energy component of the $787 billion stimulus package has only recently started to kick in. Energy experts say that banks, which have been reluctant to lend generally, have been especially loath to lend for alternative energy projects. 
 And renewable-energy companies are hesitating to invest in new plants and equipment before Congress enacts new environmental mandates, like cap and trade, to limit carbon emissions. In addition, the long recession (along with correspondingly slack energy demand) caused the clean-energy industry to delay expansion plans. 
 As a result, the United States is likely to install just one-eighth as much new solar power this year as Germany does, and China is expected to surpass the United States this year as the leader in adding new wind energy capacity. 
 ''The renewable energy industry in the U.S. is an underdeveloped developing industry,'' said Michael Peck, director of external affairs for Gamesa USA, a Spanish-owned company that has two wind turbine factories in Pennsylvania. ''Manufacturers, developers, utilities, financiers -- they don't see the legislative pieces that they're all hoping for to help the industry move forward.''
 Recently, the Obama administration has taken several steps it says will soon produce thousands of green jobs. In August, it announced $2.3 billion in tax credits that will go to manufacturers of clean energy technologies. It has also allocated $6 billion for loan guarantees that could, in turn, generate $60 billion in investments. 
 The administration notes that Solyndra, a company that makes solar photovoltaic panels in Fremont Calif., received a $535 million loan guarantee to finance a manufacturing plant, creating 3,000 construction jobs and 1,000 permanent jobs.
 In addition, the government's $11 billion program to modernize the nation's power grid -- to make it easier to absorb electricity generated by wind and solar power -- is just getting off the ground, officials say. They say the weatherization part of the stimulus package has already put many people to work in California, Ohio, Georgia and other states, and that number is expected to more than double this winter and spring. 
 While many green industry executives and environmental experts applaud these efforts, they say more needs to be done. Some note that even with the administration's recent moves, it has spent less than one-fourth of the $80 billion clean energy component of the stimulus package. 
 Administration officials boast that the $80 billion figure is by far the largest amount ever committed to renewable energy.
 Within industry and the environmental movement, there are recurring calls for Congress to require the nation to generate 15 percent or 20 percent of its energy through renewable sources by a specific year, say 2020. General Electric, which has 10,000 wind turbines in the United States, says that to encourage growth in the wind industry, the nation should adopt a target of obtaining 12 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2012.
 ''The clean energy market is gigantic and growing,'' said Phyllis Cuttino, a director of the Pew Charitable Trusts' Environmental Group. ''The U.S. has a rich manufacturing base, a well educated work force and we are an innovation center. But if we don't have the policies in place to make investment here a sure thing, then we could potentially lose to other countries. Other countries are jumping in. They have policies to take a lot of projects to scale, and that's what's missing in the United States.''
 Nathaniel Bullard, a solar analyst at the research firm New Energy Finance, added, ''In the U.S. there are problems arranging the project financing that is driving growth in countries like Spain.'' Spain ranks second behind Germany and ahead of the United States in adding annual solar capacity.
 Even so, many wind and solar companies are expanding in the United States, often in states with renewable energy standards. First Solar is starting a fourth production line at its photovoltaic cell factory in Perrysburg, Ohio, adding 140 jobs to the 560 there. First Solar also hopes to use federal loan guarantees to build a 30-megawatt generating facility in Cimarron, N.M., creating 200 construction jobs.
 A Dow Corning joint venture in Midland, Mich., is building a plant to make silicon wafers for photovoltaic cells. In a surprise to many, Suntech, the giant Chinese solar manufacturer, is building a factory in the Phoenix area -- to expand in the American market and deflect protectionist pressures. 
 These modern factories are forcing some older, less efficient factories to close, especially with China's surge in solar panel production pushing down prices by 30 percent. 
 Rhone Resch, president of the Solar Energy Industries Association, said there would be more such investment in the United States if it had incentives like those in China, Malaysia or South Korea.
 ''In China, 80 percent of the entire cost of a factory and worker training is paid for by the government,'' Mr. Resch said. ''Malaysia will give you a 10- or 20-year tax holiday.''
 He praised Mr. Obama's $2.3 billion tax credit program, but said its 30 percent credits were not nearly as generous as China's. 
 Mr. Resch said it was important to remember that for every solar manufacturing job there are 8 to 10 jobs installing solar panels. That is hardly reassuring to advocates of American manufacturing who argue that the renewable energy industry needs to have lots of $20-an-hour factory jobs and not just $10-an-hour installation jobs.
 ''As a country we need to make a decision that we do or don't want to be a leader in this area,'' said Cathy Calfo, executive director of the Apollo Alliance, a coalition of business, environmental, labor and community groups pushing for clean energy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama, when he was seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, visited a wind turbine being built in Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); JOB CREATION (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); EMISSIONS (70%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



71 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Senate Breaks Health Stalemate; First Votes Today

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At the end of a third day of Senate debate over sweeping health care legislation, Democrats and Republicans said Wednesday night that they had broken an impasse over the seemingly simple question of how and when to vote on the first amendments.
 But even as lawmakers announced an agreement to begin voting Thursday, Democrats accused Republicans of stalling debate and obstructing the legislation. 
In a closed-door meeting of his caucus, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, told Democrats that Republicans were not interested in passing a bill. In effect, he prepared them for trench warfare, saying the Democrats must stick together and should be ready to work weekends to finish the bill before Christmas.
 For their part, Republicans said it was unrealistic to expect quick action on such a big bill, and they denied they were stalling.
 ''That's an odd charge about a bill that would cost $2.5 trillion, when fully implemented, and restructure one-sixth of the economy, affecting 300 million people,'' said the Senate's No. 3 Republican, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee. 
 Noting that the Senate had spent one month on a farm bill, seven weeks on an education bill and eight weeks on an energy bill, Mr. Alexander said, ''Surely we can spend at least that much time on a comprehensive health care bill.''
 Democrats need at least 60 votes to limit debate on the measure, whose overarching purpose is to guarantee insurance for most Americans while curbing the growth of health care costs and federal health spending.
 Senate leaders of both parties said they would vote Thursday on four proposals dealing with two issues: how to guarantee additional health benefits for women and how to squeeze nearly a half-trillion dollars from Medicare over 10 years without adversely affecting older Americans.
 Democrats offered one proposal to cover a wide range of screenings and preventive health services for women. Republicans drafted an alternative, intended to outdo the Democrats.
 Republicans offered a proposal to strike provisions of the bill that would save money in Medicare. Democrats came back with an alternative that would protect ''guaranteed Medicare benefits'' -- not necessarily the extra benefits offered by private Medicare Advantage plans, which cost the government more, on average, than the traditional Medicare program.
 The agreement to hold votes on Thursday followed some testy exchanges on the floor.
 ''We are going to go into the fourth day of the debate on one of the most important bills in the history of the United States Senate,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat. ''The fact is we've not had a single vote this week on health care reform amendments, because of objections from the other side.'' 
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, protested that ''Republicans were prepared and fully ready and willing to vote.'' Mr. McConnell said Democrats shared responsibility for the delay because they had rejected a Republican offer to vote on two of the proposals Wednesday night rather than all four at once. Democrats feared that such votes would lead the Republicans to stretch out any voting on the two remaining proposals.
 As the skirmishing continued on the floor, the American Medical Association endorsed the thrust of the Senate bill. In a letter to Mr. Reid, the doctors' group praised the measure's strict federal regulation of health insurance and new tax credits to help low- and moderate-income people buy coverage. 
 But the medical association objected to some provisions, including a new tax on ''elective cosmetic medical procedures'' and creation of an Independent Medicare Advisory Board that could ''mandate payment cuts for physicians.''
 The association also objected to antifraud provisions that it said could penalize doctors who make ''an honest mistake,'' with no intent to defraud Medicare or Medicaid. And it complained about a section that would impose new restrictions on doctor-owned hospitals. 
 Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, hundreds of supporters of abortion rights held a rally Wednesday to insist that the legislation allow insurance coverage of abortion. They denounced restrictions on abortion that were accepted by House Democratic leaders as the price of passing their version of the legislation last month.
 Representative Judy Chu, Democrat of California, said ''women will lose benefits'' under the House bill, which she described as ''the biggest rollback of reproductive rights in decades.''
 Marcia D. Greenberger, co-president of the National Women's Law Center, an advocacy group, said the House bill went to ''ridiculous extremes'' in trying to prevent the use of federal money to pay for abortions. 
 Senators Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, and Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said they would try to add similar restrictions to the Senate bill. Senate supporters of abortion rights said that they were confident they could defeat such proposals but that they needed a large majority vote to give the Senate a strong hand in expected negotiations with the House. 
 The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops said the Senate bill, in its current form, ''does not live up to President Obama's commitment of barring the use of federal dollars for abortion.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lamar Alexander, left, denied Democratic accusations that Republicans were engaged in delay. He and a fellow Republican, Senator Johnny Isakson, met with reporters on health care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CHRISTMAS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%)

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (78%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



72 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Reactions Vary As Europeans Weigh Appeal From Obama

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Steven Erlanger and Nadim Audi contributed reporting from Paris, and Victor Homola from Berlin.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As political and military leaders across the globe pondered President Obama's announcement of his Afghan strategy, European allies offered a mixed response on Wednesday.
 The NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said he thought that alliance members would contribute 5,000 soldiers -- and possibly more -- to make a substantial increase in the 42,000 NATO troops ranged against the Taliban. ''This is not just America's war,'' he said at the alliance's headquarters in Brussels. 
 But the president's entreaties drew an ambivalent response in some European nations where the war is broadly unpopular among voters.
 France and Germany ruled out an immediate commitment, saying they were awaiting an Afghanistan conference in London in late January. Other nations offered limited numbers of soldiers. 
 Alvaro de Vasconcelos, director of the European Union Institute for Security Studies in Paris, said the war was ''badly perceived in Europe, contaminated by the Iraq war, the killing of civilians, the collateral damage, all of which has contributed to a widespread opposition to the Afghan war among Europeans.''
 ''If the civilian side is as important as the military one -- training the Afghan police, judiciary and doing development, which Europeans know very well how to do and consider their main expertise -- it will make it easier for European leaders to get support,'' he said.
 Mr. Rasmussen did not say where he expected additional coalition forces to come from. Britain, the second largest contributor after the United States, has promised to add 500 to its 9,000-strong Afghan deployment.
 Poland's defense minister, Bogdan Klich, said that country would increase its contingent by 600 from its current 2,000, to serve in combat, reconnaissance and training missions, The Associated Press reported, but the decision awaits governmental approval. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) EUROPE (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); POLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



73 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: Minnesota: Projected Deficit Grows

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A new economic forecast shows Minnesota facing a $1.2 billion deficit through mid-2011 and a $5.4 billion deficit in the next two-year budget cycle. The deficit sets the stage for another budget showdown between the Republican governor, Tim Pawlenty, and the Democratic-controlled Legislature. They have clashed over spending cuts and efforts to raise taxes, which Mr. Pawlenty has resisted. Lawmakers' options are limited, with a fifth of the two-year budget already spent. The $1.2 billion deficit represents 5 percent of what is left. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (84%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



74 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Repaid Bailout Money May Go to Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Under pressure from Democrats in Congress, the Obama administration has begun talks with lawmakers about tapping unspent money from the government's financial bailout program to help offset additional spending to create jobs and aid the long-term unemployed.
 The discussions reflect the Democrats' effort to balance concerns for the high federal budget deficit and a costly, crowded domestic agenda, including an effort for further economic stimulus measures that is likely to exceed $100 billion. On Thursday, House leaders may decide the outlines of a jobs bill to pass this month, even as President Obama holds a White House jobs summit seeking long-range ideas. 
 Now that the financial industry has stabilized, and some bailed-out companies have repaid the government with interest, the $700 billion bailout fund created in October 2008 is left with a balance exceeding $200 billion, according to the Treasury.
 Because of accounting rules, at most half of that amount is available for reprogramming, officials in Congress and the administration say. Many Democrats are eager to apply any balance toward a jobs bill, to avoid adding to the deficit and to put the widely reviled bank bailout program -- known as TARP, for Troubled Asset Relief Program -- to use for ordinary Americans.
 Even at about $100 billion, the remaining TARP money would not cover much more than the estimated $85 billion cost of extending for another year the emergency federal compensation benefits for the longtime unemployed, as Democrats plan to do. Extending a provision subsidizing unemployed workers' purchase of Cobra health benefits would cost another $15 billion. But Democrats are also considering additional infrastructure spending and business tax credits to spur hiring. 
 Republicans object that Democrats want to turn the bailout program into a ''slush fund,'' and favor repealing it. 
 The administration has favored applying any balance to reduce the deficit, but this week officials indicated a willingness to reprogram some money, provided enough remained in reserve for potential banking problems and foreclosure mitigation.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, testifying on Wednesday before the Senate Agriculture Committee, warned against shuttering the program just yet, given the continued weakness in the banking, housing and real estate markets. But Mr. Geithner said much of the $700 billion would not be needed, an indication of how far the financial industry has improved since Mr. Obama took office and prepared to ask for up to $500 billion more. On Wednesday, Bank of America announced that it would repay all of its $45 billion in bailout money before the end of the year. 
 ''I think we are at the point now we're going to be able to return very, very substantial amounts of money to address the critical economic needs, long-term fiscal needs, of this country,'' Mr. Geithner said.
 Separately, deficit politics are complicating efforts to extend the current estate tax. The tax on large estates will otherwise be repealed on Jan. 1, but for just a year before reverting to a higher level in place before former President George W. Bush pushed through a 10-year tax cut in 2001. 
 Despite splits among Democrats, the House on Thursday is expected to pass a measure extending the tax permanently at the current level, a maximum rate of 45 percent on estates above $3.5 million for an individual and $7 million for a couple. The problem is that under budget accounting, extending the tax at that level would add $234 billion to the deficit over the next decade, even though it would raise revenues in 2010 that would otherwise be lost if the tax were repealed for a year. That is because current 10-year projections anticipate that after 2010 the tax would return to the higher, pre-Bush levels and bring in more revenues than under the extension.
 Until 2001, the estate tax was a maximum 55 percent and applied to estates above $1 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); POLITICS (75%); ESTATE TAX (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



75 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Obama's War Speech Wins Over Some Skeptics

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta, Emma Graves Fitzsimmons from Chicago, Dan Frosch from Denver, Malia Wollan from San Francisco and Katie Zezima from Boston.

 BODY:
A month ago, Donnie Jones, a 40-year-old Republican who lives outside Dallas, told pollsters that he was not sure President Obama had a plan for the war in Afghanistan. But after hearing the president speak Tuesday night, Mr. Jones feels reassured that Mr. Obama not only has a plan, but also one he can generally support. 
 Margaret Gilbert, 62, a Democrat from Portsmouth, Va., told the same pollsters that she did not want the United States to send more troops to Afghanistan. But after listening to Mr. Obama, Ms. Gilbert now believes that he has no choice.
 And Dave Cegledi, a 66-year-old independent from Olmsted Falls, Ohio, says he does not like Mr. Obama any more today than he did in November. But Mr. Cegledi thinks the president gave a good speech -- good enough, indeed, that he might vote for him for re-election if the strategy for Afghanistan works. 
 Mr. Obama intended his speech on Tuesday at West Point to rally Americans behind his plan to send 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan and to set an 18-month timetable for starting a withdrawal. And interviews on Wednesday suggested that, while opinions on the war remained wildly diverse, Mr. Obama managed to persuade a significant number of people on both sides of the political aisle, though it was impossible to know how many.
 Many Democrats who opposed the war said they now understood the need for escalation, in some cases to the point of supporting it. And Republicans who had thought Mr. Obama unwilling or unable to send more troops praised his decision, though many also criticized him for articulating a timetable for bringing troops home.
 ''I like the fact that he's sending more troops,'' said George Bronner, 45, a Republican from Knoxville, Tenn. ''This speech does change my opinion about Obama, and it changes it for the better. I didn't think he was going to step up to the plate and get more people over there.''
 The people interviewed on Tuesday night and Wednesday were randomly selected from a list of respondents to a poll conducted last month by CBS News, which is a frequent partner with The New York Times on national polls. In that poll, 53 percent approved of Mr. Obama's overall job performance, compared with 36 percent who did not, but only 38 percent approved of his handling of the war in Afghanistan. Opinions on troop levels were almost evenly divided, with 39 percent supporting a decrease, 32 percent calling for an increase and 20 percent saying to keep it the same.
 The telephone poll was conducted Nov. 13-16 with 1,167 adults nationwide and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
 Clearly, Mr. Obama's plan poses a risk of alienating supporters who had wanted him to swiftly scale back the American military presence in Afghanistan. Betty Holstine, a Democrat from Belle, W.Va., said that she had turned against the war after deciding that the death toll was too great and that she was now on the verge of turning against Mr. Obama as well.
 ''I was so eager to trust somebody to make things better,'' Ms. Holstine, 70, said, ''and perhaps I put too much faith and trust in the man. I just felt really disappointed and betrayed that it simply isn't happening.'' 
 Similarly, Dorothy Lingenfelser, a Republican from Lawrence, Kan., who a month ago said she approved of Mr. Obama's performance, said she was furious with him for sending more troops. 
 ''I think we ought to take care of people in the United States before we go take care of them in Afghanistan,'' Ms. Lingenfelser, a 77-year-old retired factory worker, said. ''I liked Obama before, but now I'm through with him.''
 More common were Democrats who said they continued to support Mr. Obama even as they held their nose about his plan.
 ''Sending more troops is a very bad idea,'' said Robert Labar, 60, a Democrat from Modesto, Calif. ''But I know that the right guy is in the White House, and we just have to go along with what he wants to do.'' 
 And there were several Democrats who said the president had convinced them of the need to dispatch more troops.
 ''I believe him; I trust him,'' said Dianna Sampson, 60, a Democrat from Dayton, Ky., who a month ago said she wanted to reduce troop levels. ''He met in a room with a lot of people, and this is what they came up with. It wasn't just this idea out of the blue.'' 
 Though most of the Republicans interviewed said they were pleased that Mr. Obama was sending more troops, many expressed skepticism about his motives.
 ''I think it's good Obama is putting extra troops into Afghanistan, but I know he's not doing it because he wants to,'' said Suzanne Miller, 60, a Republican from La Grande, Ore. ''He is trying to earn points with Republicans and conservatives who don't agree with his health care program.'' 
 And there was little evidence that most of the people who last month expressed disapproval of Mr. Obama were now prepared to embrace him warmly, as most said they continued to dislike his policies on health care and the economy. 
 ''I'm trying to give the guy the benefit of the doubt, but he's not doing anything that would push me toward liking his policies,'' said Scott Taylor, 40, an insurance agent from Franklin, Ind., who supports sending more troops to Afghanistan. 
 Republicans, independents and even a few Democrats also expressed concern about Mr. Obama's announcement that he would start bringing troops home in mid-2011. Some said he had given away too much information to the enemy; others said 18 months would not be enough time to stabilize the country. 
 ''I don't think that after 18 months the Afghan army will be large enough or trained enough to continue the work on its own,'' said Louis Bruso Jr., 58, a computer programmer and independent voter from Jamaica, Vt. ''My hope is that we leave enough troops there to help the Afghan army.'' 
 Mr. Obama seemed to do well among independents, several of whom said they felt more comfortable with him after the speech.
 ''He did a better-than-fair job,'' said Fran Turner, 75, an independent voter from San Antonio, who told the pollsters last month that she opposed Mr. Obama's performance as president. ''Not a perfect job, but a good job.''
 In particular, Ms. Turner said she was pleased Mr. Obama had taken his time in making a difficult decision, something many Republicans found fault with. 
 ''I go back to the old saying, 'Measure twice, cut once,' '' she said. ''Once you've jumped in, you're in. Bush jumped in, and he didn't know how to get out. Obama is thinking twice and cutting once. I really like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''He did a better-than-fair job. Not a perfect job, but a good job.'' Fran Turner Independent voter from San Antonio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA KRANTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''My hope is that we leave enough troops there to help the Afghan army.'' Louis Bruso Jr. Independent voter from Jamaica, Vt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) CHARTS: CHANGING OPINIONS ON AFGHANISTAN: Americans' views on the war in Afghanistan before President Obama's speech Tuesday night: (Source: National polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (53%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



76 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 ISRAEL ARRESTS SETTLERS FIGHTING CONSTRUCTION PAUSE
 The Israeli police made the first arrests in an effort to enforce a temporary construction freeze in Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The mayor of a settler council and at least two Jewish protesters were briefly detained. PAGE A10 
 MARCOS TO RUN IN PHILIPPINES 
 Imelda Marcos, 80, the widow of the dictator Ferdinand E. Marcos, filed last-minute papers declaring her candidacy for a seat in the Philippine Congress next year. PAGE A6 
 IRANIAN GIVEN 9-YEAR TERM
 Iran imposed the latest in a series of harsh penalties on prominent figures involved in election protests, sentencing Saeed Leylaz, an economist and journalist, to nine years in prison. PAGE A14 
 National
 JUDGE DENIES R.N.C. BID TO END 'BALLOT SECURITY' BAN
 A federal judge in New Jersey denied a request by the Republican National Committee to end restrictions on election tactics linked to the suppression of voting by racial minorities. PAGE A26 
 13 STEM CELL LINES OPENED
 The National Institutes of Health approved 13 new human embryonic stem cell lines for use by federally financed researchers, with 96 more under review. PAGE A27 
 Immigrant Detentions Faulted A25 
 Dissecting a Famous Brain A27
 New York
 TRIAL'S COLOR COMMENTATOR IS ITS DEFENDANT, TOO
 For the last several weeks, Joseph L. Bruno, the irrepressible 80-year-old former Senate majority leader, has offered a running commentary on his own federal public corruption trial from the courthouse steps, playing both defendant and pundit. PAGE A33 
 Business
 SENATOR MOVES TO HOLD UP BERNANKE CONFIRMATION
 Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont said he would try to block the Senate from confirming Ben S. Bernanke to a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve. PAGE B1
 THE GREAT GREEN HOPE
 Green jobs will be one of the focuses of President Obama's ''jobs summit.'' But growth in both clean energy industries and green jobs has been considerably slower and bumpier than anticipated, industry experts say. PAGE B1 
 BLOCKING HOLIDAY JINGLES
 Bose hopes the new model of its noise-canceling headphones, the QuietComfort 15, is so much better than cheaper rivals that people will start paying a premium again. State of the Art by David Pogue. PAGE B1 
 FED REPORTS MODEST GAINS
 The economy continues to show weak and sluggish signs of renewal, according to the Federal Reserve's regular round-up of economic conditions in the United States. PAGE B5 The Search for a New G.M. Chief B3
 Sports
 N.H.L. REFEREE SAYS WORK WITH UNION LED TO FIRING
 In an unusual case being heard in Toronto, a referee, Dean Warren, is challenging his dismissal by the National Hockey League on the grounds that it was illegally motivated by his work with the officials union. PAGE B15
 BILLS' CHOICE UPSETS BUFFALO
 The Bills' decision to play eight home games in Toronto over five years -- including Thursday's matchup with the Jets -- hurts an array of local businesses. PAGE B15 
 Arts
 SUNDANCE, THINKING INDIE, TRIES TO HONE ARTSY EDGE
 The programmers of the Sundance Film Festival, which has a new director, announced a schedule of films that in their view reflects no particular current in independent cinema except one: the artier the better. PAGE C1
 A PEEK INSIDE GOOGLE
 The best way to watch ''Inside the Mind of Google,'' CNBC's report on the Internet giant, is to not watch the first quarter of it. A review by Neil Genzlinger. PAGE C1
 Home
 PLUGGING LEAKS AND ZIPPING UP
 There are a number of low-cost ways to ensure your home stays warm this winter. The first step is to prevent the escape of warm air. The Fix by Arianne Cohen. PAGE D6 
 Thursday Styles
 FROM FASHION TO FILM, BUT STILL A CULTURAL ARBITER
 Tom Ford, the former creative director of Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent, makes his directorial debut with ''A Single Man,'' which has won praise from critics. PAGE E1 
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A43 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CORRUPTION (78%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); SENTENCING (75%); ICE HOCKEY (75%); JUDGES (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); DISMISSALS (67%); SPORTS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



77 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Senator Says He'll Block Bernanke Floor Vote

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont said on Wednesday that he would try to block the Senate from confirming Ben S. Bernanke to a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 The move is unlikely to derail Mr. Bernanke's reappointment, but it could slow the confirmation process and give the Fed's critics additional opportunity to press their case. As a practical matter, it means Senate Democratic leaders will have to line up 60 votes in favor of Mr. Bernanke rather than a simple majority at a time when the Federal Reserve is under increasing populist attacks from lawmakers on both the right and the left.
 Mr. Bernanke will testify on Thursday at his confirmation hearing before the Senate banking committee. He is expected to face criticism for not doing more to prevent the financial crisis, and calls by some lawmakers for a sharply reduced regulatory role in the future. 
 Mr. Sanders, an independent, is not a member of the Senate banking committee, but he has frequently accused the Federal Reserve of bailing out Wall Street firms and the banking industry at the expense of ordinary citizens. 
 ''In this country, there is profound disgust at what happened on Wall Street,'' Mr. Sanders said in an interview. ''People want a new direction and people are asking, where was the Fed? How did the Fed allow this to happen, when one of their mandates is to oversee the safety and soundness of the banking system?''
 Mr. Sanders said he would place a hold on Mr. Bernanke's nomination when it reached the Senate floor. Under Senate rules, lawmakers would need 60 votes to override Mr. Sanders and proceed with a vote.
 Though the Senate has been paralyzed by similar blocking tactics on countless other issues, Mr. Bernanke probably has enough support in both parties to clear the 60-vote hurdle.
 The Fed chairman was appointed by President George W. Bush and took over the central bank in February 2006. Despite his Republican ties, Mr. Bernanke forged a close working relationship with President Obama and his top economic advisers during the financial crisis. 
 Mr. Bernanke's four-year term as Fed chairman ends on Jan. 31, 2010. If he were not reconfirmed by then, he could continue to serve in an acting role until he was confirmed or someone else was confirmed to succeed him. His supporters include much of the Senate's Democratic leadership, though some senior Democrats have been grudging.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, has said Mr. Bernanke was ''probably'' the best person to lead the Fed because he responded valiantly to the financial crisis when it began two years ago.
 But Mr. Dodd has also proposed stripping the Federal Reserve of virtually all its powers as a banking regulator, and consolidating all the federal government's bank regulatory efforts in a new agency. In an Op-Ed article last Sunday in The Washington Post, Mr. Bernanke sharply criticized Mr. Dodd's proposal.
 Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the top Republican on the Senate banking committee, has also been sharply critical of the Federal Reserve but has not yet said how he will vote on Mr. Bernanke's nomination.
 Mr. Sanders, one of the Senate's most left-leaning lawmakers, had already said he would vote against Mr. Bernanke's appointment. He has also sponsored a bill that would allow Congress to ''audit'' all of the Federal Reserve's activities, including its core mission of steering the economy by setting interest rates.
 Mr. Sanders's bill is identical to one championed by Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, which Mr. Bernanke and other top Fed officials have adamantly opposed on the grounds that it would undermine the central bank's independence.
 But in a surprising setback to the Fed, the House Financial Services Committee voted last month to approve Mr. Paul's bill as an amendment to a broader bill on financial regulation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); TESTIMONY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANKING LAW (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BERNIE SANDERS (90%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



78 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Some Allies Wary of New Troop Pledges

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Reporting was contributed by Carlotta Gall and Sangar Rahimi from Kabul, Afghanistan; Sabrina Tavernise and Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan; Steven Erlanger and Nadim Audi from Paris; and Victor Homola from Berlin.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As political and military leaders across the globe pondered President Obama's announcement of his Afghan strategy, European allies offered a mixed response on Wednesday, with some of the biggest contributors to the NATO coalition withholding promises of immediate troop reinforcements.
 The NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said he believed other members of the alliance would contribute 5,000 soldiers -- and possibly more -- to make a ''substantial'' increase to the 42,000 NATO troops already ranged against the Taliban.
 ''This is not just America's war,'' he said at the alliance's headquarters in Brussels.
 But the president's entreaties drew an ambivalent response in some European nations where the war is broadly unpopular among voters who question why it is being fought and whether it can be won. 
 France and Germany ruled out an immediate commitment, saying they were awaiting an Afghanistan conference in London in late January. Other nations offered only limited numbers of soldiers. 
 Alvaro de Vasconcelos, director of the European Union Institute for Security Studies in Paris, said the war was ''badly perceived in Europe, contaminated by the Iraq war, the killing of civilians, the collateral damage, all of which has contributed to a widespread opposition to the Afghan war among Europeans.''
 ''If the civilian side is as important as the military one -- training the Afghan police, judiciary and doing development, which Europeans know very well how to do and consider their main expertise -- it will make it easier for European leaders to get support.'''
 ''More troops for a very unpopular war, without knowing where we're going, doesn't work -- you can't sell it to Europeans,'' Mr. de Vasconcelos said. ''But you can sell the transition from war to crisis management.''
 Mr. Obama's plan to send around 30,000 more American soldiers was closely watched in Pakistan, gripped by a Taliban insurgency intertwined with Afghanistan's.
 There, distrust of American intentions runs deep, partly because the United States is seen as having abandoned the region after the Soviet Union's withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989, and there is widespread fear in the security establishment of a repetition of those events. And Pakistanis remain concerned about the possible implications of a huge troop surge just across their long and porous border with Afghanistan.
 ''Pakistan looks forward to engaging closely with the United States in understanding the full import of the new strategy and to ensure that there would be no adverse fallout on Pakistan,'' the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
 Shireen Mazari, editor of an English-language Pakistani daily newspaper, The Nation, said the American surge was unlikely to bring success and would force Taliban insurgents into Pakistan. ''Their policy is flawed, and it has to be changed. Playing the numbers game has to be stopped,'' she said.
 Mehmood Shah, a former military official and a security analyst based in Peshawar, Pakistan, said: ''The biggest apprehension is that our international borders will be crossed by the U.S. military. It can create a big dilemma for us.''
 In Europe, some analysts also said Mr. Obama's speech had fallen short of expectations.
 ''This is one of Obama's most important foreign policy decisions,'' said Ayesha Khan, an analyst with Chatham House, a policy institute in London. ''It comes after months of deliberation and a painstaking consultative process, but the outcome to this much-anticipated and long-awaited announcement has been an anticlimax for those who expected a paradigm shift.''
 Mr. Rasmussen, the NATO secretary general, did not say where he expected additional coalition forces to come from. Britain, the second-largest contributor after the United States, has promised to add 500 to its 9,000-strong Afghan deployment, and Prime Minister Gordon Brown said Wednesday that Britain would ''continue to play its full part in persuading other countries to offer troops to the Afghanistan campaign.'' 
 Poland's defense minister said the country would increase its contingent by 600 from its current level of 2,000, to serve in combat, reconnaissance and training missions, The Associated Press reported, but the decision awaits governmental approval. A Spanish newspaper said Spain might increase its deployment by 200 soldiers to 1,200. Britain pledged to press other allies to boost their contingents, and Italy hinted at an unspecified increase beyond its current 2,800 soldiers in the patchwork of foreign troops in Afghanistan, known as the International Security Assistance Force.
 With more than 2,800 soldiers on the ground -- and a relatively high casualty rate among them -- Canada welcomed Mr. Obama's decision, with Foreign Minister Lawrence Cannon saying the ''additional U.S. resources will help to provide a more secure environment for the Afghan people.''
 The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, called Mr. Obama's speech on Tuesday night ''courageous, determined and lucid, giving new impetus to the international commitment'' but he did not commit to adding to France's nearly 3,750 troops now in the war zone.
 ''France expects clear commitments from Afghan authorities, in answer to the strong commitments of the international community, on policy, economic and social development and on fighting drug trafficking,'' he said.
 The foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, said in a radio interview that France had increased its force levels in September and, in its area of operations, ''our zone doesn't need a troop increase. Our area is well taken care of.'' 
 But he did not rule out further adjustment, referring to the international conference on Afghanistan in London in late January. ''We will see how to adjust things then.''
 Germany, too, is awaiting the gathering in London to decide whether to increase the size of its contingent. ''We hear the wishes of the United States, but we will not decide in the coming days. We will decide only after the Afghanistan conference,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel said.
 Several German newspapers have reported that Washington is pressing for up to 2,500 more German soldiers. As the third-largest contributor in the alliance with 4,300 troops on the ground, Germany is currently debating a one-year renewal of a parliamentary mandate for the deployment which sets a maximum level of 4,500 troops. 
 An increase would need fresh parliamentary approval.
 In a statement issued in Kabul on Wednesday Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the top commander of American and NATO forces in Afghanistan, said the president's review of Afghan strategy had ''provided me with a clear military mission and the resources to accomplish our task.''
 General McChrystal had sought up to 40,000 American reinforcements in addition to the 68,000 already there.
 ''We face many challenges in Afghanistan, but our efforts are sustained by one unassailable reality: neither the Afghan people nor the international community want Afghanistan to remain a sanctuary for terror and violence,'' General McChrystal said. ''The coalition is encouraged by President Obama's commitment and we remain resolute to empowering the Afghan people to reject the insurgency and build their own future.''
 Apart from the political and military consequences of the American strategy, others in the region are looking for an economic component in Washington's involvement.
 In a letter this month to Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, Mr. Obama extended an offer of expanded, long-term cooperation, including helping Pakistan address ''immediate energy, water, and related economic crisis.''
 ''The speech creates a window of opportunity,'' said Feisal Naqvi, a lawyer in Lahore, Pakistan. ''But the partnership has to have some visible aid component.'' The United States government, he said, ''has to woo the people of Pakistan.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



79 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Black Caucus Seeks to Ease Radio's Woes

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Eric Lichtblau contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The radio business has nothing to do with the plan to overhaul the nation's system for regulating banks and other financial institutions.
 Except, it turns out, in Congress.
 One of most intriguing mysteries here in recent weeks is why members of the Congressional Black Caucus have chosen to buck their party and president in trying to stall financial regulation reform.
 The answer lies at least in part with an aggressive lobbying campaign by a troubled New York City-based radio broadcasting company, Inner City Broadcasting, whose co-founder is a prominent New York politician and businessman, Percy Sutton. 
 In a rare break with President Obama, the caucus, made up of black members of Congress, is holding back support for the legislation because it wants the administration to help minority-owned businesses, including Inner City, whose financial plight has been specifically identified in meetings with top administration officials.
 Inner City Broadcasting, which owns 17 commercial stations nationwide and was co-founded in 1971 by Mr. Sutton, faces a possible financial collapse because of pressure by Goldman Sachs and GE Capital to repay nearly $230 million in debt, Pierre Sutton, his son, said in an interview Wednesday.
 Inner City has been battered by declines in advertising, as have many stations around the country, which have experienced drops of 10 percent or more in the last year because of the recession and the move of advertisers to the Internet.
 While others are suffering, too, Black Caucus members and lobbyists for Inner City in a series of meetings have pressed the administration for special help for black-owned broadcasters like Inner City, participants in the meetings said. 
 Caucus members made their case about minority-owned businesses directly to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, last month.
 In pushing its cause, Inner City hired a prominent Washington lobbying firm, the Podesta Group, which assigned to the case a former senior aide to Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and a former executive director of the caucus. 
 Mr. Sutton, even today at age 89, remains a prominent African- American power broker in New York City. The father and son have been major campaign contributors to one of the leaders of the caucus, Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, who is also a protege of the senior Mr. Sutton. 
 Members of the caucus asked the administration to squeeze lenders like GE Capital and Goldman Sachs to renegotiate their loans with Inner City and other black-owned radio stations, arguing that these financial institutions themselves had already received federal assistance. Some caucus members even pushed to include black-owned radio stations in the bailout.
 ''There is a lot of concern about Inner City Broadcasting,'' said Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, who set up one recent meeting with Mr. Geithner and Mr. Emanuel at the request of the Black Caucus. 
 Mr. Frank said the radio stations were only one issue raised by the caucus, and that others included financial difficulties faced by black-owned auto dealers, newspapers, banks and government contractors.
 Inner City and other radio stations have been a repeated topic, dating back to last spring, when Mr. Rangel and eight other Black Caucus members wrote to Mr. Geithner about the concern. 
 ''It is absolutely essential that we do not allow this once-in-a-generation financial crisis to erase the modest inroads minorities have made into the broadcast industry,'' the letter said.
 Mr. Frank also said Wednesday that at the request of the Black Caucus members, he had called ''private and public companies'' on behalf of the radio station owners, to urge them to work with Inner City and other media companies. 
 He would not name the companies, but he did not dispute it when asked if it included Goldman Sachs.
 The matter came to a head Wednesday, when 10 members of the Congressional Black Caucus skipped a House Financial Services Committee meeting, intentionally missing a critical vote on the regulatory reform package, to reinforce demands they have placed on the White House to take steps to address the way the financial crisis has hurt black businesses, including Inner City. 
 That vote allowed the legislation to move to the full House floor, where it is expected to be taken up next week. 
 If caucus members vote against it, the legislation could fail, dealing a significant blow to the administration.
 ''While we appreciate the need for the expansion of regulatory authority, we can no longer afford for our public policy to be defined by the world view of Wall Street,'' Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, said Wednesday, in explaining the decision by Black Caucus members to withhold their votes. 
 The administration declined to discuss requests related to Inner City and other radio stations.
 ''We share the concerns raised by C.B.C. members about struggling minority communities, and that's why we've engaged in a positive way to make progress on these issues,'' Jennifer R. Psaki, a White House spokeswoman, said in a written comment. 
 But privately, participants in some of the meetings said, the Obama administration has raised objections, saying it did not believe it was appropriate to pressure financial institutions to make concessions for specific loans or businesses, according to one person who attended a meeting with Treasury and White House officials on the topic but asked to remain anonymous.
 Paul A. Brathwaite, a Podesta Group lobbyist who is the former executive director at the Congressional Black Caucus, said the financial crisis has had a particular impact on the radio industry, because of the combined effect of declines in advertising, recent changes in the way radio audience ratings are calculated and the squeeze in the credit markets that has made getting new loans or refinancing difficult. 
 Michael DuVally, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, confirmed Wednesday that the company has been involved in talks with Inner City Broadcasting about its debt. He would not say if it had received appeals from officials in Washington related to the matter.
 But Pierre Sutton said Wednesday that this intervention by officials in Washington has already helped, as negotiations are under way with Goldman and GE Capital to refinance the loans.
 ''The awareness was certainly made more acute,'' he said. ''They got the message.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Warfield, the president of Inner City Broadcasting, testified Wednesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); CAUCUSES (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (70%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (70%); GEC (LSE) (70%); GE (SWX) (70%); GE (NYSE) (70%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (77%); CHARLES B RANGEL (77%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); BARNEY FRANK (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



80 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: The Afghan Plan: A Range of Voices

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Speeds Troops and Vows to Start Pullout in 2011'' (front page, Dec. 2):
 In 1968, about 30,000 Americans had already died in the Vietnam War. Two of that generation's brightest leaders, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy, joined together to speak out against our continued involvement in that war. But they did not live out the year, and the void left by their passing can be seen on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial that bears more than 58,000 American names. 
 Barack Obama was elected as our president and our commander in chief because he reminded many of us of those two leaders. Now, a year after his historic and uplifting election, he has decided to pour more troops into a war in Afghanistan that has dragged on for more than eight long years. 
 Unfortunately, in making that decision, President Obama has failed to show the strength that King and Kennedy showed when we were bogged down in Vietnam. He has failed to seize the opportunity to tell us, unequivocally, that we must leave Afghanistan now, and the failed policies that bogged us down there in the first place. 
 A year ago, Mr. Obama promised to bring ''change'' to our country. This is definitely not it.
 Dan Shea Seattle, Dec. 2, 2009
 The writer's brother, Lt. Col. Kevin Shea, was killed in Falluja, Iraq, on Sept. 14, 2004. 
 To the Editor:
 Many of my fellow progressives disagree with President Obama's decision to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan. In my view, he deserves the benefit of the doubt on this decision.
 The reckless assault on Iraq was based on hubris, ignorance and an absurdly Pollyannish view of the likely consequences (not to mention the lack of a clear connection with any national interest of the United States). Both this country and the Iraqi population have suffered deeply as a result.
 In contrast, President Obama has been forced to choose among a series of bad options in Afghanistan. He has done so with admirable deliberation and thought. He may or may not have made the right decision. Time will tell. But the process by which he reached his determination cannot be faulted, and I believe that it is premature to say, without knowing the eventual outcome, that it is wrong.
 Richard Cohen Davis, Calif., Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I have been an outspoken critic of the Iraq war, which I deemed misguided and unjust. Yet I was an eyewitness to the destruction of the twin towers on 9/11, and have no illusions about the threat Al Qaeda and its extremist allies continue to pose to America.
 For that reason, I fully support President Obama's Afghanistan strategy. While many questions remain about the stability of governments in the area, the resolve of our allies and the feasibility of reaching our goals by mid-2011, make no mistake: we have no choice but to do all we can to ensure that Al Qaeda can never again mount the kind of attack it did on that infamous day. 
 Thomas J. Minet Montclair, N.J., Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Those of us who were devoted to getting Barack Obama elected president in November 2008 are saddened by the situation he finds himself in. He is between a rock and a hard place. 
 But if nothing else, the history of Afghanistan clearly shows us that that country is a no-win situation. Even if the president's plan, revealed on Tuesday night, ''works'' and United States troops return home in 2011 or so, what will stop the Taliban from waiting out the situation and raising their terror after the withdrawal?
 Jennifer Dorn New York, Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 On Tuesday night President Obama did what a commander in chief ought to do. He made a decision and defended it. What he did not do was call on the American people to sacrifice in any meaningful way.
 There was no mention of bond sales to finance the war. No rationing to conserve our resources. No draft to spread the burden of war more fairly. Any of these would have given each citizen an opportunity to express support or opposition. All of these would place the decision where it should ultimately belong -- on this country's citizens.
 Robert Beck Santa Cruz, Calif., Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Afghanistan Speech'' (editorial, Dec. 2):
 President Obama's newly unveiled Afghanistan escalation is certainly ''high risk.'' But it is also likely to be low reward.
 It is hard to imagine that we can mold the corrupt, helpless Karzai regime into a stable Afghan state over the next 18 months with an additional 30,000 troops. Most experts estimate that a ''successful'' counterinsurgency would take many more soldiers and many more years.
 The unstated aim of the ''surge'' seems to be to pacify the country long enough to foster the illusion of stability so that Mr. Obama can withdraw United States forces without appearing to have ''lost'' Afghanistan. But the real choice is between an open-ended guerrilla war or a fast, responsible exit. 
 This split-the-difference plan epitomizes the worst-of-both-worlds fallout of ''compromising'' between polar positions.
 To paraphrase a young John Kerry, Mr. Obama is asking one of those 30,000 soldiers to be the last to die for a mistake.
 Mike Leonard Chicago, Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Here we go again! The United States is committed to another unwinnable war in a country that will remain a democracy only while it is protected by America. Afghanistan is fraught with so much corruption that even its ''democratic'' elections are suspect.
 The suggestion that we have a mission and we will start an exit in 2011 would be laughable were it not so dangerous to our troops and our economy. Already, administration officials are saying a pullout will be dependent upon what is going on in two years.
 This is, at best, another Iraq, and at worst, another Vietnam.
 Salvatore J. Bommarito New York, Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 By coupling a troop surge with an exit timetable in Afghanistan, President Obama has indulged in an oxymoron of military strategy. It was President Dwight D. Eisenhower who enunciated the axiom that all wars are unpredictable. Mr. Obama has scant ability to foresee what tactics may be dictated two years from now.
 Roger Brandwein Margaret Brandwein New York, Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I heard President Obama's speech and he spoke brilliantly as usual, but I was appalled by its content, by his profound lack of understanding of the enemy. To announce to the world that America has a plan to begin pulling out forces in 18 months is a monumental blunder. 
 The Taliban and Al Qaeda are probably laughing their terrorist heads off. During this period they'll back off, go into hiding in the Afghan and Pakistani mountains, and train for conquest when we begin drawing down substantial numbers of troops.
 Doesn't President Obama understand that this enemy has infinite patience in achieving world conquest and will use wait-and-ambush tactics?
 Ray Kestenbaum Rego Park, Queens, Dec. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As a baby boomer, I lived in fear of a nuclear attack from the Soviet Union. The Middle East was never mentioned. Since 9/11 my childhood fear has returned, but it is ill defined, along with the enemy. 
 Right now I need to fear the Pakistani-Afghan border activities and the buildup of Al Qaeda, but only in Afghanistan. That's going to be fixed by ''winning'' a timetable war. 
 I like to win. Did we win yet in Iraq? Was Al Qaeda ever in Iraq? Is Al Qaeda also in the Philippines, Somalia, Algeria, Eritrea, Chechnya, Tajikistan, Somalia, Yemen and Kashmir? And let's not forgetthe Taliban. Do we help Al Qaeda by quashing the Taliban? 
 Somewhere in all the rhetoric is the truth, perhaps lending some sense of understanding and security. What are our motives? Who is the enemy? How many more countries will we leave in chaos after failed democratization? 
 One distant enemy, one fear, was so much easier.
 Brad Lewis Beverly Hills, Calif., Dec. 2, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); VETERANS (73%); WRITERS (73%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



81 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: The Long Hot Winter

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Now is the winter of our discontent. And, officially, it's still fall.
 I have developed a whole new appreciation for the hysteria over Tiger Woods. Many critics of the news media believe we are spending way too much time worrying about why a golfer had a car accident at the end of his driveway. But given the incredibly depressing nature of all the big news stories of the week, if you want to focus on Tiger's marital problems, I am in total sympathy.
 The president ordered 30,000 more troops into Afghanistan. The New York State Senate defeated a same-sex marriage bill. Even the murder and racketeering trial of John Gotti Jr. ended badly. 
 I have been a fan of this particular judicial proceeding ever since the day that Gotti got into a courtroom brawl with a prosecution witness that ended with Junior shouting: ''You're a punk! You're a dog! You're a dog! You always were a dog your whole life, you punk dog.'' 
 However, on Tuesday, it vanished from the news cycle when the judge declared the fourth mistrial in five years because of a hung jury.
 Meanwhile, in Washington, the U.S. Senate began its groundbreaking debate over a national health care plan. In honor of this historic event, the Republican Judd Gregg of New Hampshire -- who you will remember was so bipartisan a while back that President Obama wanted to make him the secretary of commerce -- passed out a list of tips on how to best stall any conceivable progress with meaningless points of order. 
 The way things are going, we should get to a vote at about the same time that the president is planning to get the troops out of Afghanistan.
 Much of the debate has revolved around mammograms. You will remember that recently a government task force suggested that women who don't have any special predisposition to breast cancer consider beginning mammograms at 50 rather than 40. 
 ''This was based mainly on cost,'' said John Ensign, a Republican who was actually completely wrong despite the extensive expertise he brings to the debate in his capacity as the only veterinarian in the Senate. 
 The practical effects of the task force recommendation, under the health care reform bill, might be to increase the number of insurance policies that require a co-payment for those early tests unless a woman's doctor intervened to say that they were needed. Given the fact that some experts never did think the early mammograms were a good idea, and that others now believe they actually do more harm than good, this did not seem like the worst possible thing in the world.
 Especially since, um, right now a lot of women have no health insurance and no mammograms at all.
 The Democrats, terrified by cries of ''rationing!'' are now trying to amend the bill to expand insurance coverage of health care screenings for women. Not to be outdone, the Republicans seem bent on making sure that every single 40-year-old woman in America gets a free mammogram even if she never sees a doctor for anything else for the rest of her life. 
 Another big debate topic has been cost. The price tag on the bill needs to be kept under control -- except, of course, when it involves mammograms. That's a concern for us all since spending on health care is spiraling out of control and threatening to wreck the economy.
 So you really did need to pay attention when the Republicans offered their first big motion of the debate, under the leadership of that famous fiscal hawk and former G.O.P. standard-bearer, John McCain. ... Who got up and demanded that the bill be stripped of $450 billion in proposed Medicare savings.
 ''Come back with another bill. Only this time, don't put the cost of it on the backs of senior citizens of this country,'' he said.
 It was a riveting moment. Perhaps never before had a member of the Senate dared to suggest that a piece of pending legislation should be changed so that senior citizens would be exempt from suffering. 
 Medicare eats up more than 3 percent of the gross domestic product, and it is the one entitlement that the government has no current prospects of ever getting under control. You would think that shaving some of its costs might interest a guy who practically based an entire presidential campaign on his opposition to a $3 million DNA test for endangered grizzly bears.
 But no, there was McCain, waving the bloody shirt and predicting that cutting the cost of Medicare would -- Yes! -- ''eventually lead to rationing of health care in this country.''
 Whatever happened to the John McCain who wanted to balance the budget and work with the Democrats to fight global warming? Gone the way of the wild grizzly, I guess.
 Let's try not to think about what January will bring. Maybe another sports hero will do us a favor and run into a fire hydrant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISTRIAL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); GOLF (73%); WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE (72%); BREAST CANCER (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); WITNESSES (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (53%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (88%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); JUDD GREGG (55%); JOHN ENSIGN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



82 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: BANK OF AMERICA READY TO REFUND FEDERAL BAILOUT

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Less than a year after grasping two multibillion-dollar bailouts from Washington, a resurgent Bank of America announced on Wednesday that it would repay all of its federal aid, underscoring the banking industry's swift recovery from the gravest financial crisis since the Depression. 
 Despite continuing problems with its loans to struggling homeowners and consumers, Bank of America plans to return the $45 billion in aid that it received at the height of the financial panic -- a step that, only months ago, would have been almost unimaginable. 
 But like many other big banks, Bank of America is once again making money, in large part through Wall Street businesses like trading stocks and bonds, rather than by making loans. Its recovery, while many ordinary Americans are still struggling, is an important milestone in the government's yearlong effort to stabilize the nation's financial industry. 
 The Obama administration has begun talks with lawmakers about using unspent money from the financial bailout program to help offset the costs of spending to create jobs. 
 For Bank of America and its beleaguered leader, Kenneth D. Lewis, the turnabout is particularly sweet. Mr. Lewis was driven first from his role as chairman and then from his post as chief executive after the bank's controversial takeover of Merrill Lynch last year. Now, with only weeks remaining in his tenure, he has managed to extricate Bank of America -- not long ago regarded as one of the nation's most troubled big banks -- from Washington's grip. 
 Wednesday's announcement followed months of heated negotiations between the bank's board members, executives and federal regulators. It is a particularly delicate time for Bank of America, which has struggled to find a replacement for Mr. Lewis. By paying back the money that it received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, Bank of America will free itself from exceptional federal oversight of its executives' pay -- a thorny issue in recruiting a new chief executive. 
 Indeed, Bank of America's board has been riven by dissent over just who should lead the bank into its post-bailout period. Several potential candidates have said they were not interested in the job, in part because of the bank's federal bailouts and the strings attached to them. 
 But by paying back its rescue funds, Bank of America will shed much of the stigma associated with financial companies that received not one but two federal bailouts. Its repayment will leave Citigroup and GMAC standing alone as the only giant banks that have received such extraordinary aid, although other banks big and small have yet to repay single bailouts. 
 Bank of America will repay part of its relief funds by selling $18.8 billion in stock that is expected to be converted into common stock, a move that will further dilute its existing shares even as it strengthens the bank's financial footing. 
 But most of the money will come from money that Bank of America has generated in recent months with its wagers in the financial markets. After its acquisition of Merrill -- a takeover that was once panned but now appears to be paying off -- Bank of America has taken greater risks to compete with Wall Street giants like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase.
 The bank said it would put $26.2 billion of its cash toward repaying its bailout and would also sell off $4 billion in assets.
 Mr. Lewis was criticized for paying too much for Merrill Lynch, whose gaping losses prompted Bank of America to seek a second lifeline from Washington. The events surrounding the takeover, and the government's role in it, remain highly controversial. Some shareholders contend that Bank of America failed to disclose adequately the risks associated with the deal, which remains under state and federal scrutiny. 
 A Treasury Department spokesman said the bank's repayment represented a major step in removing the government from the banking sector.
 ''As banks replace Treasury investments with private capital, confidence in the financial system increases, taxpayers are made whole, and government's unprecedented involvement in the private sector lessens,'' said Andrew Williams, a spokesman for the Treasury.
 The months-long struggle between the bank and regulators focused on the amount of capital that Bank of America would have to raise to repay the bailout funds. Regulators are pushing major banks to increase their common equity, and the decision about Bank of America's financial makeup raises questions about whether regulators will demand increases at other banks like Wells Fargo.
 Now Bank of America's board will focus on appointing Mr. Lewis's successor, a process that began in October when he surprised even close associates by saying he would retire early. The board plans to meet in Charlotte early next week and hopes to interview a few of the final candidates. 
 Once the bailout money is repaid, the bank will no longer have to consult with the Treasury's special master of compensation about what it awards its new chief executive, or any other employee. That may open doors for outside candidates for the job who were wary of accepting a job under the government's thumb.
 Bank of America executives have insisted for months that the bank's underlying businesses were far stronger than those of some other banks and that the Merrill merger would pay off quickly. Indeed, Merrill's businesses have improved this year as Wall Street's traditional business of trading and deal making picked up. At the same time, Bank of America's core consumer lending units suffered greater losses as the economy weakened.
 The bank's negotiations with the government were led by Greg Curl, who took over as its chief risk officer in June. Mr. Curl negotiated the bank's merger with Merrill last year, and he has been considered a potential successor to Mr. Lewis.

GRAPHIC: CHART: PAYING BACK THE TREASURY: Following the footsteps of financial firms including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, Bank of America said it would pay back its bailout funds by year's end. (Source: Treasury) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BONDS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); COMMON STOCK (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (78%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



83 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK SENATE TURNS BACK BILL ON GAY MARRIAGE

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The New York State Senate decisively rejected a bill on Wednesday that would have allowed gay couples to wed, providing a major victory for those who oppose same-sex marriage and underscoring the deep and passionate divisions surrounding the issue. 
 The 38-to-24 vote startled proponents of the bill and signaled that political momentum, at least right now, had shifted against same-sex marriage, even in heavily Democratic New York. It followed more than a year of lobbying by gay rights organizations, who steered close to $1 million into New York legislative races to boost support for the measure. 
 Senators who voted against the measure said the public was gripped by economic anxiety and remained uneasy about changing the state's definition of marriage.
 ''Certainly this is an emotional issue and an important issue for many New Yorkers,'' said Senator Tom Libous, the deputy Republican leader. ''I just don't think the majority care too much about it at this time because they're out of work, they want to see the state reduce spending, and they are having a hard time making ends meet. And I don't mean to sound callous, but that's true.''
 The defeat, which followed a stirring, tearful and at times very personal debate, all but ensures that the issue is dead in New York until at least 2011, when a new Legislature will be installed.
 Since 2003, seven states, including three that border New York, have legalized same-sex marriage. But in two of the seven -- California last year and Maine last month -- statewide referendums have restricted marriage to straight couples, prohibiting gay nuptials. Pollsters say that while support generally is building for same-sex marriage, especially as the electorate ages, voters resist when they fear the issue is being pushed too fast. 
 In Albany on Wednesday, proponents had believed going into the vote that they could attract as many as 35 supporters to the measure; at their most pessimistic, they said they would draw at least 26. They had the support of Gov. David A. Paterson, who had publicly championed the bill, along with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and the Senate Democratic leadership.
 The defeat revealed stark divides: All 30 of the Republican senators opposed the bill, as did most of the members from upstate New York and Long Island. Support was heaviest among members from New York City and Westchester County and among the Senate's 10 black members. Seven of the Senate's 10 women voted for it.
 ''I'm a woman and a Jew and so I know about discrimination,'' said Senator Liz Krueger of Manhattan.
 Senators who are considered politically vulnerable also voted almost uniformly against the bill, including four first-term Democrats. All but one of those whose districts border or lie within the 23rd Congressional District, where the marriage issue erupted in a recent special election, opposed it. In that race, a Republican who supported gay marriage withdrew after an uproar from conservatives in her district.
 ''I think that there were political forces that in some respects intimidated some of those who voted,'' said Mr. Paterson. ''I think if there'd actually been a conscience vote we'd be celebrating marriage equality right now.''
 While gay rights supporters such as Mr. Paterson had prominently pushed for passage, the opposition was less visible but ultimately more potent. That was reflected in the floor debate Wednesday: Opponents remained mostly silent; all but one of those who spoke on the floor supported the measure.
 The state's Roman Catholic bishops had consistently lobbied for its defeat, however, and after the vote released a statement applauding the move.
 ''Advocates for same-sex marriage have attempted to portray their cause as inevitable,'' Richard E. Barnes, the executive director of the New York State Catholic Conference, said in the statement. ''However, it has become clear that Americans continue to understand marriage the way it has always been understood, and New York is not different in that regard. This is a victory for the basic building block of our society.''
 Several supporters said they felt they had been betrayed by senators who promised to vote yes but then, reluctant to support an issue as politically freighted as same-sex marriage if they could avoid it, switched their votes on the floor when it became evident the bill would lose.
 ''This is the worst example of political cowardice I've ever seen,'' said Senator Kevin S. Parker, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''Clearly people said things prior to coming to the floor and behaved differently.''
 Republican advocates who supported the bill insisted that the agreement they struck with Democrats called for Democrats, who have 32 seats in the 62-member Senate, to deliver enough support so only a handful of Republicans were needed to take such a politically risky vote.
 ''Several Republicans wanted to vote for this,'' said Jeff Cook, a legislative adviser for the Log Cabin Republicans. ''But those Republicans aren't willing to take a tough political vote when the bill has no chance of passage. And that's the political reality.''
 It is rare for legislation to reach the floor in Albany when passage is not all but assured. And initially, gay rights advocates resisted bringing this bill to a vote, fearing the consequences of a defeat. But they shifted that strategy over time, becoming convinced that an up or down vote was necessary so they could finally know which senators supported the bill.
 That was in part because gay rights groups, which have become major financial players in state politics, wanted to know which senators they should back in the future and which ones to target for defeat. 
 Alan Van Capelle, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, New York's largest gay rights group, hinted that senators who voted against the bill on Wednesday could face repercussions. And Christine C. Quinn, the New York City Council speaker, echoed that sentiment, saying, ''Anybody who thinks that by casting a no vote they're putting this issue to bed, they're making a massive miscalculation.''
 Polls suggest that voters in New York favor same-sex marriage, though the electorate is clearly split. A poll released Wednesday by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie showed that 51 percent of registered voters supported same-sex marriage while 42 percent opposed it.
 On Wednesday, as news of the vote made its way to demonstrators standing outside the Senate chamber, some erupted in angry chants of ''Equal rights!'' and surrounded a senator who opposed the measure. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Thomas K. Duane gave Senator Ruth Hassell-Thompson a kiss after she said she would support same-sex marriage. (pg.A1)
Gov. David A. Paterson, who has championed gay marriage, came to the Senate chamber after the legislation was defeated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A40) GRAPHIC: HOW THE VOTES WERE CAST: Here is the vote tally on a bill in the New York State Senate to legalize same-sex marriage. The bill was defeated, 38 to 24.
DEMOCRATS FOR: Eric Adams, Brooklyn Neil D. Breslin, Albany Martin Malave Dilan, Brooklyn Thomas Duane, Manhattan Pedro Espada Jr., Bronx Brian X. Foley, Long Island Ruth Hassell-Thompson, Bronx-Westchester Craig M. Johnson, Long Island Jeffrey D. Klein, Bronx-Westchester Liz Krueger, Manhattan Velmanette Montgomery, Brooklyn Suzi Oppenheimer, Westchester Kevin S. Parker, Brooklyn Bill Perkins, Manhattan John L. Sampson, Brooklyn Diane J. Savino, Brooklyn-Staten Island Eric T. Schneiderman, Manhattan- Bronx Jose M. Serrano, Manhattan- Bronx Malcolm A. Smith, Brooklyn- Queens Daniel L. Squadron, Brooklyn- Manhattan Toby Ann Stavisky, Queens Andrea Stewart-Cousins, Westchester Antoine M. Thompson, Buffalo David J. Valesky, Syracuse
DEMOCRATS AGAINST: Joseph P. Addabbo Jr., Queens Darrel J. Aubertine, Watertown Ruben Diaz Sr., Bronx Shirley L. Huntley, Queens Carl Kruger, Brooklyn Hiram Monserrate, Queens George Onorato, Queens William T. Stachowski, Buffalo
 REPUBLICANS AGAINST: James S. Alesi, Rochester John J. Bonacic, Middletown John A. DeFrancisco, Syracuse Hugh T. Farley, Amsterdam John J. Flanagan, Long Island Charles J. Fuschillo Jr., Long Island Martin J. Golden, Brooklyn Joseph A. Griffo, Utica Kemp Hannon, Long Island Owen H. Johnson, Long Island Andrew J. Lanza, Staten Island William J. Larkin Jr., Orange and Ulster Counties Kenneth P. LaValle, Long Island Vincent L. Leibell, Brewster Tom Libous, Binghamton Elizabeth Little, Glens Falls Carl L. Marcellino, Long Island George D. Maziarz, Niagara, Orleans and Monroe Counties Roy J. McDonald, Troy Thomas P. Morahan, Rockland County Michael F. Nozzolio, Seneca Falls Frank Padavan, Bronx, Queens, Nassau County Michael H. Ranzenhofer, Erie and Genesee Counties Joseph E. Robach, Rochester Stephen M. Saland, Poughkeepsie James L. Seward, Oneonta Dean G. Skelos, Long Island Dale Volker, Erie, Wyoming, Livingston and Ontario Counties George H. Winner Jr., Elmira Catherine Young, Olean (pg.A40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); COHABITATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



84 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Sundance, Thinking Indie, Tries to Hone Its Artsy Edge

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Sundance, under new leadership, is trying to tilt risky.
 The programmers of the Sundance Film Festival on Wednesday announced a schedule of competition films that at least in their view, reflect no particular current in independent cinema except one: the artier the better.
 ''We really tried to hunker down and make some hard decisions,'' said John Cooper, the festival's new director. ''We tried not to be wishy-washy about what is independent, which I know has been a criticism in the past. We weren't going to be swayed by the marketability of a film.''
 Mr. Cooper, who took over in February following the departure of Geoffrey Gilmore, who held the director job for 19 years, pointed to selected pictures like ''Blue Valentine,'' a raw portrait of an unhappy marriage from a relatively unknown director, Derek Cianfrance. ''Howl,'' a look at the young Allen Ginsberg's creation of his groundbreaking poem, is another selection that ''risks against commerciality,'' Mr. Cooper said. 
 Hollywood is likely to debate that one -- ''Howl,'' directed by Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman (''The Celluloid Closet''), stars the highly promotable James Franco -- but ''Night Catches Us'' is safely in the risky category. The film, from the first-time director Tanya Hamilton, is an ambitious period piece set in 1978 Philadelphia; a young man returns to the race-torn neighborhood where he had come of age during the Black Power movement.
 The festival, both a pre-eminent showcase for American cinema and a free-wheeling bazaar for movie executives, is scheduled for Jan. 21 to 31 in Park City, Utah, and several surrounding towns. (A full list of the competition films can be found at nytimes.com/carpetbagger.)
 A weakening independent movie market, particularly when it comes to the financing of art-house pictures, did not affect the number of submissions, as some festival watchers had predicted, perhaps because it takes so long to make a film that some of the deals for this year's submissions may have been struck before the credit crunch. Feature-length submissions from the United States totaled 1,920 -- a slight increase after falling by 6 percent last year -- while foreign submissions climbed to 1,804.
 There were 113 features selected (including noncompetition films still to be announced), down from 118 last year.
 Sundance has always made risky selections. Last year's grand jury prize and audience award in the United States dramatic competition went to ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire,'' about a 300-pound Harlem teenager who suffers extreme abuse from both parents. Hardly a marketing cakewalk, although it has been doing quite well in its early weeks of limited release and is frequently cited as an Oscar contender.
 But as independent film boomed over the last decade, the festival at times showed a willingness to give premiere slots as favors to studios or put too much emphasis on advance buzz from sales agents and scouts when making selections. Mr. Cooper, along with Sundance's founder, Robert Redford, is trying to address such criticism and show that the festival is not rigid in its thinking.
 ''It is not our place to decide what will be shown a year from now in theaters,'' Mr. Redford said in a statement. Mr. Redford, who Mr. Cooper said had become more of a ''silent partner'' in recent years, has come back into planning for the festival full time.
 A swing toward art over commerce is perhaps inevitable given the market. Over the last two years studios have folded specialty divisions (Warner Independent, Paramount Vantage) or scaled them back drastically (Miramax). Outside the studio system, financing has become extremely difficult to obtain due to the credit crisis and recession.
 ''We have a film industry in great evolutionary flux, but we can't think too much about that,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''We have to stay on mission and let the industry sort itself out.''
 Among other changes, Mr. Cooper opted to end the tradition of having one opening-night film. Instead the festival will dive straight into the competition with one narrative, one documentary and one shorts program playing on Day 1. This year's installment will also have a new section highlighting innovative work in ''low- and no-budget filmmaking.'' The section, called Next, will include eight United States films. (Selections will be announced on Thursday.)
 Still, this is Sundance. A-list names like George Clooney and Brad Pitt may not be on the roster, but there are still plenty of well-known people involved with selected films to make for a buzzy festival.
 Kristen Stewart, the 19-year-old co-star of the ''Twilight'' blockbusters, plays a New Orleans stripper in ''Welcome to the Rileys,'' which also stars James Gandolfini as a damaged businessman. Mr. Cooper noted that Ms. Stewart also has a noncompetition entry: in ''The Runaways,'' directed by Floria Sigismondi, Ms. Stewart plays a young Joan Jett.
 Peppering the selection list are films with bold-face names like Ryan Gosling, Michelle Williams, Natalie Portman, Rainn Wilson, Edie Falco, Mary-Louise Parker and Jon Hamm. In the still-grinding-away department is Piper Laurie, who plays a grandmother in ''Hesher,'' about a mysterious troublemaker who moves in with a family trying to cope with devastating loss.
 Multiple films came from actors turned directors. Leading the pack is Mark Ruffalo (''You Can Count on Me'') with the quirky drama ''Sympathy for Delicious,'' about a newly paralyzed D.J. who gets more than he bargained for when he seeks out the world of faith healing. Written by Christopher Thornton, it stars Orlando Bloom and Juliette Lewis, among others.
 With documentaries, Mr. Cooper said, efforts were made to avoid thematic gridlock. So favorite topics like environmental calamity and war are represented but by fewer entries than in years past. ''Gas Land,'' directed by Josh Fox, looks at the downside -- dying livestock, toxic streams -- of the natural gas drilling craze; ''Restrepo,'' directed by Sebastian Junger and Tim Hetherington, focuses on the war in Afghanistan.
 On the lighter side are selections like ''Joan Rivers: a Piece of Work,'' directed by Ricki Stern and Annie Sundberg, and ''Smash His Camera,'' the story of a reviled paparazzo from the director Leon Gast. ''The documentary selections this year are much more nontraditional in style -- more nonfiction storytelling versus the standard format,'' Mr. Cooper said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Cooper looking at the board where he and his team schedule Sundance festival screenings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
'HOWL': James Franco portrays the young Allen Ginsberg as he is creating his signature poem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOJO WHILDEN)
'WELCOME TO THE RILEYS': James Gandolfini as a businessman and Kristen Stewart as a stripper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHLEEN LATLIP/URHA EDITORIAL)
 'RESTREPO': A scene from the film directed by Sebastian Junger and Tim Hetherington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM HETHERINGTON) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FILM GENRES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: KRISTEN STEWART (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



85 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: The Job Summit

 BODY:
To be a success, the White House job summit on Thursday must do more than put ideas on the table. It must produce an agenda for creating jobs. 
 Americans need to know how the administration plans to reduce a 10.2 percent unemployment rate -- a 26-year high and rising. They need to know how the government will foster hiring and help replace the eight million jobs eliminated so far in two years of recession. Economic growth alone cannot repair damage that severe.
 First, President Obama must change the terms of the debate. When he announced the job meeting last month, Mr. Obama said he was determined to meet the ''great challenge'' of unemployment. In the next breath, he tried to dampen expectations, warning of the ''limits to what government can do and should do.'' He said he was open to ''responsible'' and ''demonstrably good'' ideas to create jobs. It would be tragic if that pre-empts bold ones. 
 Mr. Obama's mixed message in the teeth of a crisis seems intended to appease Republicans and conservative Democrats who argue that federal budget deficits preclude more aid to combat rising unemployment. The argument is wrong, and giving it credence puts politics ahead of Americans' needs. 
 Mr. Obama must instead make the case that the immediate need for more federal help trumps the longer-term need for deficit reduction; otherwise, the economy is in for a self-reinforcing stretch of joblessness that would cost more in the end than additional spending today. Mr. Obama should detail separate plans for taming the deficit -- including ironclad commitments to pay for health care reform. What he must not do is continue to conflate the need for job creation with the need for deficit reduction to the detriment of jobs. 
 Once job creation has the priority status it deserves, the next step is to build on proven programs and add new ones to address the scale and nature of joblessness. 
 Unemployment benefits are crucial to preserving and creating jobs because they provide spending money that would otherwise be missing from the economy. A first order of business must be to extend the package of jobless benefits that passed in early 2009 and is scheduled to expire at the end of this year. Similarly, with state budgets in critical condition, another round of fiscal relief is needed. Such aid is funneled quickly to employees, beneficiaries and contractors and helps to stave off tax increases and spending cuts. 
 Beyond that, the government must tackle direct job creation. A $10 billion program to build and renovate schools that was cut at the last minute from this year's stimulus bill should be resurrected. Passage of the transportation bill and the clean-water bill, currently before Congress, are also important for job creation because they provide financing for specific projects. 
 With unemployment among 16- to 24-year-olds at 19 percent, direct job creation must also provide entry-level and generally low-skilled jobs, such as repair and maintenance work at local, state and federal parks and other public venues. Pragmatism should guide whether money for the projects is funneled through local or state governments, nonprofits or federal agencies. 
 There are several suggestions for how to help pay for job projects, such as a financial transactions tax on Wall Street and redeploying money from the bank bailout to small business lending. An aim should be to identify financing sources that will phase in over time as the economy strengthens. 
 A successful summit will position Mr. Obama well to use the State of the Union address in January to focus on even larger public and private investments that will be necessary to develop the new industries and new technologies that will be the basis for good jobs at good pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); TAX LAW (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



86 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: A Clandestine Courtship

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
The secret meeting was set for an early July afternoon in a condominium along the ninth hole of a golf course in Sun Valley, Idaho. Jeffrey R. Immelt, General Electric's chief executive, arrived first, taking care to avoid being spotted by his own employee, Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, who was mingling with other executives nearby. 
 Ralph J. Roberts, the 89-year-old co-founder of the cable giant Comcast, and its chief operating officer, Steve Burke, arrived 15 minutes later.
 The gathering, which had been brokered by James B. Lee Jr., a vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase, was set up for one purpose: Mr. Immelt, who had resisted the urge to sell NBC for years, was finally ready to sell. For months, he had been in discussions with Mr. Roberts's son, Brian, Comcast's chief executive. But now, at the investment bank Allen & Company's annual media conference -- known for big deal-making -- he wanted to hear it from the mouth of the company's patriarch. 
 ''Do you want to do this?'' Mr. Immelt, dressed informally in a polo shirt, asked Mr. Roberts, who was wearing his trademark bow tie, and Mr. Burke, who was Mr. Immelt's classmate at Harvard Business School.
 ''Yes,'' Mr. Burke said.
 Mr. Roberts, who founded Comcast in Tupelo, Miss., in 1963, said: ''I've done a lot of deals in my life. Every deal has its time. This is the right time.''
 On Thursday, G.E. is planning to finally announce what had leaked more than a month ago: it is selling a controlling stake in NBC Universal to Comcast, a deal that will once again reshape the media landscape. 
 The transaction, the largest during Mr. Immelt's tenure as chief executive, will also reshape G.E., refocusing it into an industrial and financial conglomerate without the flash -- and financial instability -- of a television and film business. And in the process, he has been undoing much of the legacy of his predecessor, John F. Welch Jr.
 The deal was a long time in the making and was filled with meetings at the Four Seasons hotel in Philadelphia, in New York City apartments and on helicopter rides. It also featured code names: G.E. was Green, NBC was Navy, Vivendi was Violet and Comcast was Crimson (because of the Harvard link). 
 More than a half-dozen executives involved in those discussions, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the deal had yet to be formally announced and because the negotiations were considered confidential, helped reconstruct a nearly yearlong dance between G.E. and Comcast.
 Mr. Roberts had long wanted to control not just the pipes into people's homes, but the television shows and movies that flow over them. But since 2004, when he sought and failed to buy the Walt Disney Company, the media industry's economics had cratered. Broadcast television was suffering through ratings declines, and a falloff in DVD sales had dented profits in Hollywood. But cable channels, of which NBC Universal has many, were flourishing. 
 The prospect of a deal with G.E. began in earnest in the late afternoon on March 3 on the 48th floor of JPMorgan, when Mr. Roberts and Mr. Burke came to meet with that firm's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, at the behest of Mr. Lee. 
 The meeting began with a general discussion of Comcast's finances, but Mr. Roberts said the company did not need a bank to raise money. Instead, he changed direction by saying he had been pursuing Mr. Immelt about NBC but felt like he was getting nowhere. He felt that G.E. was in a vulnerable position and highlighted the fact that when NBC acquired the Weather Channel earlier in the year, it partnered with private equity instead of buying the network on its own. It was a sign, Mr. Roberts believed, that Mr. Immelt might not be fully committed to the television business. Mr. Lee said he was having breakfast the next morning with Mr. Immelt and agreed to mention Comcast's interest. 
 A day later, Mr. Roberts was standing in the lobby of a Marriott hotel in Baltimore, where his daughter was playing in a squash tournament, when Mr. Immelt called his cellphone. 
 ''I want you to know that I'm going to study this,'' Mr. Immelt told Mr. Roberts. The two agreed that measures should be taken to ensure secrecy and that only a handful of executives should be informed. Mr. Roberts, who had the failed hostile takeover bid for Disney behind him, had one requirement: he said he would not participate in an auction. 
 ''We've got to be monogamous,'' he said.
 Mr. Immelt's evolution in thinking about NBC had come over the last year as his company's fortunes were battered during the financial crisis. In the weeks after Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy, Mr. Immelt had spent many hours on the phone with the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., worrying about the conglomerate's fate. 
 In the beginning of 2009, as the stock market continued to plunge and G.E. hovered as low as $5.87 a share, Mr. Immelt listened to presentations about its assets at a management retreat, where his thoughts began to crystallize. NBC Universal, whose cable channels continued to do well but whose flagship broadcast network was deteriorating, no longer appeared to be core to the business and he thought his capital could be redeployed better elsewhere.
 Comcast had also undertaken an internal review to consider where the company could grow by acquisition. It considered buying another cable company, a mobile phone company or even Facebook. At one point, it considered acquiring Viacom, which owns several cable networks but is unencumbered by a broadcast network, but Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder in Viacom, was not interested in selling.
 As the spring wore on, G.E. and Comcast met repeatedly, trying to come up with a structure for the deal. By August, the broad points, in which Comcast would acquire 51 percent of the company, with G.E. holding 49 percent, were agreed upon. G.E. can begin selling its remaining stake back to NBC three and a half years after the deal closes at a 20 percent premium to the market value. However, it would have to share 50 percent of any increase in the value of NBC with Comcast.
 The deal nearly fell apart several times. Once, when it seemed that it had been derailed over price and structure, Michael J. Angelakis, Comcast's chief financial officer, flew to the summer home of Keith S. Sherin, G.E.'s chief financial officer, in Cape Cod and took him and his wife out to dinner to put the deal back on track. By the end of dinner, they had shaken hands.
 The largest complication was that Vivendi, the French conglomerate that owned 20 percent of the company, could force G.E. to pursue an initial public offering if they could not come to terms on a deal. 
 Even within the last two weeks amid a constant stream of leaks, it appeared the deal could collapse. Vivendi wanted to value the business at $6.1 billion; G.E. wanted to value it at $5.5 billion. They ended up at $5.8 billion, but there was still a worry about what would happen if G.E.'s deal with Comcast were blocked by regulators.
 Mr. Immelt, after attending the state dinner last month at the White House, flew to Paris to persuade Vivendi to complete the deal. An agreement was reached over the weekend after he offered to pay Vivendi $2 billion even if the Comcast deal collapsed.
 For nearly six months, only a small cadre of G.E. and Comcast executives knew about the deal -- nobody at NBC was ever told -- and it had not leaked. On Sept. 30, several hours after the talks were disclosed to a tiny group of executives at NBC, the blockbuster talks appeared on TheWrap.com, a Hollywood news site. 
 ''I'm telling you to be prepared for this to leak,'' Mr. Sherin had told Mr. Angelakis earlier that day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg.B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
CHART: LOOKING FOR SYNERGY: Comcast is the nation's largest cable provider, while NBC Universal is a multifaceted entertainment company with holdings in broadcast television, film and cable. (Sources: The companies
S.E.C.
 Baseline Research) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); GOLF (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); FILM (61%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ALLEN & CO INC (83%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (74%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); VIVENDI (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); VIV (PAR) (58%); VIV (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (74%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (74%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (90%); JULIA ROBERTS (79%); JACK WELCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (74%); IDAHO, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009



87 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Amid the Boutiques, SoHo Is Still Avant-Garde

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
Pity SoHo, the neighborhood that launched a thousand acronyms and, in the process, earned the art world's collective disdain. Once it had Gordon Matta-Clark, the New Museum and any gallery worth mentioning; now it has Prada, Topshop and the Apple Store.
 But there's avant-garde life in SoHo yet, particularly if you include an area beyond its northern and western fronts, alternately known as the Lower West Side and the Far West Village, to which the gallery district now extends (and which may one day be home to Renzo Piano's 185,000-square-foot downtown Whitney).
 Generally speaking, the galleries in SoHo proper are survivors. They stuck around through the recession of the early '90s and the Great Migration to Chelsea (though those that could opened branches in other neighborhoods). 
 But they have some enduring company: Dia's decades-old installations of Walter de Maria's ''Earth Room'' and ''Broken Kilometer,'' at spaces on Wooster Street and West Broadway; various nonprofit art groups; and alternative spaces . 
 For a quick study of local art history, there's a fascinating show called ''Avant-Guide to NYC: Discovering Absence'' at the alternative space Apexart. The show, which comes with a map/brochure by the design collaborative Dexter Sinister, deals with long-gone sites of the city's art scene, including John Cage's Monroe Street loft (addressed in a mixed-media piece with old photographs and a rendering of the building) and the first East Village galleries of the art dealer Gracie Mansion (who is seen in a video visiting the restaurant and shop that have replaced them). Don't be confused by the Kim's Video sign outside Apexart; it's part of the exhibition. 
 You can often find art that dates from SoHo's glory days at the Peter Freeman gallery, hidden on the sixth floor of a building at the congested corner of Broadway and Prince Street. Up now is a reprise of a 1974 installation by the wry, museum-mocking Belgian Conceptualist Marcel Broodthaers (1924-76). It consists of a caged African gray parrot, a set of palm trees, some exhibition catalogs and a recording of the artist reading one of his poems in French.
 The poem is mind-numbingly repetitive, but the bird is strangely silent. (She only talks when visitors aren't around, according to a gallery employee.) That's just one of the ways in which this piece, ''Don't Say I Didn't Say So -- The Parrot,'' confounds expectations.
 At Ronald Feldman Fine Arts, Vitaly Komar (formerly of the duo Komar & Melamid) is showing new paintings that fuse religious, political and New Age symbolism. Crosses, sickles and serpents combine in red-and-blue Cubist compositions, with a bust of Stalin thrown in for good measure. Mr. Komar appears stuck in an ironic post-Soviet groove; by comparison, his erstwhile partner Alex Melamid has been making paintings of hip-hop stars. 
 Also in a logjam is Slater Bradley, at Team Gallery, still practicing his '90s-fanboy schtick in paintings based on bootleg Joy Division album covers. Photographs of wanly attractive young models and a video of a child romping in the surf don't portend a way out.
 But just around the corner is Kristin Baker's rousing show at Deitch, her third solo there. Ms. Baker has been pushing her large-scale, Day-Glo abstractions into more organic territory, while retaining a futuristic edge. Much effort has been put into the three-panel ''Bash Bish Rubicon,'' but don't miss the modestly sized works on structural supports of transparent PVC and aluminum. 
 For competent abstraction on a much smaller scale, look to Helmut Federle's five paintings at Peter Blum. In each, angular forms in nuanced shades of olive drab swirl around a central void. And for humorous abstraction, stop at the Drawing Center's Ree Morton survey.
 Next door at the Spencer Brownstone Gallery, the Barcelona artist Jaime Pitarch is showing everyday objects sardonically recast as sculpture. He's shaped surveyors' levels into cursive letters (spelling something unprintable here) and carved jagged pieces from a Coke can to make it look like a shattered glass vessel. 
 Crossing SoHo's western boundary, West Broadway, you'll come to some of the neighborhood's most recent arrivals. The two current solos at the four-year-old HarrisLieberman gallery, of Matthias Dornfeld and Virginia Poundstone, split the difference between tasteful painting and the theory set. 
 Mr. Dornfeld, a German, paints women and vases of flowers with a cruel charisma reminiscent of Emil Nolde. Ms. Poundstone's installation, involving a wall-to-floor landscape photo and a ceramic kitchen counter, offers commentary on the Dutch tulipomania and more recent market bubbles.
 A few blocks north, Kaari Upson has a fantastically weird and affecting show at Maccarone. There's a huge, grottolike sculpture with several video projections showing on the walls; a series of ''paintings'' made with smoke on oil-covered panels; and (best of all) extremely violent drawing-sculptures made by crushing a charcoal-covered wax figure against the wall. It all revolves around a narrative of stalkerish love and possession.
 Michele Maccarone's neighbor, Gavin Brown, is between shows (Spencer Sweeney opens on Wednesday), so it's north and a little east to the heart of the West Village. Just past the Magnolia Bakery's cupcakes and across from Cafe Cluny, you'll find the bijoulike town house of the Tracy Williams gallery. Perhaps it's the setting, but Alyssa Pheobus's text-based drawings on large sheets of handmade paper there seem to have softened since her solo show in Chelsea last January. They now include lullaby lyrics and a Sufi devotional poem, albeit surrounded by barbed lines in heavy graphite.
 Just as charming is a show of paintings by Liu Ye a few blocks away at Sperone Westwater. His doll-like girls in traveling clothes defy most of the agit-pop stereotypes of Chinese contemporary art, though titles like ''Banned Book 2'' are quietly subversive.
 The logical wrap-up to the tour is ''Looking Back: The White Columns Annual,'' a year-end highlights show at the alternative space White Columns that is unabashedly subjective. This year's installment has been organized by Miriam Katzeff and James Hoff, who run a nonprofit artists' book publisher called Primary Information.
 The art they've chosen is aggressive, confrontational and very downtown. The mix includes a candid lightbox photograph taken at a gallery party by Reena Spaulings; large and jubilant paintings by Dorothy Iannone and Albert Oehlen; Cyprien Gaillard's violent and mesmerizing video ''Desniansky raion''; and Lutz Bacher's paparazzo-emulating series ''Jackie & Me.'' 
 Where the West Village meets the meatpacking district, art is just one of many diversions. But White Columns, it's worth remembering, was founded by Gordon Matta-Clark in a loft on Greene Street. Galleries that are vital and adaptable can live on, long after neighborhoods have turned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An untitled work in Kaari Upson's exhibition at the Maccarone gallery. (C37)
''Looking Back,'' a year-end highlights show at the alternative space White Columns, is unabashedly subjective.
 Kristin Baker's ''Tabloid Slipstream'' at the Deitch gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C40) MAP (C40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); HISTORY (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



88 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Hofstra Eliminates 72-Year-Old Program

BYLINE: By KEVIN ARMSTRONG; Judy Battista contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At 9:15 a.m. Thursday, Hofstra's football players received a mass text message that read, ''Urgent: team meeting @ 10 in the Pride Lounge.''
 When Jamari Miller, a redshirt freshman defensive lineman, arrived in the room, he saw teammates joking around. ''Then these people in suits stood in the front,'' he said. ''They told us our program was dead.''
 Hofstra's decision to eliminate its 72-year-old football program because of costs and waning interest among fans shocked players, coaches and alumni. Hofstra became the second Colonial Athletic Association university to drop football in less than two weeks. Northeastern officials terminated their struggling program Nov. 23. 
 ''I expect you will see these types of decisions accelerate at smaller institutions as they must make critical decisions,'' E. Gordon Gee, Ohio State's president and an outspoken supporter for reform in college athletics, said in a phone interview while traveling in Rhode Island. ''In times of economic distress, academic programs should and will win out.'' 
 Hofstra's president, Stuart Rabinowitz, said the $4.5 million invested annually in football would be channeled to student scholarships and other academic priorities. The board of trustees did not reach its decision until Wednesday night after a two-year internal study.
 Several options were considered to save the football program, which attracted an average of 4,260 fans in a 15,000-seat stadium this season. A move out of the Football Championship Subdivision (formerly Division I-AA) to the Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division I-A) and the possibility of competing in the Bowl Championship Series was weighed but dismissed as delaying the inevitable.
 ''The Southeastern Conference and the Big Ten weren't calling us,'' Rabinowitz said. ''It proved to be impossible to justify the money and upgrades that would be necessary for that jump.''
 Budget issues have forced administrators to deal with what Massachusetts Athletic Director John McCutcheon called a ''perfect storm of reduction'' in recent months.
 ''I don't think it was any secret that Northeastern had a facility issue and infrastructural challenges,'' McCutcheon said. ''Hofstra is more surprising with its stadium already there.''
 Hofstra, which finished its 5-6 season with a 52-38 victory against UMass on Nov. 21, had begun off-season workouts.
 ''I felt like we had established a family,'' said the junior defensive lineman Omar Jacobs, a transfer from Laney College in Oakland, Calif. 
 The Pride established a tradition of producing N.F.L. players in the last two decades. The former Jets receiver Wayne Chrebet, the current New Orleans Saints wideout Marques Colston and the Steelers offensive tackle Willie Colon reached the N.F.L. after stellar careers at Hofstra. According to Pro-Football-Reference.com, 10 other former Hofstra players have been drafted by professional teams.
 Chrebet, whose No. 3 jersey is one of five retired by the university, was getting off a plane in Toronto, where the Jets played the Buffalo Bills on Thursday night, when he began receiving text messages and calls.
 ''Since I left, they built the new stadium, new fieldhouse, new clubhouse,'' he said, adding: ''Hofstra should have a football team. We're not a huge school, but I'm sure kids who grew up in Long Island, dream of playing at Hofstra. We're a good program.''
 In a statement, Colston said he was ''saddened and shocked,'' adding, ''I owe a tremendous amount of gratitude to the university, my coaches and my former teammates and I am sure that they share in my disappointment.''
 Throughout the day, players made their way into the locker room to retrieve equipment and clothing. Some rolled their gear away in gray trash cans and others stuffed blue and yellow garb into book bags. 
 ''We learned it's a business move,'' said Zamel Johnson, a redshirt freshman cornerback from Port Richmond High on Staten Island. ''There's a lot of blank faces and tears being shed today across campus.''
 None of Hofstra's other 17 programs were cut. ''We're not waiting for another shoe to drop,'' said Tom Pecora, the men's basketball coach. ''The president assured us this morning.''
 Meanwhile, the football program's 84 players will have their scholarships honored if they stay through graduation. ''We know it's naive to think they will all stay, but the offer is there,'' Rabinowitz said.
 The contract of Coach Dave Cohen will be honored through next season unless he finds another job in the interim. His assistants, who do not have contracts, will remain on payroll through Aug. 31 and will be flown to a coaches convention to meet with potential employers.
 ''There's no joy in any of this for me,'' Rabinowitz said. 
 As Jamari Miller left the locker room around noon, he wore an all-blue warm-up outfit. His next step was to contact colleges who had recruited him. Among them was Northeastern.
 ''They're no longer an option I guess,'' he said. ''It seems like there's less schools than just a few years ago.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEXT MESSAGING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



89 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: An Underemployed Victim of the Recession, Now Ill and Facing Eviction

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
Teresa Gates is angry, and she doesn't care who knows it.
 In the current recession, ''New York is one of the hardest-hit cities,'' Ms. Gates said in an incredulous tone that grew louder as she went on. ''A whole bunch of us are losing our homes. If we're not losing our jobs, our hours are being slashed in half. We have no money, nowhere to turn, and then we go to welfare'' offices, only, in her case, to be rejected for emergency aid, she said, though putting it more colorfully than that. 
 ''In a country that is supposed to be as prosperous as America,'' she added, ''it is absolutely disgraceful.'' 
 The reason for her outrage is her sudden departure from solvency, a development set off by the one-two punch of the economic meltdown and a stroke.
 ''All of a sudden, it just felt like the left side of my face was on fire,'' she said of the stroke she had, in July. ''My lip felt numb, like I'd been to the dentist and got shot full of Novocain.''
 Ms. Gates, 49, already suffered from an assortment of ailments -- diabetes, hypertension, osteoarthritis, depression, anxiety and a herniated disc -- that required eight medicines a day. 
 The blood clot that caused her stroke was on her brain stem, and luckily it dissipated, causing no lasting damage. But Ms. Gates did suffer dizziness, weakness and vision disturbances, and the episode worsened her depression. She cried every day in the hospital, and continued crying when she returned home. 
 And she did not have time to be sick, having just completed a course of training in home health care after 30 years of administrative work. She was laid off from an office job in March 2008, and employment, which she secures through a temp agency, has been only part time since. 
 This is where she gets really mad.
 ''I have a two-page resume with all the jobs I've had, and all the skills I have, and I can't get anything,'' she said. ''If I lose my home, I have no idea where I'm going to go. Probably a motel, or a shelter, where I'll have to sleep with one eye open.''
 Her two-bedroom apartment in Franklin Plaza in East Harlem was passed down to her when her mother died in 1991. She has lived there since she was 3, and still sleeps in her childhood bedroom. She pays $803 a month, and without steady work she has fallen behind for a second time this year and faces eviction. 
 She still gets unemployment benefits, because she works only part-time. She used to get $226 a week, but now gets $25 extra, for reasons she does not understand. ''I guess it's out of the generosity of the state's heart,'' she said. 
 In April, Ms. Gates, who is single and has no children, owed $1,969 in maintenance and faced eviction for the first time. Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, two of the seven beneficiary agencies of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, paid her debt. But she fell behind again, and now owes $1,885. She faces an eviction proceeding in housing court on Dec. 21, and may ask the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies for further assistance.
 Her part-time job as a home health care aide pays minimum wage and offers no health insurance. She was not approved for an emergency loan from the Human Resources Administration to help with the arrears in April because officials did not think she would be able to pay it back. Her application for Medicaid, which she submitted during her hospitalization, was approved after what she called an agonizing wait. 
 ''I've never been in this situation before,'' she said. ''I've never not been able to pay.'' 
 She cannot even afford a MetroCard, she said.
 ''If I break $200 a month,'' in earnings, ''I'm doing good. The only thing I can afford to do is go around the corner and come back.''
 Previously recorded $2,202,234 Recorded Wed. 8,220 Total $2,210,454 Last year to date $2,403,237 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Teresa Gates in the apartment she has lived in since she was 3. ''I have a two-page resume with all the jobs I've had,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EVICTION (89%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); STROKES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); HYPERTENSION (67%); BRAIN (64%); ARTHRITIS (50%); DIABETES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



90 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4195 words

HEADLINE: Theater Listings: Dec. 4 -- 10

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
THEATER
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
 'THE GREAT RECESSION' In previews; opens on Thursday. The Bats perform one-acts by six of the city's leading young playwrights (including Will Eno, Sheila Callaghan and Thomas Bradshaw) that explore the impact of the economy. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa , (212) 352-3101, theflea.org.20091204
 'THE LAST CARGO CULT' In previews; opens on Monday. Mike Daisey's latest monologue reports on his trip to a remote South Pacific island whose people worship America. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.20091204
 'A LITTLE NIGHT MUSIC' In previews; opens on Dec. 13. Catherine Zeta-Jones and Angela Lansbury star in this London transfer of the Sondheim revival. Trevor Nunn directs. Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20091204 
 'RACE' In previews; opens on Sunday. James Spader, Richard Thomas, David Alan Grier and Kerry Washington star in the new Mamet provocation, set in a law firm. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20091204
 'SO HELP ME GOD!' In previews; opens on Monday. Anna Chlumsky and Kristen Johnston star in the Mint Theater's revival of this backstage farce. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com.20091204
 Broadway
 'BURN THE FLOOR' A nonstop exhibition of pop ballroom dancing, directed and choreographed by Jason Gilkison. A little tacky and vulgar, but would you want your steamy cha-chas and tangos any other way? (2:05). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)20091204
 'BYE BYE BIRDIE' Robert Longbottom's color-coded revival of this 1960 musical satire is a painful example of misapplied talent. The unlucky cast members include John Stamos, Gina Gershon and Bill Irwin (2:20). Henry Miller's Theater, 124 West 43rd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)20091204
 'FELA!' This transporting musical biography of a Nigerian revolutionary of song doesn't so much tell a story as soak an audience to and through the skin with the style and sensibility called Afrobeat. There has never been anything on Broadway like Bill T. Jones's kinetic production, which stars the charismatic Sahr Ngaujah and Kevin Mambo (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'FINIAN'S RAINBOW' A glorious cast restores the luster of this oddball 1947 musical with a first-rate score by E. Y. Harburg and Burton Lane. Kate Baldwin and Cheyenne Jackson are the frisky lovers, Jim Norton the wily Irishman with a purloined pot of gold, and Christopher Fitzgerald the leprechaun on the lam. Daft? Yes, but heaven for musical theater lovers (2:25) St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'GOD OF CARNAGE'Yasmina Reza's farce about combustible parents in conflict, impeccably directed by Matthew Warchus. Christine Lahti, Annie Potts, Jimmy Smits and Ken Stott make up the new set of brawlers.(1:30). Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'HAIR' (Tony Award for best musical revival.) Diane Paulus's thrilling, emotionally rich revival of the 1967 rock musical delivers what Broadway otherwise hasn't felt this season: the intense, unadulterated joy and anguish of that bipolar state called youth. A production that finds the complexity and deep ambivalence in a show people tend to remember as a feel-good free-for-all (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'IN THE NEXT ROOM (OR THE VIBRATOR PLAY)'Sarah Ruhl's delightful new play is set in the late 19th century in the adjoining parlor and consulting room of a doctor who specializes in treating ''hysteria'' in women with the use of a newfangled electrified aid. Michael Cerveris is the kindly doctor, Laura Benanti his curious wife. A real novelty: a sex comedy written for adults (2:30). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'IRVING BERLIN'S WHITE CHRISTMAS' This seasonal offering, a stage version of the 1950s movie with some additional songs drafted for the occasion, features new faces in the main roles this year, but it's just as lukewarm as ever. The most interesting addition is David Ogden Stiers as the retired general at whose Vermont inn most of the action takes place (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Neil Genzlinger)20091204
 'MEMPHIS' In the city of the title in the 1950s, a pioneering white radio D.J. (the endearing Chad Kimball) falls in love with R&B music and one of its comely practitioners (the lovely Montego Glover) in this slick but essentially soulless musical written by David Bryan and Joe DiPietro (''The Toxic Avenger'') and fleetly directed by Christopher Ashley. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'NEXT TO NORMAL' No show on Broadway makes as direct a grab for the heart -- or wrings it as thoroughly -- as this brave, breathtaking musical. Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey's portrait of a manic-depressive suburban mom (the astounding Alice Ripley) and her family, directed by Michael Greif, isn't a feel-good musical. It's a feel-everything musical (2:20). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'RAGTIME' Marcia Milgrom Dodge's appealingly modest interpretation of this 1998 musical about early-20th-century American growing pains, adapted from E. L. Doctorow's novel, finds an affecting, uneasy human soul within the work's panoramic sweep. This production doesn't disguise the work's hearty preachiness, but it elicits glimmers of delicate beauty (2:45). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'ROCK OF AGES' The Sunset Strip in the 1980s is the setting for this absurdly enjoyable jukebox musical weaving more than two dozen arena-rock hits from the glory years of MTV -- from Journey and Pat Benatar to Poison and Whitesnake -- into a story of heartbreak and warped-vinyl dreams. Big hair, songs that are trashy fun, fabulous cast (2:25). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'THE ROYAL FAMILY' This unevenly cast, sumptuous-looking revival of George S. Kaufman and Edna Ferber's 1927 portrait of a theatrical dynasty takes a while to find its rhythms. But as a stage-addicted mother and daughter, Rosemary Harris and Jan Maxwell spin hokum into pure moonlight (2:40). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'SHREK THE MUSICAL' This musical cavalcade of storybook effigies, adapted from the animated film of the same title, can feel like 40 blocks' worth of a Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, accompanied by an exhaustingly jokey commentary. But Brian d'Arcy James and the hypertalented Sutton Foster find a sweet, goofy chemistry as an ogre and a princess (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'SUPERIOR DONUTS' The new play from the ''August: Osage County'' author Tracy Letts is a warm-hearted, bile-free comedy about the friendship between an emotionally stunted ex-radical (Michael McKean) and the brash young man he hires to help out in the establishment of the title (Jon Michael Hill, in an exciting Broadway debut). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'WEST SIDE STORY' In a startlingly sweet revival of this epochal musical, Arthur Laurents trades insolence for innocence, with dividends and losses. If the Jets and the Sharks seem too cute to be true, the show's doomed lovers (played by Josefina Scaglione and Matt Cavenaugh) have rarely been more affecting. And as Anita, Karen Olivo is a stunner (2:35). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, near 46th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'WISHFUL DRINKING'Carrie Fisher's brut-dry, deeply funny one-woman show allows you to see the world through the self-dissociating gaze of a child of Hollywood who has always lived in a fishbowl (2:20). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)20091204
 Off Broadway
 'AVENUE Q' Even without legs of their own, the singing hand puppets of this Tony-winning musical are still standing tall in their new Off Broadway digs. This ''Sesame Street''-style show about being young and jobless in New York remains fresh, in all senses of the word (2:15) New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'BIOGRAPHY' This cheeky production of S. N. Behrman's 1932 play is clever, well played and Cowardesque but sincere, with a cheerily contemporary feminist viewpoint. It's the tale of a single portrait artist (Tracy Shayne) in love with life, her memoirs and her men (1:15). Theater 3 at the Mint, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com. (Anita Gates)20091204
 'THE BROTHER/SISTER PLAYS' PARTS 1 & 2 Tarell Alvin McCraney's gorgeous trilogy of poetic plays, about hard lives in the bayou country of Louisiana, are pumped full of a senses-heightening oxygen. Directed by Tina Landau and Robert O'Hara, and acted by a rousingly good ensemble, these interconnected works are the product of that rare and great thing, an original artistic vision. (Part 1 is 2:00; Part 2 is 2:30.) Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)20091204
 'CAPTAIN PANTOJA AND THE SPECIAL SERVICE/PANTALEON Y LAS VISITADORAS' Peruvian soldiers in the Amazon need female companionship, so Captain Pantoja enlists a whole corps of prostitutes, complete with cute, midriff-baring uniforms. This rousing, sexy and surprisingly sweet new musical could give bawdiness a good name. In Spanish with simultaneous English translation. Repertorio Espanol at the Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street , (212) 225-9920, repertorio.org. (Gates)20091204
 'CIRCUMCISE ME' Yisrael Campbell's highly entertaining account of his conversion to Judaism -- not once but three times -- is elevated beyond shtick by the recognition that, aside from the jokes, this is Mr. Campbell's life, and that his quest for a ''relationship with God'' continues even after the house lights rise (1:30). Bleecker Street Theater, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)20091204
 'DREAMGIRLS' Robert Longbottom's bluntly drawn, pastels-saturated revival of Tom Eyen and Henry Krieger's landmark musical, inspired by the career of the Supremes. Audiences should feel a demi-shiver of the excitement generated by the original, but not much more. The talented cast includes the powerhouse Moya Angela (2:30). Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'IDIOT SAVANT' Some kind of wonderful. Richard Foreman's cheerful, mad and eminently sane exaltation of the world as a stage stars an antic and very skillful Willem Dafoe, as a rogue philosopher trapped in a play. Alenka Kraigher and Elina Lowensohn are his female supplicants and tormentors (1:20). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)20091204
 'THE LATE CHRISTOPHER BEAN' The Actors Company Theater has uncovered another jewel with this 1932 comedy about a family upended by greed (2:10). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Ken Jaworowski)20091204
 'LET ME DOWN EASY'Anna Deavere Smith's engrossing new show, drawing as usual on verbatim excerpts from interviews with a wide variety of subjects, addresses the power and the fragility of the human body and its susceptibility to disease. Most moving are the many voices discussing the harsh realities of death, and the possibility of finding grace in its shadow (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 246-4422, 2ST.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'LOVE CHILD' Daniel Jenkins and Robert Stanton star in this rollicking two-hander, which they also wrote. It's a backstage story in which the two men play all the characters: a group of actors staging a ridiculous updating of Euripides, as well as a couple of overly loud audience members. No wigs or costume changes here: it's all in the tics and accents, and half the fun is seeing if you can keep up (1:20). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Genzlinger)20091204
 'LOVE, LOSS, AND WHAT I WORE' Or, shoes, bags and heartaches. A stuffed closet of comic or poignant stories, or both, collected by Nora and Delia Ephron, about women and their relationship to clothes. Featuring a rotating cast of five comics and actors. Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'MY WONDERFUL DAY'Alan Ayckbourn's charming, rueful new comedy considers what fools grown-up mortals be through the eyes of an 8-year-old girl. This perspective lends a piquant freshness to what might have been a formulaic sex farce. The remarkable Ayesha Antoine, as the child, leads a fine cast, directed by Mr. Ayckbourn (1:40). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street , (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Brantley)20091204
 'NIGHTINGALE'Lynn Redgrave's imagined memoir of her maternal grandmother, Beatrice Kempson, examines the limitations and disappointments of women's lives with both frankness and empathy (1:30). City Center, Stage 1, 131 West 55th Street , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)20091204
 'OR,' Maggie Siff (''Mad Men'') plays the pioneering female writer Aphra Behn in Liz Duffy Adams's mock-Restoration comedy, which imagines Behn as one point in a love triangle also involving King Charles II (Andy Paris) and Nell Gwynne (Kelly Hutchinson). Frisky, funny and smart (1:30). Women's Project Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'THE ORPHANS' HOME CYCLE': PART ONE: THE STORY OF A CHILDHOOD On the basis of the three-work production that begins this New York premiere, Horton Foote's heart-piercing, nine-play family album about growing up lonely in early-20th-century Texas should the great adventure of the theater season. Directed with cinematic fluidity and novelistic detail by Michael Wilson (2:50). Signature Theater at Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)20091204
 'OUR TOWN' David Cromer strips away the folksy warmth in which Thornton Wilder's play is often saturated to reveal this classic's quietly mournful depths. This wonderfully intimate production puts a small audience smack in the middle of Grover's Corners (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'POST NO BILLS' This new play by Mando Alvarado takes a long time to say not very much about its main characters, a subway singer and the homeless teenager he takes under his wing. Audrey Esparza as the teenager is the play's best feature, but Mr. Alvarado's inability to recognize a cliche deadens things (2:10). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)20091204
 'SHALOM ALEICHEM: LAUGHTER THROUGH TEARS'Theodore Bikel wrote and stars in this pleasantly nostalgic but meandering one-man show about the great Yiddish writer. The interspersed Yiddish songs are the highlights of the evening (1:30). Folksbiene Theater at the Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street , (646) 312-5073, folksbiene.org. (Rachel Saltz)20091204
 'THE STARRY MESSENGER'Kenneth Lonergan's gentle, compassionate comic drama about a passive astronomy teacher considers fallible, contradictory souls who can never quite articulate what's missing in their lives but always feel the void. The fine ensemble is led by Matthew Broderick, in his most affecting performance in years (2:45). The New Group at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'THE TOXIC AVENGER' A dopey, intermittently funny musical version of the cheapo Troma picture. A geek turned monster in New Jersey tears the limbs off evildoers while singing pop-rock anthems. The cast is fun, but Joe DiPietro's book and David Bryan's music are mostly mediocre (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'UNDER THE GASLIGHT' Will the rich, beautiful, engaged 19th-century society girl Laura Courtland (Amanda Jones) find happiness? Or will the dastardly, lower-class blackmailers ruin her? This appropriately overwrought new production of a hit 1867 melodrama is sometimes touching, sometimes funny and always intriguing just for bringing this old theatrical form back from the dead (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 995-5303, metropolitanplayhouse.com. (Gates)20091204
 'THE UNDERSTUDY'Julie White fabricates bountiful laughs from a sumptuous display of strained nerves in Theresa Rebeck's scattershot backstage comedy, which also stars Justin Kirk (''Weeds'') and Mark-Paul Gosselaar (''Saved by the Bell'') as actors on far different levels of the showbiz totem pole (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20091204
 'ZERO HOUR' Jim Brochu does an excellent imitation of Zero Mostel in his standard issue bio-play (1:50). Theater at Saint Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Jason Zinoman)20091204
 Extravaganzas
 'BIG APPLE CIRCUS: BELLO IS BACK!' The high-haired clown Bello Nock returns to the big top, along with an astonishingly talented group of exciting performers (1:50). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center , (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. (Jaworowski)20091204
 'RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR' With its idealized celebrations of Christmas, New York and Radio City itself, the Spectacular is a curio, a throwback to a golden era of stage shows, complete with Santa, camels and the Rockettes. Corny? Sure. But that's a huge part of its appeal (1:30). Radio City Music Hall , (212) 307-1000, ticketmaster.com. (Daniel M. Gold)20091204
 'WINTUK' This family-oriented holiday extravaganza from Cirque du Soleil is high on action, if short on emotion (1:30). WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Jaworowski)20091204
 Long-Running Shows
 'ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S THE 39 STEPS' A theatrical riff on the 1935 Hitchcock movie (1:45). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'ALTAR BOYZ' A satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'BILLY ELLIOT THE MUSICAL' Ballet dreams in coal country(2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'CELEBRITY AUTOBIOGRAPHY: IN THEIR OWN WORDS' A rotating cast of comics and actors reads selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'CHICAGO' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'THE FANTASTICKS' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'FUERZA BRUTA: LOOK UP' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'GAUGUIN/SAVAGE LIGHT' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)20091204
 'IN THE HEIGHTS' A musical panorama of a neighborhood in Washington Heights undergoing change (2:20). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20091204
 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'THE LION KING' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, at Broadway , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'THE MARVELOUS WONDERETTES' At a 1958 prom, this jukebox musical's title characters sing hits of the era from a female perspective; they return at their 10-year reunion, weathered and wiser. For fanciers of the girl-group sound, the production is an utter charm bomb (2:00). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)20091204
 'MARY POPPINS' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street , (212) 307-4747, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'MY FIRST TIME' Ken Davenport's venture into Web-theater synergy mines a site called MyFirstTime.com to cull stories of inaugural encounters with sex (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ginia Bellafante)20091204
 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'SOUTH PACIFIC' A 1949 tale of men and women unmoored by war (2:50). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'WICKED' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091204
 Last Chance
 'AFTER MISS JULIE'; closes on Sunday. Patrick Marber's adaptation of Strindberg's short shocker from 1888, stiffly directed by Mark Brokaw and starring Sienna Miller, who emerges as sane, healthy and confident, which doesn't help much in her portrayal of a death-courting neurotic. The very good Jonny Lee Miller plays her sexual sparring partner (1:35). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, Manhattan , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)20091204
 'THE AGE OF IRON'; closes on Sunday. Shakespeare's ''Troilus and Cressida,'' trimmed, with bookends taken from ''The Iron Age,'' a play from roughly the same period by Thomas Heywood that also considers the follies of the Trojan War. Epic, yes, but also labored and indifferently acted (2:45). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village , (212) 352-3101, classicstage.org. (Isherwood)20091204
 'THE EMPEROR JONES'; closes on Sunday. Ciaran O'Reilly's inspired, poetic production of Eugene O'Neill's short, brutal drama -- starring a wondrous John Douglas Thompson -- finds Jungian echoes of universal resonance in a work often perceived as a dated portrait of the black man's burden (1:10). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Brantley)20091204
 'HAMLET'; closes on Sunday. Jude Law embodies the Prince of Denmark with lots of energy, many hand gestures and little modulation. Though the look of Michael Grandage's black-on-black production is chicly of the moment, its performances suggest what a 19th-century barnstorming production might have been like. Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'OLEANNA'; closes on Sunday. Doug Hughes's measured revival of David Mamet's confrontational drama from 1992, which stars the excellent Bill Pullman and a luminous Julia Stiles as a university professor and his combative student, pumps the play full of an air of thoughtfulness that paradoxically comes close to smothering it. Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204
 'A STEADY RAIN'; closes on Sunday. Big names, little show. Keith Huff's 90-minute melodrama about Chicago cops, directed by John Crowley, is best regarded as a small, slightly wobbly pedestal on which two gods of the screen -- Daniel Craig and Hugh Jackman -- may stand in order to be worshiped (1:30). Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091204 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'The Brother/Sister Plays': Marc Damon Johnson, left, and Andre Holland in Tarell Alvin McCraney's trilogy of plays about life in the bayou country at the Public Theater. The works are ''the product of that rare and great thing, an original artistic vision,'' Ben Brantley writes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); DANCE (79%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (71%); THEATER (59%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



91 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Court Bars New York's Takeover Of Land for Columbia Campus

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Lisa W. Foderaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A New York appeals court ruled Thursday that the state could not use eminent domain on behalf of Columbia University to obtain parts of a 17-acre site in Upper Manhattan, setting back plans for a satellite campus at a time of discord over government power to acquire property. 
 In a 3-to-2 decision, a panel of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Manhattan annulled the state's 2008 decision to take property for the expansion project, saying that its condemnation procedure was unconstitutional. 
 The majority opinion was scathing in its appraisal of how the ''scheme was hatched,'' using terms like ''sophistry'' and ''idiocy'' in describing how the state went about declaring the neighborhood blighted, the main prerequisite for eminent domain. 
 The $6.3 billion expansion plan is not dead; an appeal has been promised, and Columbia still controls most of the land. But at a time when the government's use of eminent domain on behalf of private interests has become increasingly controversial, the ruling was a boon for opponents.
 ''I feel unbelievable,'' said Nicholas Sprayregen, the owner of several self-storage warehouses in the Manhattanville expansion area and one of two property owners who have refused to sell to the university. ''I was always cautiously optimistic. But I was aware we were going against 50 years of unfair cases against property owners.''
 A spokesman for Columbia, David M. Stone, referred all questions to state officials. 
 Warner Johnston, a spokesman for the Empire State Development Corporation, the agency that approved the use of eminent domain, called the decision ''wrong and inconsistent with established law, as consistently articulated by the New York State Court of Appeals, most recently with respect to E.S.D.C.'s Atlantic Yards project.'' He added, ''E.S.D.C. intends to appeal this decision.''
 The ruling comes less than two weeks after the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, ruled 6 to 1 that the state could exercise eminent domain in taking businesses, public property and private homes on behalf of a Brooklyn developer who planned a 22-acre residential development and a basketball arena.
 Proponents of Columbia's plan expressed optimism that Thursday's decision would be overturned by the Court of Appeals. But Norman Siegel, a lawyer for the holdout owners, called the ruling a ''major victory'' in a state that has been deferential to its power to take private property. 
 ''The decision sets forth a road map for how private property owners in New York and throughout America can fight back when government tries to seize your property in the name of eminent domain,'' he said.
 Columbia embarked in 2003 on its first major expansion in 75 years, saying it had outgrown its Morningside Heights campus. It planned to replace the low-scale industrial buildings north of 125th Street, in the Manhattanville area, with school buildings, laboratories, restaurants and tree-lined streets.
 The court's decision, if it is upheld, is not fatal to the plan. Columbia already owns or controls 61 of 67 buildings in the 17-acre project area. Presumably, it can build around the holdout owners, or come to agreement with them. But the state and the university have sought the entire site.
 Mr. Sprayregen said he never opposed the plan. ''The research and education they will perform are very beneficial,'' he said. ''The fact remains that even if they don't get the last 5 percent, they can still go ahead and build their campus.'' 
 Amrik Singh, who manages two gas stations involved in the case, said: ''I want to thank God and the judges who gave us the decision. We were scared. We were all worried about our jobs.'' 
 Mr. Sprayregen and the family that owns the stations challenged the process the state used in finding that the neighborhood was blighted. 
 Writing for the majority, Justice James M. Catterson said there was a conflict of interest when the state hired the same real estate consultant, AKRF, that Columbia had hired to make the determination of blight. ''We questioned AKRF's ability to provide 'objective advice' to the E.S.D.C., particularly with respect to its preparation of the blight study,'' Justice Catterson wrote.
 The blight designation, the court said, was ''mere sophistry'' about a neighborhood that was already undergoing a renaissance. The state's development corporation committed to rezoning long before the study, ''not for the goal of general economic development or to remediate an area that was blighted before Columbia acquired over 50 percent of the property, but rather solely for the expansion itself.''
 ''Even a cursory examination of the study reveals the idiocy of considering things like unpainted block walls or loose awning supports as evidence of a blighted neighborhood,'' Justice Catterson wrote. 
 A spokesman for the firm said in response to the court's ruling: ''As a firm of planners and analysts, AKRF's responsibility is the collection and assessment of data in an objective and thorough manner. Our analyses help inform a public decision-making process. They are not advocacy documents.''
 The court's opinion also drew a distinction between the circumstances in Manhattanville and New London, Conn., the subject of a United States Supreme Court decision in 2005. In that case, the court upheld the taking of land, in part, because the city had devised a wide-ranging downtown revitalization plan. 
 In New York, the Appellate Division said the state and city development agencies ''were compelled to engineer a public purpose for a quintessentially private development: eradication of blight,'' after ''having committed to allow Columbia to annex Manhattanville.''
 The court found no civic purpose to this use of eminent domain and criticized state officials for arbitrarily closing the administrative record from further comment by opponents and withholding relevant public documents from the property owners.
 In the dissent, Justice Peter Tom wrote that the expansion of an educational institution qualified as a public purpose. He wrote that the property owners' arguments over blight constituted merely a ''difference of opinion'' that requires the court to defer to the state's decision to use eminent domain. Justice Tom wrote that the Court of Appeals had used similar reasoning in the Atlantic Yards case.
 Despite the recent Atlantic Yards ruling, the decision Thursday gave hope to property owners battling the use of eminent domain in Brooklyn and Queens. ''We feel like we just got thrown a lifeline,'' said Matthew Brinckerhoff, a lawyer for the property owners at Atlantic Yards. 
 A year ago, the City Council authorized the use of eminent domain to take a 62-acre area of mostly salvage yards and auto repair shops known as Willets Point in Queens. ''The tide may be turning on the use of eminent domain for private purposes,'' said Jake Bono, a spokesman for Willets Point United, a group of property owners opposed to condemnation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An appellate ruling sided with Nicholas Sprayregen, who owns a number of self-storage buildings in the Manhattanville neighborhood that the state wanted to condemn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND McCREA JONES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A30) MAP: Columbia controls 61 of the 67 buildings in the 17-acre site. (A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); APPROVALS (64%); SELF STORAGE (51%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



92 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: India Vows To Slow Pace Of Growth In Emissions

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
With international talks on climate change starting next week in Copenhagen, India staked out its early position on Thursday by announcing that it would slow the growth of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, while also leaving open the possibility of taking bolder steps if an ''equitable'' deal can be reached during the negotiations.
 The Indian initiative, presented in Parliament by the country's top environmental official, means that India has now joined the United States, China, Brazil, Indonesia and South Africa in making a domestic emissions pledge before the Copenhagen talks. Like China, its approach is focused on improving energy efficiency rather than accepting mandatory limits on emissions. 
 India is a critical player in the climate change talks, if one in a complicated position. With 1.2 billion people, it is the world's second most populous country, having both high rates of poverty and high rates of economic growth. Its population means it has a much lower per-capita emissions rate than that of the industrialized world, yet it has high levels of total emissions. It ranks fifth globally in overall emissions and is projected to rank higher as its economy grows.
 Indian leaders have refused to sign any pact that would inhibit the country's growth, but India is considered especially vulnerable to the problems attributed to global warming, like alterations in the annual monsoon season and rising sea levels. These problems are among the reasons that Indian officials, once regarded as obstructionist on the climate change issue, have sought to reposition the country as a constructive participant in the talks.
 ''India must show leadership to its own people,'' Jairam Ramesh, the environment minister, told Parliament on Thursday. ''We must show action.''
 Under the plan, India would slow the growth of emissions by reducing its levels of so-called carbon intensity -- roughly the amount of carbon dioxide emitted per unit of economic output -- by 20 to 25 percent by 2020, compared with 2005 levels. In the past, India has resisted setting such targets as a potential constraint on growth. Yet even with the target, total emissions would continue to rise, though the rate of growth would slow.
 ''We are prepared to do even more,'' Mr. Ramesh said, if a fair deal can be reached in Copenhagen. ''This is our baseline. We will do this on our own.''
 Last week, President Obama announced that the United States, the world's second largest emitter of greenhouse gases, after China, would set a provisional target to cut its total greenhouse gas emissions by roughly 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, and 83 percent by 2050. The next day, the Chinese government announced a target to slow emissions by reducing carbon intensity levels by 40 to 45 percent by 2020, compared with 2005 levels.
 Neither the Chinese nor the American plan satisfied many critics, who want both countries to commit to far bolder steps. Navroz K. Dubash, a climate change specialist in New Delhi, said the American pledge was actually a lesser commitment than it would have been obligated to meet under the Kyoto Protocol, which the United States refused to ratify. Mr. Dubash said that India had become a more constructive participant in climate change negotiations, but that the flurry of pre-Copenhagen announcements did not represent a breakthrough response to the crisis.
 ''The game seems to be that all countries pick a politically safe number,'' said Mr. Dubash, an analyst with the Center for Policy Research. ''India is now joining that game. And the game started with the United States.''
 As yet, it is unclear how to assess the significance of the Indian target. Mr. Ramesh told Parliament that the country's carbon intensity level had already dropped by 17.6 percent from 1990 to 2005 -- even as total emissions rose rapidly.
 Michael A. Levi, an energy and environment expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, questioned the value of developing countries' using carbon intensity targets as a measurement for slowing emissions growth. 
 In India's case, Mr. Levi said, the target announced Thursday was less ambitious than policies the country had previously announced. Last summer, India announced that it would introduce domestic legislation to institute fuel efficiency standards, rapidly expand the use of solar power and so-called clean coal technology, introduce green building codes and expand forest cover.
 ''The offer is actually much smaller than almost every projection of what their current policies will accomplish, whether by Western or Indian economists,'' Mr. Levi said by e-mail. 
 Politically, the climate change negotiations are a touchy subject in India. Many conservatives and leftists continue to argue that India should not be obligated to take any action, because developed countries are responsible for the bulk of the emissions currently in the atmosphere. Mr. Ramesh has come under harsh criticism for saying that India would be willing to show flexibility in negotiations. Some critics accused him of selling out Indian interests to the United States.
 But in his speech, Mr. Ramesh reiterated what he described as India's nonnegotiable positions: It would not agree to any legally binding emissions reductions and would not sign any agreement that stipulated a peak year for Indian emissions. 
 India is seeking financial and technical assistance from the West. If such assistance is forthcoming, he said, India could be willing to submit to international oversight on any emissions mitigation financed by that aid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: India, which is rapidly developing industrially, is one of the world's most populous nations and biggest greenhouse gas emitters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANISH SWARUP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); POVERTY RATES (68%); RANKINGS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



93 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Over Gay Marriage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''New York Senate Turns Back Bill on Gay Marriage'' (front page, Dec. 3):
 Dispiriting, depressing, infuriating and deeply saddening -- all these reactions are appropriate given the failure of New York State to protect my rights. 
 Anyone who mentions ''sacred unions'' in this debate is surely not talking about the same marriage I am. When I say marriage I mean the civil contract two adults enter into, sanctioned by their state government, agreeing to take on each other's obligations in return for certain benefits. 
 There's nothing sacred about that civil contract; nobody at the clerk's office will ask about the Bible, or a commitment to raise children, or any of the straw-man issues the anti-marriage crowd waves around. Over 18 and not married to anyone else? You're done, you're married. Next! 
 Clearly we need two different words -- one for the sacred unions that can be blessed in churches, mosques, synagogues or wherever else people apply noncivil criteria to marriage, and another for the civil contract. Because this debate is going nowhere as long as we're talking about two different things with one word. Keep your sacred unions in your churches, and let me have my civil marriage.
 Subjecting my civil rights to popular vote and legislative fear is a travesty of justice. On to the Supreme Court!
 Roseann Foley Henry Bayside, Queens, Dec. 3, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 As a gay person in over a 15-year committed relationship with my partner, I'm very disappointed that the New York State Senate declined to pass a bill allowing us to get married.
 Senator Tom Libous's comment -- ''I just don't think the majority care too much about it at this time because they're out of work, they want to see the state reduce spending, and they are having a hard time making ends meet'' -- is ludicrous. 
 If the majority doesn't care about legalizing gay marriage, then why not just pass it and get on to more important topics? And certainly gay marriage has nothing to do with reducing state spending, finding a job or making ends meet.
 Claude M. Gruener Albany, Dec. 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As a former New York City resident (born and raised), I'm no stranger to the culture. But the vast majority of Americans either don't want to redefine marriage as it stands now, or simply have more pressing issues to worry about.
 The good citizens in the boroughs, upstate and on Long Island sent that message through the Legislature on Wednesday. It must have been quite a shock to you that this measure could be defeated in, of all places, New York!
 Conversely, if you offer civil unions as an alternative, most people have no problem. You would have thought this lesson would have been absorbed by now.
 Don Piontek Eden Prairie, Minn., Dec. 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The New York State Senate apparently does not understand economics. I have heard about its notorious inability to pass a budget, but now it is rejecting income it could get from marriages of gay and lesbian couples. How?
 The state already recognizes marriages entered into by same-sex couples in other states or countries where they are legal. New York is surrounded on two sides by equal marriage rights jurisdictions: Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Canada. 
 The Senate is basically saying to its residents: ''Please take your money (receptions, wedding planners, hotel rooms and so on) across the border, get married there, and then come home, where we will recognize your marriage anyway.''
 The City Council of the District of Columbia has just passed an equal marriage rights bill that should take full effect by spring.
 To all you gay and lesbian New Yorkers: Come on down! Hop on an Amtrak train and get married in your nation's capital. We'll gladly accept your money. Our hotels, our reception halls, our tourist bureau, our city treasurer and our cherry blossoms await you.
 Bob Dardano Washington, Dec. 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Like all gay married citizens, I was crushed to read that yet another ''liberal'' state has fallen prey to religious dogma and heterosexism. I am particularly disappointed because New York was on our short list of places to move to when my husband soon retires.
 I was willing to leave our warm tropical home for a warm, ''welcoming'' state like yours. Apparently, I was wrong: New York is as cold as ever.
 Hans Anderson Honolulu, Dec. 3, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



94 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: When Loan Modifications Fail, It's Often Not for Lack of Trying

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Why are so few temporary mortgage modifications turning permanent?
 One reason may be the same one that a lot of bad loans were made in the first place. Borrowers can declare their income, and the banks are willing to grant temporary modifications based on those figures, without any evidence to confirm them.
 But to make a modification permanent, the banks have to see proof of income, and the borrower has to make three monthly payments of the new lower amount. In most cases, those requirements are not being met. 
 The banks, and the government, are soon going to have to decide what to do about borrowers who are making the modified payments but have not provided the documents after repeated efforts to obtain them. Should the banks just take the money and let the preliminary modification turn permanent? Or should they foreclose? 
 Those decisions will affect just how fair the program is seen to be. If the banks allow those who do not submit documents to get by without doing so, it will appear unfair to those who told the truth about their income, and paid more than they might otherwise have been required to pay. If they do not, the wave of foreclosures could devastate more neighborhoods. 
 The rules now being applied, in some cases clumsily, had a Goldilocks quality; to get a modification a borrower had to need it a lot, but not too much. If the home was ''underwater'' -- worth less than the balance of the loan securing it -- but the borrower could still afford the payments, there was to be no modification. If the borrower was in such bad straits that default was likely even with a modification, again that borrower was supposed to be turned down.
 And banks were supposed to refuse modifications if they could do better by foreclosing, whatever the effect on the borrower.
 Nearly two months ago, I spent a day at a JPMorgan Chase call center in Jacksonville, Fla., where employees had once worked the phones trying to persuade people to take out mortgages. Now the hundreds of desks were filled by people trying to arrange modifications of loans made by Chase or Washington Mutual, whose assets JPMorgan Chase acquired after that bank was closed by the government.
 One of the most frustrated Chase employees I met was Domonique Perez, whose job was to round up the documents from borrowers who had been granted temporary modifications.
 It was, she said, not going well.
 She told of one man who had filed almost all the necessary documents -- the permission slip for Chase to look at old tax returns, the pay stubs for current income -- but not the affidavit of financial hardship. She had called and called, she said, and sent letters by regular mail and by FedEx, but the man was not getting back to her.
 When I called Ms. Perez again this week, she did not recall what had happened in that case. But over all, she said, ''it's getting a little better. I'm getting a lot more files that do have all the documents.''
 It will need to get a lot better. Chase disclosed in November that nearly a quarter of trial modifications had failed because the borrower did not make even a single payment, and that nearly half had failed to make all three payments required before the modification could become permanent.
 Of those who had made all three payments, only about a quarter had submitted all the required documents. 
 Updated numbers will be released next week. ''It is getting better,'' David Lowman, the chief executive of Chase's mortgage business, told me this week. But the gains are in contrast to a very low level of compliance.
 In Washington, there are suspicions that banks simply are not trying, that they do not really want to make modifications. There is talk of shaming them into action. Tempers may run hot when bankers meet with Treasury officials on Monday and then testify before a Congressional committee on Tuesday. 
 Listening in on calls to the Jacksonville center gave me a perspective on what was going on. 
 The Chase representatives appeared eager to approve modifications, and were prepared to believe anything people said about their income. Modifications went to those who came up with the right income number, neither too high to qualify nor too low to be likely to meet the modified payments. 
 I listened to one call from a woman who sounded as if her world were collapsing. She and her husband operated a business, which seemed to be teetering near collapse, and its finances were intertwined with theirs. They were behind in payments on their mortgage.
 Under the administration's mortgage modification program, the new payment, including escrow payments for taxes and insurance, is to be 31 percent of the borrower's gross monthly income. The woman first said their income was $6,000 a month, the amount they had taken out of the business when times were good.
 That number, it turned out, was too high to qualify for a modification. When told that, the woman said she thought that for at least the next couple of months, they might be able to take only $2,000. That number was too low. She got no modification that day. Had she come up with a number somewhere in between, she might have qualified.
 The arithmetic of ''Obama mods,'' as some call them, is laid out by the government. The 31 percent number is fixed in stone, which provides some simplicity but also can be arbitrary. A family with a lot of other obligations might not be able to afford 31 percent, while one with few other debts could afford much more.
 To get the payment down to the 31 percent figure, the bank first cuts the interest rate, to as low as 2 percent, while leaving the other terms of the mortgage unchanged. For the vast majority of mortgages being modified, that is enough. If not, the term of the mortgage is stretched out to as long as 40 years. 
 Finally, if that is not enough, part of the principal can be deferred. That deferred amount is still owed, but no interest accrues and the lump sum is due at the end of the 40 years, or when the house is sold.
 Calculating those numbers is only the first step. After determining the present value of that projected series of payments, the bank then compares it with what it could get by foreclosing. If the bank would be better off by foreclosing, then there is no modification.
 One thing working in borrowers' favor is that foreclosure values are heavily discounted to take into account the delays involved in the process, the costs of maintaining a home until it can be sold and the possibility that property values will continue to fall.
 In one case I saw, the house was estimated to be worth $227,100, far less than was owed. The present value of the payments to be made under the modified loan was $159,611. modification was nonetheless approved, and the monthly payment fell to $1,004 from $1,877. 
 What made the difference was the bank's conclusion that it would get a present value of just $139,568 from a foreclosure, nearly 40 percent less than the estimated value: the low payments were worth more than the alternative.
 All these numbers are based on a lot of assumptions -- assumptions that few borrowers will be in a position to know, let alone challenge. And they have the perverse effect that modifications will be harder to get if property values improve, or even if they simply stabilize and seem likely to fall no further. That would make the foreclosure value appear higher to the banks.
 It is far from clear that some modifications being granted are really in the borrowers' interests. Some will be able to stay in homes when they could rent a comparablehouse for less, and will be so far underwater that they are unlikely to be able to sell the house for years without defaulting on the new terms. It is conceivable that this process is doing more to drag out the foreclosure crisis than to alleviate it.
 But perhaps we should not be too critical of anybody involved in the modification effort, either the administration or those trying to arrange modifications. The mess was made years ago, when bad loans were made and the ready availability of credit was driving house values to unsustainable levels. Cleaning it up is not going to be a pleasant experience for anyone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Homeowners sought help avoiding foreclosure at an event in Daly City, Calif., in October. (B1)
 The ''Save the Dream'' event in Daly City, Calif., in October. Loan modifications hinge on borrowers providing proof of income. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CALL CENTERS (61%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



95 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Sex Trafficking Arrests Are Few, Despite Laws

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Despite a highly trumpeted New York State law in 2007 that enacted tough penalties for sex or labor trafficking, very few people have been prosecuted since it went into effect, according to state statistics.
 In New York State, there have been 18 arrests and one conviction for trafficking since the law was signed by Gov. Eliot Spitzer and took effect in November 2007, according to the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services. There is one case pending in Manhattan, one in Queens and two in the Bronx. 
 The situation is not very different in New Jersey or roughly 30 other states with laws against human trafficking -- defined as using fraud or force to exploit a person for sex or labor. A federal law passed in 2000 with life prison penalties has resulted in 196 cases with convictions against 419 people, according to the United States Department of Justice. 
 The scale of those numbers contrasts starkly with the 14,500 to 17,500 people the State Department estimates are brought into the United States each year for forced labor or sex. 
 Prosecutors like Anne Milgram, the New Jersey attorney general, and Janet DiFiore, the Westchester County district attorney, blame a lack of training. 
 Police officers, they said, do not recognize signs of exploitation and do not ask the right questions at an opportune time. Eager to move a case along, the police may arrest someone for promoting prostitution rather than stiffer trafficking charges. With evidence growing stale, it can be hard to upgrade charges later on, the prosecutors said. 
 ''It's very reminiscent where we were 30 years ago on the domestic violence stuff,'' Ms. DiFiore said. ''People just don't get it yet.''
 In a typical recent case, a 22-year-old woman from Mexico said she was lured to New York by her boyfriend, who promised a waitress's job. Instead, she said she worked for his uncle in Queens as a prostitute, servicing 10 men a night across the five boroughs for $35 to $45 a trick. 
 Friendless, stranded on alien streets, frightened that the police would discover she was here illegally, she felt she had no choice, said the woman, who is pregnant. 
 ''I felt so bad, so bad,'' she said, drying tears as she spoke softly with the help of a translator. ''I didn't know what I could do. I was alone.''
 In July, the boyfriend was arrested after, she said, he beat her so brutally that she finally fled and sought out a stranger, who led her to the police. But he was charged only with a misdemeanor assault for domestic violence.
 The Mexican woman said that had she been asked, she would have told how she had been intimidated into prostitution, but the police did not press her, and she did not volunteer anything because she was afraid the boyfriend might seek revenge against her family in Mexico. Her lawyers say they are trying to get Queens prosecutors to upgrade the charges, something prosecutors say they will consider.
 The police, experts say, should be asking an immigrant prostitute whether she was forced to work the streets, whether her passport was taken away, whether she was held against her will. Training sessions on such questions have been held, including one Nov. 12 in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
 ''If you're looking at a frightened immigrant woman in a brothel, it doesn't take a Ph.D. in political science to know what you're dealing with,'' said Dorchen Leidholdt, legal director for Sanctuary for Families, a Manhattan agency for battered women that is helping the Mexican woman. She runs across many police officers who do not know that a trafficking law exists, she said. 
 But the police often are not helped by victims, who are ''taught, trained and manipulated by their exploiters not to cooperate with nor trust law enforcement,'' Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said in an e-mail message. His office said that the Mexican woman told officials only that her boyfriend had punched her; she never mentioned prostitution.
 If the right questions are asked, trafficking charges do result. In Westchester, a 21-year-old Hungarian immigrant told prosecutors she was deceived by her employer, Joseph Yannai, 65, author of a book profiling the world's top chefs, into thinking she would be coming to Pound Ridge to be his personal assistant. But according to a criminal complaint, the job required sexual favors. 
 The woman escaped and her testimony resulted in charges against Mr. Yannai of sexual abuse and two counts of labor trafficking -- one involving the Hungarian and another a Brazilian woman at the Yannai home. Under the new law, each labor trafficking count carries a prison sentence of three to seven years.
 In their questioning, prosecutors learned, according to the complaint, that Mr. Yannai had deceived the Hungarian woman about the job, had limited her phone calls and offered her no spending money -- acts that undergirded the trafficking charge. Mr. Yannai, who is awaiting trial, said the women ''were free to come and go as they wished,'' according to his lawyer, John D. Pappalardo.
 On Tuesday, a Queens jury convicted David Brown, 32, of St. Albans, of sex trafficking and kidnapping. The Queens district attorney said it was the first conviction for sex trafficking since the 2007 law was passed. 
 Prosecutors said the defendant forced a woman to work for him as a prostitute for 12 days in August 2008 by threatening to beat her and cut up her body if she left his apartment. Witnesses testified that the woman was ''sold'' to the defendant for $2,000 by an ex-girlfriend. 
 Amy Siniscalchi, program director for My Sister's Place in Westchester, a service agency working with seven trafficking victims, said ''everybody in the field thinks that the crime of human trafficking is increasing.'' 
 Jennifer Dreher, senior director of the anti-trafficking program at Safe Horizon, a domestic violence agency, said the world economic crisis had made desperate people more willing to believe employment schemes and had provided workers for massage parlors and brothels. 
 Those trafficking cases that have been brought illustrate how trafficking is different from run-of-the-mill crimes like promoting prostitution. 
 Last month, two Mexican immigrants -- a husband and wife -- were charged by federal authorities in Brooklyn with using physical violence -- including cutting the victim with a knife, beating her with a brick, punching her and breaking her finger and nose -- to force a young woman to work as a prostitute starting in April 2007.
 Benton J. Campbell, the United States attorney in Brooklyn, described the case as ''sex slavery.''
 In the Queens case involving the Mexican woman, she said the police asked her only about visible bruises. Vivian Huelgo, another lawyer for Sanctuary for Families, faults them for not digging harder.
 ''A couple of different questions -- is someone forcing you to have sex and is that sex for money -- would take you down the road to a more serious crime,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori L. Cohen, a lawyer with Sanctuary for Families in Manhattan, counsels an immigrant who was lured into prostitution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR TRAFFICKING (91%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); SEX TRAFFICKING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (86%); PROSTITUTION (86%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



96 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Treating a Community's Health Needs That Reform May Not Fix

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
James Warren is a longtime Chicago journalist and the publisher of The Chicago Reader.

 BODY:
A private security guard ambles across a health clinic's crowded waiting area toward the bathroom. A 3-year-old boy, seeing him wearing the same blue shirt as a Chicago police officer and heading the child's way, fearfully shouts, ''No! No!''
 His mother reassures him, ''He's not coming for you,'' and he calms down. It's just one example of the cultural challenges at Erie Family Health Center, 2750 West North Avenue, which make the primary tasks more complex, the accomplishments more notable. 
This is Humboldt Park, a universe away from the fancy A-list medical complexes like Northwestern Memorial Hospital, the University of Chicago Medical Center and Rush University Medical Center. There is gentrification to the east, but the West Side area has dollar stores rather than boutiques, and dingy two- and three-flats rather than upscale condos. It is primarily Latino, with a high number of H.I.V.-related deaths and high infant mortality rates. Widespread illiteracy requires that patient satisfaction forms show images of five faces, from happy to sad, to check off.
 My multiple visits underscore how committed professionals help privately run Erie provide high-quality, inexpensive services tailored to the needs of their patients: H.I.V., prenatal care, diabetes, high cholesterol, hypertension and, most intriguingly, dental care. The latter is perhaps the most significant unmet health need for American children, and one largely absent from the debate in Washington over health care reform.
 For sure, the issue is relevant at Erie. About 36 percent of its 30,000 patients at nine Chicago locations, mostly on the West and North Sides, are uninsured. If they meet the legislation's proposed income guidelines (less than twice the federal poverty level for a family of four, or roughly $44,000), the charge for a medical visit is $30. If patients return for care within 30 days, it is $10. If they can't pay, they are not turned away. A subsequent bill is sent, but Erie, which competes for federal money to help offset costs of caring for the uninsured, won't contact a collection agency.
 The two-story clinic in Humboldt Park, until the mid-1980s, housed a Walgreen's on the first floor and doctors' offices upstairs when the clientele was predominantly white and Eastern European. But the neighborhood changed, and by the '80s, gangs were rampant and the infant mortality rate was akin to that of a developing country, at 17 per 1,000 live births, said Dr. Lee Francis, the president and chief executive officer of Erie. Now the rate is down to about 8 per 1,000 live births.
 Erie is among more than 1,200 federally qualified health centers nationwide, which care for about 20 million patients at 7,000 sites. 
 The center is at the forefront of electronic record-keeping, which includes about 100 medical and financial measures, like tracking doctors' performances, doctor productivity and revenue per visit. It uses AmeriCorps volunteers to educate the community and employs 15 medical professionals, including a midwife and an H.I.V. specialist. Amy Valukas, the outreach director and a daughter of a prominent Chicago lawyer, oversees community meetings on accountability, nutrition and obesity, notably monitoring if patients are taking their medications and showing up for appointments.
 Rare for a neighborhood center, there is a state-of-the-art dental clinic with two full-time dentists. The clinic is run by a Syrian immigrant, Dr. Ghassan Souri, who was lured by Dr. Francis, an Amherst College graduate and onetime union activist at Cook County Hospital. 
 The Medicaid reimbursement rate for private dentists in Illinois is so low that most don't deal with Medicaid patients. Erie gets more -- an average of $93 per patient from the state because of the heavy load of Medicaid patients; still, its cost is $130. It thus loses money but forges on, knowing bad teeth can lead to preterm labor, low birth weight and diabetes, among other ills.
 Dr. Souri juggles work here with a suburban practice and routinely sees 2- and 3-year-olds with as many as 20 cavities. On a day I visited, he dealt with a boy, 6, who needed four fillings because he drank too much soda, and a girl, 7, who had 10 cavities.
 Ultimately, Erie helps you understand the limits of the health care measures that Congress is wrangling over. There may be money for bricks-and-mortar expansion of such clinics and to encourage training of health professionals, but even with insurance, the economic stresses that contribute to poor health remain. Reform won't change poverty, inadequate housing or a lack of education. Insurance won't prompt Dr. Souri's patients, one-third of whom miss appointments, to show up on time.
 But clinics like this seem poised to be part of the overall solution. Even if a small child freaks out at the sight of a powder-blue shirt, there is reason to check the smiley face at the reception desk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); FAMILY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (67%); DIABETES (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (65%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (52%); HYPERTENSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



97 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Makes It Official: NBC Will Go to Comcast

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Bill Carter and Brian Stelter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After nearly nine months of negotiations, Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator, announced an agreement on Thursday to acquire NBC Universal from the General Electric Company. 
 The deal valued NBC Universal at about $30 billion.
 The agreement will create a joint venture, with Comcast owning 51 percent and G.E. owning 49 percent. Comcast will contribute to the joint venture its stable of cable channels, which includes Versus, the Golf Channel and E Entertainment, worth about $7.25 billion, and will pay G.E. about $6.5 billion in cash, for a total of $13.75 billion. For now, the network will remain NBC Universal, but ultimately Comcast could decide to change the name.
 Almost immediately, the transaction reshapes the nation's entertainment industry, giving a cable provider a huge portfolio of new content, even as it raises the sector's anxieties about the future. 
 In a joint statement announcing the agreement, Brian L. Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast, said the deal was ''a perfect fit for Comcast and will allow us to become a leader in the development and distribution of multiplatform 'anytime, anywhere' media that American consumers are demanding.'' The deal's genesis lies in frequent flirtations over the last several years between Comcast and General Electric, although serious talks began in March. For Comcast, the purchase is the realization of its long-held ambition to be a major producer of television shows and movies.
 News of the negotiations broke in late September, and in the ensuing weeks G.E. worked to resolve details with Comcast, while simultaneously negotiating to buy out a 20 percent stake in NBC Universal held by Vivendi, the French telecommunications conglomerate. It was this last part that proved difficult. G.E. and Comcast's part of the transaction has essentially been complete for weeks, but the final step was held up by the negotiations between G.E. and Vivendi. Vivendi will receive about $5.8 billion for its stake.
 Jeff Zucker, the current head of NBC Universal, will stay on as chief executive and report to the chief operating officer of Comcast, Steve Burke. In a statement released by the companies Thursday morning, Mr. Zucker called the deal the ''start of a new era'' for NBC.
 The deal could take up to 18 months to pass regulatory muster. Although Comcast is based in Philadelphia, NBC's headquarters will remain in New York, the joint release said. 
 Most of NBC's value is in its lucrative cable channels -- USA, Bravo, SyFy, CNBC and MSNBC. These networks, along with the channels that Comcast will contribute to the joint venture, will compose 82 percent of the company's cash flow. The NBC network and Universal Studios will account for only a small portion of the joint venture's cash flow.
 In some respects, G.E.'s decision to sell reflects a desire to exit a business that never quite meshed with its industrial side. ''It's something I always thought about,'' said Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive, in an interview. ''In some ways my thinking gets shaped by the totality of G.E.''
 He said that the economic recession also affected his thinking, adding, ''you never have an epiphany.''
 NBC has been mired in fourth place among the major broadcast networks, and the economics of the broadcast television business has deteriorated in recent years amid declining overall ratings and a decline in advertising. By contrast, cable channels have continued to thrive because they rely on a steady stream of subscriber fees from cable companies like Comcast.
 Mr. Roberts, the Comcast chief executive, failed in 2004 with a hostile takeover bid for the Walt Disney Company. Since then, the company has taken a less ambitious approach to content, buying a stake in MGM and building up smaller cable channels and regional sports networks. On Thursday, Mr. Roberts said, ''I believe our company is strategically complete.''
 Shortly after news of the deal leaked in September, G.E. and Comcast signed a standstill agreement, which effectively blocked other bidders from entering the fray. Previously, G.E. had sought to entice Time Warner. More recently Rupert Murdoch, who controls the News Corporation, considered making an offer for NBC Universal.
 On Capitol Hill, a number of lawmakers said they would hold hearings to examine the deal in detail. Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin and the chairman of the Senate Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights Subcommittee, said he would convene a hearing about the deal ''so that consumers can get a better sense of how this deal could affect their access to diverse programming and information, especially as they more often look to the Internet for such services.''
 Michael J. Copps, a commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission who regularly opposes media consolidation, said in a statement that ''every citizen has a stake here,'' given the size of the combined entity. ''The lodestar for this review must be the public interest,'' he said.
 Foreseeing a long regulatory fight, Comcast published a letter on Thursday that outlined commitments to enrich and extend programming for children and minority groups. It also said policies would remain in place to ensure independence for NBC's news division.
 Asked about the NBC broadcast network and its affiliate structure, Mr. Roberts said in an interview, ''We're committed to free, over-the-air broadcast television continuing.'' But he and other Comcast executives acknowledged that broadcasters faced continuing threats to their business model.
 Mr. Zucker reassured employees of NBC Universal that given the regulatory hurdles ahead, ''for now, it remains business as usual.''
 Mr. Immelt said G.E. may consult its future partners on occasion over certain deals. G.E. will still be managing the company when certain significant television rights deals come open for bid within the next year. Under G.E., NBC has become the exclusive rights holder to every summer Olympics since 1988 and every winter Olympics since 2002.
 Referring to the coming games in Vancouver and London, which NBC already owns the rights to, Mr. Zucker said, ''We're excited for next year and 2012,'' and stressed the company would remain in the bidding for the games in 2014 and 2016.
 Mindful of past deals that failed on their promise of synergies, Comcast made sure to point out that the financial projections underlying the deal took no account of any potential cost savings from combining the various assets. 
 For the thousands of employees of both companies, that is good news. Comcast has about 100,000 employees, while NBC Universal employs about 30,000. Mr. Burke, the Comcast executive who will oversee the joint venture, said, ''99.9 percent of those employees are in businesses that don't overlap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian L. Roberts, left, Comcast's chairman and chief executive, with Stephen B. Burke, the company's chief operating officer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COMCAST, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CASH FLOW (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%); COMCAST CORP (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (92%); VIVENDI (85%); E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (57%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (92%); GEC (LSE) (92%); GE (SWX) (92%); GE (NYSE) (92%); VIV (PAR) (85%); VIV (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



98 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Will the Dragon Swat Down the Eagle?

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
WHEN CHINA RULES THE WORLD 
 The End of the Western World and the Birth of a New Global Order 
 By Martin Jacques 
 Illustrated. 550 pages. The Penguin Press. $29.95. 
 The title of Martin Jacques's new book, ''When China Rules the World: The End of the Western World and the Birth of a New Global Order'' has a willfully alarmist ring to it, signaling the rise of China as the new global superpower and the coming fall of America and the rest of the West. Mr. Jacques, a columnist for The Guardian of London, argues that ''we stand on the eve of a different kind of world,'' and that common assumptions in the West -- China will become increasingly like us, and the international system ''will remain broadly as it now is with China acquiescing in the status quo'' -- are symptoms of Americans' state of denial. 
 China's rapid growth and sheer size, Mr. Jacques contends, mean that it ''will exercise a gravitational pull and also have a centrifugal impact on the rest of the world.'' As countries become hegemonic powers, ''they seek to shape the world in light of their own values and priorities,'' he writes. ''It is banal, therefore, to believe that China's impact on the world will be mainly and overwhelmingly economic: on the contrary, its political and cultural effect is likely to be even greater.'' He asserts that China's ''impact on the world will be as great as that of the United States over the last century, probably far greater.'' 
 In the course of making these provocative arguments Mr. Jacques provides the reader with a fascinating account of how he thinks China's Confucian heritage and its sense of manifest destiny could shape its return to the center of the world stage and how its appetite for turbocharged urban change coexists with a sense of the past, given that half its population still lives in the countryside. He also makes some interesting points about how the credit crisis and banking meltdown of 2008 underscored ''that the U.S. had been living well beyond its means -- and relying on Chinese credit in order to do so'' as well as ''the fallibility of American prosperity and the shift in the centre of economic gravity from the United States to China.'' 
 Mr. Jacques has a tendency to cherry-pick information however. While he cites a Goldman Sachs report that projects that China will have the largest economy in the world by 2050 (followed by a closely matched America and India some way behind), he fails to give serious consideration to the many problems that might hamstring China's explosive growth, including corruption, environmental damage, internal political tensions and an authoritarian regime (which not only limits citizens' freedom but may also circumscribe technological innovation and create unsustainable expectations of rapid modernization in a country where there is still persistent poverty). Such problems have been explored in recent books like Will Hutton's ''Writing on the Wall: Why We Must Embrace China as a Partner or Face It as an Enemy,'' Philip P. Pan's ''Out of Mao's Shadow'' and James Kynge's ''China Shakes the World,'' and yet Mr. Jacques skims over these issues lightly and dismissively.
 At the same time he seriously plays down the horrors of Mao's tyrannical rule, writing that ''he remains, even today, a venerated figure in the eyes of many Chinese, even more than Deng Xiaoping'' and that the Communist Party ''succeeded in restoring its legitimacy amongst the people'' and fostered ''extremely rapid economic growth,'' ''despite the calamities of the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution.'' In addition he diminishes the importance of the pro-democracy Tiananmen demonstrations and dissident sympathies, arguing that there is an ''apolitical tradition'' in China and that ''the Confucian ethos that informed and shaped it for some two millennia did not require the state to be accountable to the people.'' 
 For many years, Mr. Jacques says, China ''needed the U.S. to a far greater extent than the U.S. needed China. The United States possessed the world's largest market and was the gatekeeper to an international system the design and operation of which it was overwhelmingly responsible for.'' Cast ''in the role of supplicant,'' China played nice, living ''according to the terms set by others'' and avoiding unnecessary conflicts to focus on its own economic growth. But as China ''emerges as the most powerful country in the world,'' he goes on, it will eventually be in ''a position to set its own terms and conditions,'' acting according to its own ''history and instincts.'' 
 So how exactly would China behave as the world's most powerful nation? Mr. Jacques is somewhat fuzzy on this question, suggesting that the country's actions would most likely be informed by its sense of itself as an ancient civilization, rightfully returned to its place at the center of the world, by its grievances over the ''century of humiliation'' it suffered at the hands of foreign powers beginning in the middle of the 19th century, and by its ''hierarchical view of the world'' and ''sense of cultural self-confidence and superiority.'' 
 He suggests that China will emerge as the ''regional leader'' of East Asia, displacing the United States there, and that it will also gain influence in Africa and Latin America. China will offer itself, he asserts, as both a developed and developing nation, as a sort of role model for progress, while also posing an alternative to the United States, which thanks to the unilateralist policies of George W. Bush lost considerable prestige and influence abroad. 
 Throughout much of this volume Mr. Jacques makes bold predictions and uses strong, even melodramatic, language, writing that ''China will become the world's leading power'' and ''Beijing will emerge as the global capital,'' and that the United States ''finds itself on the eve of a psychological, emotional and existential crisis'' as it enters ''a protracted period of economic, political and military trauma.'' 
 In the very last pages, however, he abruptly begins to soft-pedal his thesis with qualified and hedged assessments. He writes that ''for the next twenty years or so, as China continues its modernization, it will remain an essentially status-quo power,'' and that the decline of the Western world will not ''be replaced in any simplistic fashion by a Sinocentric world.'' 
 ''The rise of competing modernities heralds a quite new world in which no hemisphere or country will have the same kind of prestige, legitimacy or overwhelming force that the West has enjoyed over the last two centuries,'' he concludes. ''Instead different countries and cultures will compete for legitimacy and influence.'' The new world, he goes on, ''at least for the next century, will not be Chinese in the way that the previous one was Western. We are entering an era of competing modernity, albeit one in which China will increasingly be in the ascendant and eventually perhaps dominant.'' It's a conclusion that's dramatically less dramatic than the histrionic title of his book suggests.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martin Jacques (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE GUARDIAN)(C41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%)

TITLE: When China Rules the World (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



99 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Debt Alarm Ringing? Hit Snooze Button

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
This is about owing money, lots of it, with every single New Yorker on the hook. It's almost enough to keep a guy up at night pacing the floor over how he's going to pay it back. An old joke comes to mind, but let's hold off.
 What prompts all this is a report from the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr. His office announced this week that you, you and, yes, you, too, are each in debt to the tune of $7,760 even if you've never borrowed a penny on your own. 
 That figure is your share of the city's debt burden, which has steadily climbed. As of June 30, the end of the last fiscal year, it stood at a nosebleed-inducing $64.8 billion. Even the mayor can't cover it, that's how much it is. With admirable understatement, the comptroller's report observed that the city's debt load is ''threatening to become unaffordable.'' Yes, it would seem so.
 But that isn't all that you owe, not by a long shot. The office of the New York State comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, puts the state's debt at $57 billion, nearly all of it incurred by public authorities bearing initials that most people find indecipherable.
 It works out to $2,925 for each state resident, aides to Mr. DiNapoli say. They don't sound terribly happy about it. Their office's Web site suggests that the politicians, in good times as well as bad, have been far too keen on borrowing and leaving it up to someone else -- probably your grandchildren or even your grandchildren's grandchildren -- to pay the freight. Rarely are voters asked what they think.
 ''It's like somebody took your credit card, ran it up and then said, 'Here you go, here's your bill,' '' said Dennis Tompkins, a spokesman for Mr. DiNapoli. ''You never had a chance to say: 'I like this. I don't like that.' ''
 As if that were not enough, you've got a back-bending federal burden as well.
 For the past two decades, the Durst Organization has maintained its National Debt Clock, an electronic billboard that has been affixed in recent years to the side of a building on 44th Street, just west of Avenue of the Americas. As of late Thursday morning, it said the national debt exceeded $12 trillion. That is 12 followed by 12 zeroes. Numbers on the sign spin faster than a politician in full campaign mode. In the time it will take most of you to read this paragraph, the debt will have grown by roughly $150,000. (This is not an argument for you to stop reading.)
 Your family's share, the clock said near noon on Thursday, came to $101,998. That family is defined as having three members, a Durst spokesman said.
 Let's see. If we divide $101,998 by three, each person's portion of the federal debt is a few pennies shy of $34,000. Add to that the state's per-capita figure of $2,925 and the city's $7,760, and you get -- hang on a sec -- $44,685. That is almost the average annual wage of a worker in New York State, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 IS it time now to start pacing the floor?
 Yes and no.
 Maybe yes, because that $7,760 per-person burden for municipal debt compares with $2,951 in 1990. The increase has far outpaced the rate of inflation. Also, the per-capita figure is much higher in New York than in other major cities.
 On the other hand, maybe no. While warning about the mounting debt, the comptroller's report says that the city has many billions to go before it hits its legal limit on borrowing. Then, too, much of the borrowed money has gone for infrastructure maintenance -- sewers, roads, school buildings -- to undo long neglect that went hand in hand with the fiscal crisis of the 1970s.
 ''Obviously, not maintaining the infrastructure would have very negative consequences,'' said Marcia Van Wagner, a deputy city comptroller. Older cities in general ''tend to have higher debt,'' Ms. Van Wagner said, if only because they have more stuff that needs fixing.
 ''I don't think you should stay up at night worrying about your $7,760,'' she said.
 Which brings us to that joke, about a fellow who's pacing the floor in the middle of the night. When his wife asks him what's wrong, he says, ''I owe Williams $20,000. It's due in the morning and I don't have it. I'm worried to death.'' 
 His wife replies, ''You don't have it? So come back to bed. Let Williams worry.''
 That's how it has been for years in New York. We're happy to take the money and let Williams do the pacing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



100 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Shares Break Winning Streak Ahead of Jobs Report

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Shares declined on Thursday, breaking a three-day winning streak for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index after an unexpected contraction in service industries raised concern about the economic recovery a day before the government's November jobs report.
 Financial institutions led the retreat in the S.& P. 500 as Bank of America prepared to sell more than $18 billion in equity to repay government bailout funds. American Express lost 5.3 percent after the Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing businesses missed the median economist estimate. Abercrombie & Fitch led retailers lower after reporting a decrease in November sales. 
 The S.& P. 500 fell 9.32 points, or 0.84 percent, to 1,099.92. The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 86.53 points, or 0.83 percent, to 10,366.15, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 11.89 points, or 0.54 percent, to 2,173.14.
 ''It's a fragile recovery,'' said Mirko Mikelic, who helps manage $19 billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Mich. ''All the jobs we lost at the beginning of this recession may not be recovered till 2012, 2013, so it's going to be longer versus in the past.''
 Stocks rose at the start of trading after Bank of America, the nation's biggest lender, agreed to repay $45 billion to the government. The S.& P. 500 also advanced after the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest level in more than a year.
 Economists project the jobless rate will remain at a 26-year high of 10.2 percent in the Labor Department's report Friday, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
 Banks, brokerage firms and the rest of the financial industry in the S.& P. 500 lost 2.1 percent as a group, the most among 10 groups. Citigroup fell 1.2 percent, to $4.05. Goldman Sachs slumped 1.4 percent, to $164.30.
 Principal Financial, the life insurer, fell 13 percent, to $22.52 after its profit forecast fell short of analysts' estimates. 
 Bank of America added 0.7 percent, to $15.76. Its plan to repurchase the stake sold to the Troubled Asset Relief Program could improve investor confidence in the lender's health and its chances of finding a new chief executive.
 ''The less involvement financial institutions have with governments the better,'' said John Haynes, a United States equity strategist at Rensburg Sheppards in London. ''Clearly Bank of America shareholders would agree.''
 American Express, the biggest credit card issuer by purchases, fell 5.3 percent, to $38.87 for the largest drop in the Dow average.
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing businesses that make up almost 90 percent of the economy fell to 48.7, from 50.6 in October. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The median economist estimate was 51.5.
 Retailers including Abercrombie & Fitch and Macy's fell after reporting a decline in business last month as discounts failed to persuade shoppers to increase their spending on holiday gifts.
 Abercrombie & Fitch lost 9.3 percent, to $36.21. Macy's slumped 3 percent, to $15.81. The S.& P. Retailing Index declined 1.2 percent.
 Comcast, the cable television operator, gained 6.5 percent, to $15.91. The cable company agreed to form a $37 billion joint venture combining General Electric's NBC Universal with its own media assets, strengthening a push into programming.
 Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 18/32, to 99 23/32, and the yield rose to 3.38 percent from 3.31 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); ANF (NYSE) (83%); AFT (FRA) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



101 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Reform Or Else

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Health care reform hangs in the balance. Its fate rests with a handful of ''centrist'' senators -- senators who claim to be mainly worried about whether the proposed legislation is fiscally responsible.
 But if they're really concerned with fiscal responsibility, they shouldn't be worried about what would happen if health reform passes. They should, instead, be worried about what would happen if it doesn't pass. For America can't get control of its budget without controlling health care costs -- and this is our last, best chance to deal with these costs in a rational way. 
 Some background: Long-term fiscal projections for the United States paint a grim picture. Unless there are major policy changes, expenditure will consistently grow faster than revenue, eventually leading to a debt crisis. 
 What's behind these projections? An aging population, which will raise the cost of Social Security, is part of the story. But the main driver of future deficits is the ever-rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid. If health care costs rise in the future as they have in the past, fiscal catastrophe awaits.
 You might think, given this picture, that extending coverage to those who would otherwise be uninsured would exacerbate the problem. But you'd be wrong, for two reasons.
 First, the uninsured in America are, on average, relatively young and healthy; covering them wouldn't raise overall health care costs very much.
 Second, the proposed health care reform links the expansion of coverage to serious cost-control measures for Medicare. Think of it as a grand bargain: coverage for (almost) everyone, tied to an effort to ensure that health care dollars are well spent.
 Are we talking about real savings, or just window dressing? Well, the health care economists I respect are seriously impressed by the cost-control measures in the Senate bill, which include efforts to improve incentives for cost-effective care, the use of medical research to guide doctors toward treatments that actually work, and more. This is ''the best effort anyone has made,'' says Jonathan Gruber of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A letter signed by 23 prominent health care experts -- including Mark McClellan, who headed Medicare under the Bush administration -- declares that the bill's cost-control measures ''will reduce long-term deficits.''
 The fact that we're seeing the first really serious attempt to control health care costs as part of a bill that tries to cover the uninsured seems to confirm what would-be reformers have been saying for years: The path to cost control runs through universality. We can only tackle out-of-control costs as part of a deal that also provides Americans with the security of guaranteed health care.
 That observation in itself should make anyone concerned with fiscal responsibility support this reform. Over the next decade, the Congressional Budget Office has concluded, the proposed legislation would reduce, not increase, the budget deficit. And by giving us a chance, finally, to rein in the ever-growing spending of Medicare, it would greatly improve our long-run fiscal prospects.
 But there's another reason failure to pass reform would be devastating -- namely, the nature of the opposition.
 The Republican campaign against health care reform has rested in part on the traditional arguments, arguments that go back to the days when Ronald Reagan was trying to scare Americans into opposing Medicare -- denunciations of ''socialized medicine,'' claims that universal health coverage is the road to tyranny, etc. 
 But in the closing rounds of the health care fight, the G.O.P. has focused more and more on an effort to demonize cost-control efforts. The Senate bill would impose ''draconian cuts'' on Medicare, says Senator John McCain, who proposed much deeper cuts just last year as part of his presidential campaign. ''If you're a senior and you're on Medicare, you better be afraid of this bill,'' says Senator Tom Coburn.
 If these tactics work, and health reform fails, think of the message this would convey: It would signal that any effort to deal with the biggest budget problem we face will be successfully played by political opponents as an attack on older Americans. It would be a long time before anyone was willing to take on the challenge again; remember that after the failure of the Clinton effort, it was 16 years before the next try at health reform.
 That's why anyone who is truly concerned about fiscal policy should be anxious to see health reform succeed. If it fails, the demagogues will have won, and we probably won't deal with our biggest fiscal problem until we're forced into action by a nasty debt crisis.
 So to the centrists still sitting on the fence over health reform: If you care about fiscal responsibility, you better be afraid of what will happen if reform fails. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); AGING TRENDS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); AGING (68%); MEDICAID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



102 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: 3rd-Quarter Productivity Not as Strong as First Reported

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Worker productivity in the United States was less robust than previously thought in the third quarter as workers earned more money and output rose at a slower pace, the government reported on Thursday. 
 The Labor Department said that nonfarm productivity rose at an annual rate of 8.1 percent, still the quickest rate since the third quarter of 2003, rather than the 9.5 percent rate reported last month.
 Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast that growth in third-quarter productivity would be revised down to 8.5 percent. Productivity, which measures hourly output per worker, grew at a 6.9 percent rate in the second quarter.
 The nation's services sector, meanwhile, unexpectedly contracted in November, with an index measuring activity falling to its lowest reading since July, according to an industry report released on Thursday.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its services index shrank to 48.7 in November from 50.6 in October. That was slightly below the 51.5 median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Reuters.
 A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector.
 In the productivity report, total nonfarm output in the third quarter grew at a 2.9 percent rate, rather than the 4 percent previously estimated, the department said. Output dropped at a 1.1 percent rate in the previous period. Aggressive cost-cutting has pushed productivity sharply higher. 
 The number of hours worked fell at a 4.8 percent rate in the third quarter, instead of the 5 percent pace estimated last month, the department said.
 Unit labor costs, a gauge of inflation and profit pressures closely watched by the Federal Reserve, fell 2.5 percent, less than the 5.2 percent previously estimated. Unit labor costs were flat in the second quarter. 
 Compensation per hour rose at a rate of 5.4 percent pace, ahead of the previous estimate of 3.8 percent, and, adjusted for inflation, was up 1.8 percent. 
 In related economic news, the number of workers filing new applications for jobless insurance unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest level in more than 14 months, government data showed on Thursday, pointing to a moderation in the rate of job losses.
 Initial claims for state unemployment benefits slipped 5,000, to a seasonally adjusted 457,000 in the week ended Nov. 28, from a downwardly revised 462,000 in the previous week, the Labor Department said. Claims have dropped for five consecutive weeks.
 The report covers the Thanksgiving holiday, and a Labor Department economist said both actual and seasonally adjusted claims were down.
 Applications have dropped significantly from March's high levels, but are still above the 400,000 mark that analysts say would signal payroll growth.
 The four-week moving average for new claims fell 14,250, to 481,250, last week, the lowest level since November last year and the 13th consecutive decline. The four-week moving average is considered a better gauge of underlying trends as it irons out week-to-week volatility.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 U.S. Productivity: Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (95%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



103 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: In Marin County, a Public Fight Over Private Control of Sewage

BYLINE: By SUSAN SWARD

 BODY:
Pam Welsh was a retired risk management analyst immersed in her family's life when she learned this year that her Marin County bedroom community was considering a contract to have the world's largest water company operate the local sewage plant.
 Mrs. Welsh, 59, soon became a woman obsessed. She was certain the proposal would mean higher rates and poorer service for those under the jurisdiction of the Novato Sanitary District as the company, Veolia Water North America, sought to increase profits.
 Her campaign, which included a petition drive, was met with a strong counterattack by the Novato Sanitary District board and others who prefer private-sector management. It is a timely subject of debate in the Bay Area, where communities have been wrestling with the broader question of whether private-public partnerships in municipal services make financial and environmental sense during tough economic times. 
 Nationwide, cities spend almost $70 billion a year on their water and sewage systems. Municipal systems provide for the needs of about 80 percent of those served by sewers, industry sources say. Local supporters of Veolia's five-year, $15 million contract with Novato say it will save ratepayers $7.2 million. 
 But money is just one metric for these systems, which are regulated under the federal Clean Water Act. That law requires them to keep watersheds and beaches free of pollution -- something Novato has failed to do. 
 In May, the Novato agency's offices were raided by investigators with the Environmental Protection Agency, who hauled away boxes of documents. The raid came after the E.P.A. received a tip that in 2007, long before Veolia was in the picture, the district purposefully discharged sewage into San Francisco Bay while preparing to build a $90 million treatment plant. 
 In addition, 57 spills -- totaling more than 440,000 gallons of untreated sewage -- earned Novato's sanitary district the No. 19 spot in a new statewide report ranking collection systems by the amount of sewage spilled. It is among seven local agencies in the top 20 for the period from January 2007 through October 2009.
 At the time of the E.P.A. raid, the district was running the system. But Veolia, a subsidiary of Veolia Environnement, based in Paris, has had environmental problems elsewhere in the region. In a 2005 Richmond case, the nonprofit environmental organization Baykeeper and the West County Toxics Coalition sued the company, accusing it of discharging sewage into the bay. Veolia and Richmond, also a defendant, settled the case, agreeing to major upgrades. 
 In Novato, the district board voted unanimously in September to have Veolia operate its sewage treatment plant. 
 But Mrs. Welsh and her allies in the Alliance of Concerned Citizens of Novato helped circulate a petition to have the contract put on the ballot next June. For now, instead of being the operator, the company will be a consultant to district managers until voters decide if they want the deal.
 Novato's system is not big. It processes 1.79 billion gallons each year, compared with 300 billion gallons treated throughout the Bay Area. Yet because three other systems -- Fairfield-Suisun and Petaluma in the Bay Area and Stockton in the Central Valley -- recently severed ties with private companies, people are closely watching this fight to see if the trend continues. 
 Mrs. Welsh said corporations were ''there to make money for shareholders, and I don't believe it's in the community's interest to pay for profit for waste water or drinking water.''
 Mike Di Giorgio, president of the Novato board, said he was not bothered by Veolia's potential profits because he was confident the contract would save ratepayers significant money.
 The arguments on both sides are familiar to experts. A 2002 report by the Pacific Institute, based in Oakland, noted that supporters of privatization usually argue that the private sector will deliver more or better services, while opponents say it could lead to higher costs, the potential for lost jobs or benefits and reduced local control.
 ''The devil is in the details, and the details are in the contracts,'' said Peter Gleick, the institute's president. ''We've seen over and over where small municipalities rarely have the power or ability to negotiate good contracts.'' 
 Those details include how rates are adjusted and how profits are distributed, Mr. Gleick said.
 In 2002, the National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, issued a report noting that any community needed to monitor and enforce contract provisions. ''No matter how well a privatization arrangement is crafted,'' it said, the public agency's interests seldom matched those of the contractor.
 James Good, vice president of Veolia Water North America in California, where the company has a dozen other wastewater contracts, defended the company's record.
 ''We have three goals: to run a safe operation, run an operation complying with environmental regulations and have good client relations,'' Mr. Good said. ''Our renewal rate is 93 percent, and you wouldn't get renewed if you snow one over on clients, because they would figure it out.''
 Environmental groups disagree. 
 ''Veolia has a long record fraught with environmental problems, negligence and expensive service,'' said Adam Scow, the California deputy director of the nonprofit Food and Water Watch. Veolia has had problems with spills in other communities around the country, Mr. Scow added. 
 In her campaign, Mrs. Welsh went to sanitary district meetings and once became so angry that she hurled insults she said she later regretted. She said she fumed when the board did not make the contract public until the week before the vote. 
 Last month, Mrs. Welsh helped her husband, Dennis, win election to the sanitary district's five-member board.
 Another contract opponent is David Keller, a former Petaluma City Council member who represented that city in sewage privatization negotiations and now consults for the anti-Veolia forces. Big companies, Mr. Keller said, like ''to privatize in small communities because they know those communities won't be able to protect the ratepayer.'' 
 ''Veolia,'' he added, ''has offices full of people whose job it is to maximize profits.''
 Mr. Di Giorgio, a real estate agent and former Novato mayor, is now president of the sanitary board, which retains rate-setting authority in its deal with Veolia. He said the board ''wrote a contract to correct for pitfalls in other agencies' contracts'' and added, ''Veolia said it was the toughest one they ever signed.'' 
 For its part, Veolia said it had spent $32,000 backing candidates supporting the contract in the recent board election; two won. On the other side, Food and Water Watch is advising the contract opponents, and the California Healthy Communities Network, a nonprofit organization, said it had contributed almost $40,000 for the campaign.
 Mr. Gleick, of the Pacific Institute, said that if Veolia were to retain the Novato contract and do a good job, such success could encourage others to consider a similar path. If it fails, he said, ''that makes it harder for private water companies to break into the U.S. market.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction at the Novato Sanitary District plant. The district's board sought a privatization deal, but residents pushed back. (A29A)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A29B) CHART: Top Spillers: Of the 20 California agencies discharging the most from sewer pipes from January 2007 through October 2009, seven were in the San Francisco Bay Area. Those agencies are highlighted below. (Source: State Water Resources Control Board) (A29A)
 MAP: Pam Welsh has helped lead the Alliance of Concerned Citizens of Novato in the fight against privatization. (A29B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (89%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); JURISDICTION (76%); PETITIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); RANKINGS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); WATER QUALITY (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); BALLOTS (60%)

COMPANY: VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT SA (86%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: VIE (PAR) (86%); VE (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (86%); NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (86%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



104 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: A Personal Loss for a Hofstra Alumnus

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
They had no idea what was about to fall on their heads. On Oct. 10, my old classmates came back for the 50th reunion of the undefeated 1959 football team from Hofstra University.
 Homecoming Day, it was called. 
 ''Hofstra's been a second home to me,'' Steve Miller, a tackle on that team, said Thursday. ''Now I feel like it's been burned down.''
 Miller was absorbing a worse shot than anything he ever took on the field. Our alma mater has abolished football, with no warning, in the name of fiscal prudence. 
 I take it personally because they are my friends. As a student aide to the athletic department, I announced home games, called in the results to the papers, and I also took classes with the players. They were student-athletes in the best sense of the word. 
 Now our alma mater has terminated the program that eventually sent John Schmitt and Wayne Chrebet and Marques Colston to the National Football League. 
 ''Football is such an important part of college,'' said Robert Gutkowski, once the president of Madison Square Garden, now a partner in Innovative Strategies Management. He went to games as a child and recalls watching Fran Lynch, a running back who played nine years for the Denver Broncos. As a student in the late '60s, Gutkowski was one of those rare Hofstronians who actually went to games. 
 ''Such an indictment of the times,'' Gutkowski said with a sigh, referring to the harsh economy.
 Hofstra has guaranteed scholarships to the current players, promised easy passage to other football schools, but has effectively banished what Howdy Myers, the withdrawn coach with the flamboyant offensive soul, helped build.
 ''I feel like a good friend of mine has passed away,'' said Lou DiBlasi, who was tossed out of school, grew up in the Marines, came back to play on that 1959 team, and later coached in high school. 
 Hofstra will not produce any more football players like DiBlasi or Miller or George Dempster, the co-captain, who later became the chairman of the board of trustees and helped save the school when it was going under in the '70s. George's name is now engraved on the communications building: Dempster Hall. 
 ''The best athlete on the team,'' recalled Mike Manzer, an end on the defensive platoon in that year of limited substitution. George even moved from guard to quarterback during a plague of injuries in 1958. 
 A few days before the final game in 1959, Dempster had an emergency appendectomy. After his teammates won, the seniors nailed their jocks to a board, in the old tradition of ''hanging 'em up,'' and then carried the board into George's hospital room. 
 They tell that story and they talk about departed teammates, including Ted Poliskin, Frank Mauro and Bernie Larkin, all of whom died recently. 
 They remembered how only a few thousand fans would come out on Saturdays. It was a commuter school back then, but the jocks and journalists and drama majors like Francis Coppola and Lainie Kazan all rented rooms around campus -- the inner core, we felt. 
 In that undefeated season, Bob Spiotta was a tackle in the afternoon and Stanley Kowalski in the evening, and later he caught up with Coppola out west and helped found Zoetrope. Hofstra people did all right. 
 (There was also a guy named Madoff in our class but he doesn't show up in the yearbook my wife and I co-edited. Nobody heard of the schnook back then.) 
 The football team is all over our yearbook. Howdy's genius. Linemen like Chet O'Neill and Tim Gannon. Tommy MacDonald, the unsung quarterback. And Doug Lewis, the only black guy on the team, who arrived as a quarterback, but, it being the late '50s, Howdy converted him to a wide receiver, a terrific one. 
 They won all nine games. They made Hofstra proud. Over the decades Hofstra downsized football, then upgraded it, under Dempster and Dr. James M. Shuart, two football linemen who became board chairman and president of the university, respectively. When Stuart Rabinowitz took over in 2000, he did not seem to like football all that much, particularly its deficits. 
 Hofstra made mistakes. With the wonderful Dutch heritage, who told the school to change its nickname from Flying Dutchmen to the Pride? I detect a Babe Ruth hex in there somewhere. It blundered into the Colonial Athletic Association, which mandated expensive trips up and down the East Coast. It built dormitories but could never induce students to attend football games. 
 I'm no apologist for football. The other day I advised Notre Dame to downsize. Hofstra could have done that. Instead, it dumped football, leaving my classmates wondering if they will ever be in touch with the university again.
 ''I've given them some money in the past,'' Lou DiBlasi said. ''Right now, my inclination is, hell, no.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); DENVER BRONCOS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (54%) COLORADO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



105 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Is Said to Sell Assets To Its Chinese Partner

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
General Motors is selling half of its India operations and a small stake in its China business to its main joint-venture partner in China, people with knowledge of the transaction said on Thursday, the latest sign of a shift in wealth and industrial power from American corporate giants to rising Asian powers.
 G.M.'s main partner in China, the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, known as S.A.I.C., suspended trading in its shares on the Shanghai stock market on Thursday pending a major announcement, but declined to release details. G.M. said in a statement that it was routinely in discussions with Shanghai Automotive on various issues, but also did not disclose any details. 
 G.M.'s international operations have been in a quiet but intense search for cash after a majority-owned South Korean subsidiary, Daewoo, lost $2 billion last year on a bad bet on financial derivatives based on the Korean won and then exhausted its remaining credit during the recent global economic downturn. 
 G.M.'s international operations could not raise money for the Daewoo bailout from G.M.'s American operations because of legal restrictions on financial assistance extended by the United States government during G.M.'s bankruptcy and refinancing.
 It was not immediately clear Thursday how much cash G.M. would raise from the two transactions. ''It's a big deal, it's a good deal,'' a person close to G.M. said.
 Daewoo develops many of G.M.'s small cars, an important niche with oil prices above $70 a barrel, which many analysts expect to continue. But by decreasing its exposure to the Chinese and Indian markets, G.M. is paying a high price to rescue Daewoo.
 China has surpassed the United States this year as the world's largest auto market in terms of number of cars sold. Sales were up 40 percent in the first 10 months of this year compared with the same period last year, and up 69 percent in October compared with the period a year earlier.
 Early indications are that November was even better. Sales by G.M.'s joint ventures in China more than doubled last month compared with a year ago, surging 109.5 percent. Industrywide figures for last month are not yet available.
 The Indian auto market has also grown powerfully this year, although not as much as China's. The number of cars sold in India was up 12 percent in the first 10 months of this year compared with the same period last year, and the year-over-year gain was 38 percent in October, according to J.D. Power and Associates.
 G.M. is the fifth-largest automaker in India and has had slower growth than three out of four of the leaders. G.M. sells fairly costly Chevrolets in India at a time when the market for basic transportation there is expanding quickly, prompting G.M. executives to cast around for ways to sell inexpensive cars in India at a profit.
 G.M. has become the second-largest automaker in China, after Volkswagen, mainly through a 50-50 venture with Shanghai Automotive that makes a wide range of G.M.-designed cars. Under the deal being completed now, G.M. would sell a 1 percent stake in the venture to Shanghai Automotive, raising the Chinese automaker's share to 51 percent, although G.M. would retain equal voting rights in company decisions and have an option to buy back the stake later, people with knowledge of the transaction said.
 Michael Dunne, an independent auto consultant specializing in Asian markets, said that for G.M. to accept a minority holding in its main joint venture signified an inevitable decline in G.M.'s influence in China.
 ''Dropping below the 50-50 partnership is huge -- there may be a way to preserve voting rights, but symbolically, it is a step down,'' Mr. Dunne said. Such symbolism is especially important in China, he added.
 G.M. is separately putting its Indian operations into a new joint venture with Shanghai Automotive, effectively selling about half of these operations to its Chinese partner as well.
 G.M. also holds a 34 percent stake in a successful manufacturer of inexpensive minivans and pickup trucks, S.A.I.C.-G.M.-Wuling Automobile, while Shanghai Automotive owns 50.1 percent. The city of Liuzhou, in southernmost China, owns the rest of that venture.
 Yale Zhang, the director of greater China vehicle forecasting at CSM Worldwide, a big auto consulting company, said that Wuling would be a natural choice to expand in India because it sold some of the world's lowest-cost light vehicles. Its $4,000 minivans and pickups have been extremely successful in less prosperous areas of China.
 Wuling has little knowledge of the Indian market, however, and G.M. can provide that, Mr. Zhang said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A car from General Motors and its Chinese partner, the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation. G.M. is expected to sell a 1 percent stake in the automaker and half its operations in India. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); STATISTICS (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (76%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%) EAST CHINA (94%) CHINA (98%); INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



106 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Italy May Add 1,000 Extra Troops in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Reporting was contributed by Carlotta Gall and Sangar Rahimi from Kabul, Afghanistan; Sabrina Tavernise and Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan; Steven Erlanger and Nadim Audi from Paris; and Victor Homola from Berlin.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As political and military leaders across the globe pondered President Obama's announcement of his Afghan strategy, European allies offered a mixed response, with some of the biggest contributors to the NATO coalition withholding promises of immediate troop reinforcements.
 But with NATO foreign ministers set to hold two days of talks at the alliance's headquarters in Brussels starting Thursday, Italy was reported to be considering the biggest increase among European allies made public so far, about 1,000 soldiers. 
 Corriere della Sera, a daily newspaper, quoted the Italian defense minister Ignacio La Russa, as saying the scale of reinforcements would be discussed at a meeting between the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. Asked if the number was likely to be around 1,000, Mr. La Russa said: ''Yes, I'd say so.''
 According to the NATO command in Afghanistan, Italy has 2,750 soldiers currently serving in western Afghanistan. An increase of 1,000 soldiers would put the Italian deployment on a par with France. 
 The NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said Wednesday he believed members of the alliance would contribute 5,000 soldiers -- and possibly more -- to make a ''substantial'' increase to the 42,000 NATO troops already ranged against the Taliban.
 ''This is not just America's war,'' he said at the alliance's headquarters in Brussels.
 But the president's entreaties drew an ambivalent response in some European nations where the war is broadly unpopular among voters who question why it is being fought and whether it can be won.
 France and Germany ruled out an immediate commitment, saying they were awaiting an Afghanistan conference in London in late January. Other nations offered only limited numbers of soldiers. 
 Alvaro de Vasconcelos, director of the European Union Institute for Security Studies in Paris, said the war was ''badly perceived in Europe, contaminated by the Iraq war, the killing of civilians, the collateral damage, all of which has contributed to a widespread opposition to the Afghan war among Europeans.''
 ''If the civilian side is as important as the military one -- training the Afghan police, judiciary and doing development, which Europeans know very well how to do and consider their main expertise -- it will make it easier for European leaders to get support.'''
 ''More troops for a very unpopular war, without knowing where we're going, doesn't work -- you can't sell it to Europeans,'' Mr. de Vasconcelos said. ''But you can sell the transition from war to crisis management.''
 Mr. Obama's plan to send around 30,000 more American soldiers was closely watched in Pakistan, gripped by a Taliban insurgency intertwined with Afghanistan's.
 There, distrust of American intentions runs deep, partly because the United States is seen as having abandoned the region after the Soviet Union's withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989, and there is widespread fear in the security establishment of a repetition of those events. And Pakistanis remain concerned about the possible implications of a huge troop surge just across their long and porous border with Afghanistan.
 ''Pakistan looks forward to engaging closely with the United States in understanding the full import of the new strategy and to ensure that there would be no adverse fallout on Pakistan,'' the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
 Shireen Mazari, editor of an English-language Pakistani daily newspaper, The Nation, said the American surge was unlikely to bring success and would force Taliban insurgents into Pakistan. ''Their policy is flawed, and it has to be changed. Playing the numbers game has to be stopped,'' she said.
 Mehmood Shah, a former military official and a security analyst based in Peshawar, Pakistan, said: ''The biggest apprehension is that our international borders will be crossed by the U.S. military. It can create a big dilemma for us.''
 In Europe, some analysts also said Mr. Obama's speech had fallen short of expectations.
 ''This is one of Obama's most important foreign policy decisions,'' said Ayesha Khan, an analyst with Chatham House, a policy institute in London. ''It comes after months of deliberation and a painstaking consultative process, but the outcome to this much-anticipated and long-awaited announcement has been an anticlimax for those who expected a paradigm shift.''
 Mr. Rasmussen, the NATO secretary general, did not say where he expected additional coalition forces to come from. Britain, the second-largest contributor after the United States, has promised to add 500 to its 9,000-strong Afghan deployment, and Prime Minister Gordon Brown said Wednesday that Britain would ''continue to play its full part in persuading other countries to offer troops to the Afghanistan campaign.'' 
 Poland's defense minister said the country would increase its contingent by 600 from its current level of 2,000, to serve in combat, reconnaissance and training missions, The Associated Press reported, but the decision awaits governmental approval. A Spanish newspaper said Spain might increase its deployment by 200 soldiers to 1,200. Britain pledged to press other allies to boost their contingents in the patchwork of foreign troops in Afghanistan, known as the International Security Assistance Force.
 With more than 2,800 soldiers on the ground -- and a relatively high casualty rate among them -- Canada welcomed Mr. Obama's decision, with Foreign Minister Lawrence Cannon saying the ''additional U.S. resources will help to provide a more secure environment for the Afghan people.''
 The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, called Mr. Obama's speech on Tuesday night ''courageous, determined and lucid, giving new impetus to the international commitment'' but he did not commit to adding to France's nearly 3,750 troops now in the war zone.
 ''France expects clear commitments from Afghan authorities, in answer to the strong commitments of the international community, on policy, economic and social development and on fighting drug trafficking,'' he said.
 The foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, said in a radio interview Wednesday that France had increased its force levels in September and, in its area of operations, ''our zone doesn't need a troop increase. Our area is well taken care of.'' 
 But he did not rule out further adjustment, referring to the international conference on Afghanistan in London in late January. ''We will see how to adjust things then.''
 Germany, too, is awaiting the gathering in London to decide whether to increase the size of its contingent. ''We hear the wishes of the United States, but we will not decide in the coming days. We will decide only after the Afghanistan conference,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel said.
 Several German newspapers have reported that Washington is pressing for up to 2,500 more German soldiers. As the third-largest contributor in the alliance with 4,300 troops on the ground, Germany is currently debating a one-year renewal of a parliamentary mandate for the deployment which sets a maximum level of 4,500 troops. 
 An increase would need fresh parliamentary approval.
 In a statement issued in Kabul on Wednesday Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the top commander of American and NATO forces in Afghanistan, said the president's review of Afghan strategy had ''provided me with a clear military mission and the resources to accomplish our task.''
 General McChrystal had sought up to 40,000 American reinforcements in addition to the 68,000 already there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); FRANCO FRATTINI (54%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (98%); ITALY (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



107 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Blankfein Sets The Pace on Pay

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and ROB COX

 BODY:
How much should Goldman Sachs pay Lloyd C. Blankfein? 
 As Goldman rounds out a hugely profitable 2009, that question hangs over the bank and, indeed, all of Wall Street. 
 How much Mr. Blankfein, Goldman's chairman and chief executive, is paid this year will set a benchmark for the entire financial industry. After drawing so much fire for setting aside billions to pay its employees, while many ordinary Americans are still waiting for an economic recovery, Goldman has a chance to answer critics who view it as out of sync with the times. 
 A good first step in deciding Mr. Blankfein's compensation, which will set the standard for other senior Goldman executives, would be to throw out precedents from the bubble years. In 2007, for instance, Mr. Blankfein was paid $68 million, the rough equivalent of 0.6 percent of Goldman's net income that year. Based on that measure, and Goldman's projected profits, he would be due for a $64 million payday this year -- an outcome that would almost certainly provoke an uproar. 
 Yet back in 2007, Goldman was hardly the most egregious Wall Street player when it came to executive pay. As a proportion of earnings, Mr. Blankfein's 2007 compensation was half that of Richard S. Fuld Jr., then head of Lehman Brothers. 
 In 2006, John J. Mack, the leader of Morgan Stanley, received a smaller percentage of profits than Mr. Blankfein, at 0.5 percent. James E. Cayne, the former head of Bear Stearns, collected a whopping 1.9 cents for every dollar that Bear made the year before it went bust. 
 Some of the best paid Wall Street chieftains presided over some of the biggest failures. For years, people argued that Mr. Fuld and Mr. Cayne should be paid more handsomely than their peers because they held their jobs for more than a decade and safely navigated their firms through past crises and recent growth. 
 Those and other justifications for towering paychecks proved false. The credit crisis of 2008 exposed deep flaws in a business where investment banks magnified their returns with short-term debt financing. When that source dried up, a taxpayer-financed relief effort was needed to prevent the industry from collapsing. 
 Recent history explains why Mr. Blankfein's pay this year will be a crucial yardstick. Not only is Goldman making more money and better returns than any other firm, but changes of leadership at most of its rivals have made him one of the industry's elder statesmen, even though he has only been in his job for three years. It will be tough for other banks to justify paying their chiefs more than Mr. Blankfein, whatever the metrics. 
 But how much is enough -- or too much -- for Mr. Blankfein? While Goldman is on course to earn almost $11 billion this year, it is prospering in part on the back of taxpayer-sponsored and -financed programs to kick start capital markets. Goldman seems reluctant to concede that it, too, would have fared poorly without such government intervention. The backlash over the billions in compensation that Goldman is expected to dole out this year may tempt the bank's board to keep Mr. Blankfein's pay in the single-digit millions. But critics of Wall Street and executive pay probably would oppose a $9 million payout almost as much as one that was twice as large. 
 Still, Mr. Blankfein deserves to be rewarded for leading Goldman through the crisis. That feat alone is worth more than average pay of chief executives running Standard & Poor's 500-stock index companies, which is $11 million. It is also worth a premium to the $9 million that Robert H. Benmosche is to receive for running the American International Group, which is now owned by the government.
 The right number for Mr. Blankfein may be around $20 million. And in a nod to concerns about limiting short-term incentives, Goldman could pay 90 percent of that in stock -- compared with 60 percent in 2007. At a time of high unemployment, and after significant government assistance in bailing out the capital markets, that might strike some as overly generous. But such a payday would be far less than boom-time bonanzas -- and, at the equivalent of about at 0.2 percent of Goldman's earnings this year, it would set a reasonable ceiling for Goldman's less profitable peers. 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: How many millions will Goldman Sachs pay its leader, Lloyd C. Blankfein? (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); DEBT FINANCING (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (94%); JIMMY CAYNE (58%); RICHARD S FULD (57%); JAMES E CAYNE (57%); JOHN J MACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



108 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Concedes Fed Lapses

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Under fire from Democrats and Republicans alike, Ben S. Bernanke on Thursday defended his record as chairman of the Federal Reserve but conceded that the central bank's lapses contributed to the financial crisis.
 ''I did not anticipate a crisis of this magnitude,'' Mr. Bernanke acknowledged in an occasionally contentious hearing on his nomination for a second term as Fed chairman.
 Mr. Bernanke volunteered that the Fed had been ''slow'' in protecting consumers from high-risk mortgages during the housing bubble and that it should have forced banks to hold more capital for all the risks they were taking on. 
 ''In the area where we had responsibility, the bank holding companies, we should have done more,'' he told lawmakers. ''That is a mistake we won't make again.''
 As he faced the Senate banking committee on Thursday morning, Mr. Bernanke still seemed to have enough support to win approval for a second term.
 But he and the Fed as an institution came under withering criticism for failing to recognize the crisis until it was too late and then bailing out financial giants like Citigroup and the American International Group.
 The hearing provided new evidence of doubt among lawmakers about the Federal Reserve's role as the nation's guardian of the financial system.
 ''In the face of rising home prices and risky mortgage underwriting, the Fed failed to act,'' said Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee. ''Many of the Fed's responses, in my view, greatly amplified the problem of moral hazard stemming from 'too big to fail' treatment of large financial institutions and activities.''
 At the end of the hearing, Mr. Shelby signaled his agreement with the committee's Democratic chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, that the Fed should give up a large measure of its authority as a financial regulator.
 Mr. Dodd, who strongly endorsed Mr. Bernanke for a second term as Fed chairman, has proposed that the Fed's powers as a bank regulator ought to be transferred to a new consolidated agency.
 Mr. Bernanke and other top Fed officials adamantly oppose that idea, arguing that the Fed has unique expertise and that its ability to preserve financial stability depends on having the detailed information that only a regulator has about the inner workings of major institutions.
 The debate is just beginning, and it is unclear whether Mr. Shelby and other Republicans even want to team up with Democrats on an overhaul of financial regulation. Democrats on the committee are divided. Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, made it clear that he wanted the Fed to remain a bank regulator.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Bernanke and the Fed came under more populist attacks from lawmakers in both parties. 
 On Tuesday, Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont declared that he would try to block Mr. Bernanke's approval on the Senate floor by placing a hold on his nomination. Senate leaders would need 60 votes, rather than a simple majority, to override the hold.
 And Senator Jim Bunning, a Kentucky Republican who was the only person to vote against Mr. Bernanke's original appointment as chairman in 2006, vowed on Wednesday to ''do everything I can to stop your nomination and drag this out as long as I can.''
 Instead of even asking questions, Mr. Bunning used all of his allotted time in the first round of questioning for a tirade in which he concluded that ''your time as Fed chairman has been a failure.''
 Mr. Bernanke did not flinch. While acknowledging that the Federal Reserve had made mistakes, he assert that the huge rescue operations put in place by the Fed, the Treasury and by Congress had prevented the financial crisis from being ''markedly worse'' than it was. 
 ''Taken together, the Federal Reserve's actions have contributed substantially to the significant improvement in financial conditions and to what now appear to be the beginnings of a turnaround in both the U.S. and foreign economies,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 The Fed chairman also highlighted the central bank's efforts to tighten financial regulation in many areas, like stricter rules on subprime mortgages and credit card fees, tougher capital requirements and new proposals to regulate executive compensation at banks. 
 ''A financial crisis of the severity we have experienced must prompt financial institutions and regulators alike to undertake unsparing self-assessments of their past performance,'' Mr. Bernanke acknowledged.
 ''At the Federal Reserve, we have been actively engaged in identifying and implementing improvements in our regulation and supervision of financial firms,'' he said.
 Mr. Bernanke appeared to have the support of most Democrats on the banking committee. Mr. Dodd, the committee chairman, praised Mr. Bernanke's response to the financial crisis and forcefully endorsed him for a second term -- even though he argued that the Fed should give up its role as a bank regulator.
 ''Under your leadership, Mr. Chairman, the Federal Reserve has taken extraordinary actions to right the economy,'' Mr. Dodd told Mr. Bernanke. ''I believe that you deserve another term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, and I intend to vote for your nomination.''
 Mr. Bernanke, a former professor at Princeton University and a Republican, was appointed to his first term as Fed chairman by President George W. Bush. But he also forged a close relationship during the financial crisis with President Obama, who nominated him for a second four-year term.
 If critics like Mr. Sanders and Mr. Bunning follow through on their pledges to block Mr. Bernanke's nomination, Senate leaders will need to come up with 60 votes to override their holds.
 But unlike so many of the partisan battles that have often paralyzed the Senate, because Democrats hold 60 votes, Mr. Bernanke has enough support to clear that hurdle. 
 Mr. Bernanke's term as Fed chairman expires on Jan. 31, 2010. But even if the Senate did not confirm him or some other candidate by that date, Mr. Bernanke would still hold his seat as a Fed governor and would be allowed to remain an acting Fed chairman until he or a successor was confirmed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke, far left, was scolded at a hearing on Thursday to reconfirm him as the Federal Reserve chairman by Senator James Bunning, left, who called him ''a failure.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); HOME PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%); JIM BUNNING (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BERNIE SANDERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



109 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Largely Sidelined in Lobbying for Same-Sex Marriage Votes

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
In the days leading up to Wednesday's State Senate vote on a bill that would have legalized same-sex marriage, a who's who of New York politics worked the phones, trying to cajole senators to vote yes.
 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, Senator Charles E. Schumer and Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, coordinated with advocates of gay rights to reach out to nearly every senator considered a potential swing vote. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg also made calls and was prepared to fly at a moment's notice to Albany, where two trucks with members of his security detail were waiting at the airport to whisk him to the Capitol.
 But advocates of same-sex marriage were less enthusiastic for the help of one very high-profile state leader: Gov. David A. Paterson.
 Few political leaders in New York have been as consistently outspoken in support of same-sex marriage as Mr. Paterson, and even fewer have made it such a legacy-building issue. Yet Mr. Paterson, who has low approval ratings and has recently become deeply unpopular with Senate Democrats after a bruising battle over cutting the state budget, found himself largely sidelined as the Senate vote approached.
 Advocates of gay rights and Senate Democrats leading the effort to build support for the bill -- which failed by a 38-to-24 vote -- said in interviews that they felt the governor had little political capital to leverage, so they leaned on him less than they did other state leaders.
 The governor's office disputed the characterization that Mr. Paterson was marginalized by supporters of same-sex marriage and said that Mr. Paterson's offer to make calls to swing-vote senators was accepted.
 ''He made a number of calls to various senators; the advocates requested that he do that,'' said Peter Kauffmann, the governor's chief spokesman. ''He obviously was very personally invested in the issue, believes very strongly in it and wanted to do everything he could to assist.''
 But many of the state legislators who lobbied colleagues to support the same-sex marriage bill said the governor played little, if any, role in making personal appeals to senators in the critical days before the vote.
 ''He had every opportunity to be helpful, and he could have been helpful,'' said Matthew J. Titone, a Democratic assemblyman from Staten Island who is gay. ''So it is very disappointing that he wasn't.''
 Senator Diane J. Savino, another Staten Island Democrat, said of the governor's role in lobbying for votes, ''If he did, I'm not aware of it.''
 Added Ms. Savino: ''He is the governor. I think he could have been helpful to people who are sitting on the fence.''
 But Senate Democratic officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid harming their relationships with the governor, said that his low popularity and increasingly confrontational relationship with the Legislature made it impossible for them to turn to the governor, who could have been a huge asset under different circumstances.
 ''None of us reached out for our ace in the hole, which should have been the governor,'' a senior Democratic staff member said.
 Democrats pointed to a number of moves by the governor that they said made for a tense political atmosphere right before the marriage vote, including antagonizing state legislators with a harshly worded statement on Monday that accused them of being more concerned with re-election than with solving the state's financial problems.
 Still, supporters of the marriage bill acknowledged that they could not lay the blame for its failure entirely at the governor's feet. Even a more popular governor with a strong working relationship with the Legislature would have found it difficult to overcome the opposition. 
 On Thursday, senators who voted against the bill shed more light on their positions. Two senators who were considered swing votes, Joseph P. Addabbo Jr., a Democrat from Queens, and Kemp Hannon, a Republican from Long Island, cited overwhelming opposition to same-sex marriage among their constituents.
 Mr. Hannon said that he felt public opinion in his district shift away from supporting same-sex marriage after the recession began hitting New York hard this year. 
 ''The best way to sum it up: It's just the wrong time and the wrong type of issue,'' he said, adding that he believed support for same-sex marriage was around 50 percent at the beginning of the year. Now, he said, ''I think that has substantially diminished.''
 Mr. Hannon added: ''There is a need to be both responsive and reflective of your district. That was a major part of the decision-making process.'' 
 Mr. Addabbo said that he and his staff kept a log of all the calls, e-mail messages and letters that came into his office on same-sex marriage -- 400 in all, he said.
 ''Seventy-four percent were against it,'' he said. ''I was trying to represent the consensus of my district.''
 Some have cited Mr. Addabbo, whose name falls second in the roll call when Senate votes are taken, as a major factor in setting the tone for the losing vote. He was widely known as a possible yes vote. And by his voting no, some supporters of the bill have said that he encouraged undecided senators to vote no as well.
 Mr. Addabbo disputed that. ''I don't think there was any domino effect at all,'' he said. ''Even before I said no, these votes were determined.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A spokesman for Gov. David A. Paterson, center, said he had not been marginalized and had called swing-vote senators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); MARRIAGE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGETS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



110 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Decision on Afghanistan Is Straining Ties With Democrats

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's decision to send more troops to Afghanistan over the objections of fellow Democrats on Capitol Hill is straining a relationship already struggling under the weight of an administration agenda that some Democratic lawmakers fear is placing them in a politically vulnerable position.
 The result has been a subtle shift in which Democrats in Congress are becoming less deferential to the White House, making clear that Mr. Obama will not always be able to count on them to fall into line and highlighting how Mr. Obama's expansive ambitions are running up against political realities. 
 The troop buildup is stirring unease among Democrats at a time when they have been struggling to navigate crosscurrents of pressure from different constituencies. Democrats now face the prospect of enacting a health care bill that Republicans are using to paint them as fiscally irresponsible and intent on extending the government's reach deeper into the economy and personal health decisions. 
 Mr. Obama continues to push for action to curb global warming and to revamp immigration policy, subjects that seem certain to expose new geographic and ideological strains in the party, even as Democrats in Congress press the White House to make addressing high unemployment its singular focus.
 To a considerable extent, the strain stems from a calculation by Mr. Obama's aides that it is essential to move early in the term. But there are political calculations as well: Mr. Obama has nearly three years to recover from any damage he suffers by pushing through legislation that divides the public. Members of Congress do not.
 ''They say you do the tough things early,'' said Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of New York. ''Early 2010 is early for the White House, but it is perilously late for members of Congress. I don't know if it's a new tension, but it's certainly something people are talking about on the Hill.''
 Some Democrats worry that the administration is willing to sacrifice some House and Senate seats in the interest of accomplishing its broader goals.
 ''There is a tension and a wariness about where everyone is coming from,'' said Representative Raul M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona and co-chairman of the House's liberal caucus. ''We are being asked to be loyal soldiers, but I think what you are seeing now is resistance to going along to just go along.''
 Mr. Obama's aides and Congressional Democrats said that the reaction to the troop buildup had in fact been more restrained than they had expected, and that they were confident that in the end Democrats would rally behind Mr. Obama on the issue. Democrats will have to vote at some point next year on financing the troop buildup and many are likely to vote against him.
 ''The president made a courageous decision knowing full well that people in his own party would be the most vocal critics,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. ''But that won't interfere with the things we agree on: the economy, health care and energy independence legislation.''
 Still, this White House can ill afford even a slight souring of its relationship with Congressional Democrats at a time when it is calling on them to do so much. And some of the issues Mr. Obama is pressing could make Democrats vulnerable to attack not only by Republicans, but also by fellow Democrats in primaries. 
 In Pennsylvania, Senator Arlen Specter has come out against Mr. Obama's Afghanistan policy, setting up a clash against his Democratic primary opponent, Representative Joe Sestak, who backs the escalation of the war. His move gives Mr. Specter, who switched parties earlier this year, a chance to win some support from the left, which has been the base of Mr. Sestak's support.
 Some groups on the left have threatened to run candidates in primaries against moderate Democratic incumbents who do not vote in favor of including in the health care bill some form of a public insurance plan to compete with private insurance.
 Members of the Congressional Black Caucus have refused to cooperate with advancing a major overhaul of federal financial regulation out of frustration with what they see as the administration's inattention to the economic struggles of members of minorities.
 ''There are voices here that have information pertinent to the administration's program, but many of those voices are not being heard,'' said Representative Alcee L. Hastings, Democrat of Florida and senior member of the black caucus.
 And it is not just the progressive ranks where Congressional patience with the White House is wearing thin. 
 Conservative and moderate Democrats from swing districts and states are uneasy over the push on a health care overhaul, with some questioning whether the effort on health care should have instead been set aside for a singular focus on the economy and jobs.
 ''Whether it is at the end of 10 months or two years, the question in the minds of the American people is going to be, Has everything been done to get the economic engine running again, to put people back to work?'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat up for re-election next year.
 Many senior Democrats say the administration's war strategy could divert scarce resources from domestic priorities in what promises to be a difficult budget year in 2010. 
 ''I do not support the decision to prolong and expand a risky and unsustainable strategy in the region,'' Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, told administration representatives appearing Thursday before the Foreign Relations Committee. ''I do not believe more American lives should be risked for a war that no longer serves our most pressing national security interests.''
 Mr. Obama remains extremely well liked among Democratic members of Congress, and that reservoir of good will could be critical in the months ahead. Even Democrats who are speaking out aggressively against the troop buildup emphasize that they strongly support Mr. Obama, demonstrating that lawmakers know their fates are tied to how successful the president is. 
 ''We want this administration to be successful,'' Mr. Grijalva said. ''It is important to us and it is important to the country. But the loyalty issue is a two-way street.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A MOMENT TO CONFER: Senator Russ Feingold talked with Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, before a panel hearing on Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)
(PHOTOS) (A22) CHART: Voices of Concern: Many Democrats have expressed skepticism about President Obama's proposal to send more American troops into Afghanistan, citing concerns about costs, the global nature of Al Qaeda and inefficacy of the Afghan government. A look at what a few have said since Mr. Obama's speech on Tuesday: SENATE: Barbara Boxer Calif. Foreign Relations Committee
Russ Feingold Wis. Foreign Relations Committee
Arlen Specter Pa. Appropriations Committee
John P. Murtha Pa. Chairman, defense appropriations subcommittee
David R. Obey Wis. Chairman, Appropriations Committee
 Louise M. Slaughter N.Y. (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); IMMIGRATION (52%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RUSS FEINGOLD (73%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); JOHN P MURTHA (58%); RAUL M GRIJALVA (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); DAVE OBEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



111 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Afghans See Sharp Shift in U.S. Tone

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- For Afghans, the change in tone was unmistakable. Unlike Bush-era speeches pledging unending support, President Obama suddenly introduced a timeline and a period of 18 months before the start of a drawdown of troops. 
 The timetable set off alarm here. It was the subject of television discussions and journalists' questions to the American ambassador, Karl W. Eikenberry, a retired lieutenant general, as well as to Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the commander of American forces here. 
 If Tuesday night was about President Obama sending a message to the American public that the war in Afghanistan would not be open-ended, then Wednesday in Kabul was about reassuring the Afghans of America's long-term commitment.
 To underscore that, General Eikenberry signed an agreement with the Afghan foreign minister, Rangin Dadfar Spanta, at a ceremony to open the first United States consulate in Afghanistan in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif, with another planned in the city of Herat. 
 ''I want to emphasize that we have a very comprehensive approach and a long-term friendship and partnership with Afghanistan,'' General Eikenberry said. President Obama discussed further assistance in energy, water management, mines, agriculture and improvement of the civil service in his video conference call on Tuesday with President Hamid Karzai, he added. 
 He explained to the mostly Afghan journalists gathered that when the drawdown begins in 18 months, the number of troops on the ground would be as much as 35,000 more than at present and the Afghan forces stronger. 
 Mr. Spanta said he was reassured in an hourlong call on Tuesday with his counterpart, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. But he admitted that the 18-month timeline for the start of a transition to Afghan authority had served something of a shock therapy to the Afghan government. 
 ''Can we do it?'' he said. ''That is the main question. This is not done in a moment. It is a process. They have to have strategic patience with us.''
 In a clear sign of his government's uneasiness at the flagging American enthusiasm for the Afghan war, Mr. Spanta said he had just presented a proposal to Mr. Karzai to work out a new strategic partnership with the United States to secure the kind of predictable, long-term assistance that close American allies like Israel and Egypt enjoy. 
 All parties involved agreed that a great deal of the job ahead was about managing perceptions. 
 ''We have to manage the public,'' said a senior Afghan government aide, speaking anonymously so he could talk more freely. 
 President Obama was very much speaking to the American public in his speech, he said. American military officials had assured them that the 18-month timeline was more for the American public opinion than any unmovable deadline for the Afghans. 
 The Afghans had to persuade their own public, the aide said. ''Our own problem is that people have a war-torn mentality; they will side with the winner, and we have to show them that the Afghan government can be the winner,'' he said.
 The Taliban jumped in with their own draft of reality. President Obama was ignoring the interests of his own people, who were suffering an economic downturn, the group said in an e-mail message. ''It clearly indicates that the United States has broad, long-term, brazen plans not only for Afghanistan but also for the region,'' said the statement, bearing the heading of the Islamic Emirates of Afghanistan. 
 The Taliban are prepared for a long and patient resistance against the increase of American troops, the statement said, warning that sending more troops will only lead to more casualties for NATO and American troops and cause more Afghan civilian casualties. 
 For Mr. Karzai, who is under exceptionally strong pressure to choose a clean and competent cabinet, and to move decisively to combat corruption, the speech itself was not overly harsh. ''Tough love,'' one aide called it. Far stronger words are being used in private to push for reforms and the appointment of effective minister and officials, one Western official said. 
 One idea that has raised concern in the Karzai government was a plan to bypass the central government and give direct assistance to effective regional governors and ministers, and Mr. Spanta soundly rejected the idea.
 Mr. Karzai, who has been smarting ever since he was forced to accept that he did not win the presidential election outright, avoided any comment on the president's speech. 
 A statement from the presidential palace stated only that the government welcomed President Obama's new strategy for the support it offered in development and training for Afghan institutions and in protecting the Afghan people, and commended it for the recognition that terrorists were operating in the region beyond Afghanistan's borders in Pakistan. 
 ''Afghanistan will spare no effort in achieving the above objectives,'' it said. 
 Mr. Spanta was the only minister who commented on the speech. He praised Mr. Obama's comments pinpointing that Afghanistan suffered from extremist safe havens in Pakistan, the first time an American president had stated it so publicly that the center of terrorism was across the border in Pakistan, Mr. Spanta said. ''This is the first time we heard that from the president,'' he said. ''It is a tremendous change and progress.'' 
 But for some it was not enough. ''Faced with a surge the Taliban will go to Pakistan,'' said Nader Khan Kutawaisi, a member of Parliament from Paktika province, which borders Pakistan's tribal areas. ''It is better to concentrate on their safe havens. As everyone knows they have a big headquarters in Quetta and shadow governors living there and I know people went to congratulate one governor for Id,'' he said, referring to Id al-Adha, the Muslim holiday celebrated last week. 
 Yet generally Afghan officials have commended the new strategy -- much of which has already been in place since General McChrystal took command for six months -- to lower civilian casualties, protect the Afghan people, train more Afghan forces and hand over more responsibility to them.
 In particular, those officials pitted on the front line against the Taliban insurgents said a rapid surge of 30,000 troops this winter was desperately needed, since Afghan forces could not fight off the current insurgency on their own. 
 ''It's a very good idea,'' said a senior security official who has been in the forefront of tracking Al Qaeda and Taliban since 2001. The United States had very good human intelligence on Taliban on both sides of the border in Afghanistan and Pakistan but they did not have enough good fighters in the Afghan army and police, he said.
 ''They need the Americans,'' he said. A surge of extra forces could undercut the insurgency in six months since many of the Taliban were ready to negotiate and could be persuaded to swap sides with a concerted effort, he said. 
 In Kabul, an increase in troops was generally seen as a gesture of welcome strength. Yet in the south, where the civilian cost has been highest and there is a deep weariness of the war, the mood has been generally against an increase in troops since many fear it would only increase the civilian cost. The test would be in how the extra troops perform, one government official said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (79%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



112 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'UP IN THE AIR'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Neither Here Nor There

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
For most people there's no joy in sucking down recycled oxygen while hurtling above the clouds. The free drinks and freshly baked cookies in business might be nice. (I wouldn't know.) For most of us, though, air travel largely invokes the indignities of the stockyard, complete with the crowding and pushing, the endlessly long lines, hovering handlers, carefully timed feedings, a faint communal reek and underlying whiff of peril. The skies rarely seem friendly anymore, but to Ryan Bingham, the corporate assassin played by George Clooney in the laugh-infused stealth tragedy ''Up in the Air,'' they're so welcoming, he might as well be home. 
 And so he is. Like many high-altitude border crossers who sometimes seem alone in keeping the airlines aloft, those business types with the corrugated brows, juggling BlackBerrys and double-shot lattes, Bingham lives in between here and there, home and away. The difference is, he loves interstitial living, finds comfort and more in all the spaces associated with airports and airplanes or in what Walter Kirn, in his novel that inspired the film, calls Airworld. ''To know me is to fly with me,'' Bingham says in the film, like an airborne Descartes. It's as if as a child he had heard -- and heeded -- the call of the female attendants for National Airlines who, in the gilded flying age, used to purr, ''Fly Me.'' Back when flying meant soaring.
 That was then, this is now, and this is here, meaning the crash-and-burn-baby-burn America in which one man's economic crisis is another's golden opportunity. This is our moment, enthuses Craig Gregory (Jason Bateman, pitch perfect), the unctuous pragmatist for whom Bingham works if rarely sees in person. Some men hunt heads, others -- like Bingham -- lop them off. A ''career transition'' counselor, he crisscrosses the country firing employees whose bosses won't pull the plug themselves. Racking up scalps and miles might seem like a tough way to make a living. Yet it suits Bingham, a solo act for whom no hotel room is too depressing or crowd too lonely, which makes him ripe for the dramatic picking. 
 The young director Jason Reitman initially takes a hard-sell approach to Bingham, putting the character -- and of course Mr. Clooney -- front, center and under flattering light, as if he were selling a luxury car or diamond watch, which in some ways he is. In fighting trim, Mr. Clooney looks suitably sleek, even when dressed in the generic business clothes he's soon packing into a suitcase, a task that's captured in a series of precisely framed, rapid shots. Expressive of both efficiency and a routinized existence, this sequence is itself an economic narrative device (one Mr. Reitman repeats). But it also comes across as glib, a shortcut to character, making it hard to know if it's Bingham who's the slick one here or Mr. Reitman. 
 The answer is both, though Mr. Reitman is working harder than it first appears and more than he did in either ''Juno'' or ''Thank You for Smoking,'' his only other features. The son of a funnyman (his father, the producer-director Ivan Reitman, helped bankroll this movie), the younger Mr. Reitman seems to have been weaned on screwball comedies -- he likes women and teasing patter -- and classic Hollywood is in his blood. ''Up in the Air'' is an assertively, and unapologetically, tidy package, from its use of romance to instill some drama into the narrative (the book introduces disease instead) and the mope-rock tunes that Mr. Reitman needlessly overuses. When you have Mr. Clooney and Vera Farmiga on camera, you don't need some professional emoticon mewling away on the soundtrack. 
 Ms. Farmiga enters the picture, legs and intelligence flashing, just around the time you think that nothing much is going to happen with Bingham. (A crash? a terrorist strike?) As Alex, a fast-moving businesswoman, Ms. Farmiga bats around the double-entendres effortlessly and brings out real warmth and palpable vulnerability in her co-star. To watch them together -- particularly during their later scenes, when they visit Bingham's hometown -- is to realize just how much alone time Mr. Clooney clocks in his movies. It says something about the dearth of strong female stars in American cinema that he hasn't been this well matched with a woman since Jennifer Lopez in the 1998 caper film ''Out of Sight.'' (In the years since, Brad Pitt has been playing Rosalind Russell to Mr. Clooney's Cary Grant in the ''Ocean's'' movies.) 
 One of the pleasures of ''Up in the Air'' is that its actresses -- including Anna Kendrick, who plays Bingham's colleague Natalie -- share the frame with Mr. Clooney as equals, not props. The ferocious Ms. Kendrick, her ponytail swinging like an ax, grabs every scene she's in, which works for her go-getter (go-get-him) character, who is sent out on the road with Bingham as part of an efficiency campaign. She's a monster for our times: a presumed human-resources expert who, having come of age in front of a computer, has no grasp of the human. By contrast Bingham, who fires people face to face with a small smile and pat speech, comes across as the good guy, though only if you forget what he does for a living.
 Mr. Reitman successfully exploits the seeming disconnect between his star (whom we can't help but like) and the character he plays (whom we want to like, simply because he's played by Mr. Clooney), so much so that it takes some time for you to notice the approaching darkness. Mr. Reitman certainly hints at the trouble to come: however bright Mr. Clooney's smile, there is something terribly off about Bingham's blithe attitude both toward his own existential reality and his profession. Instructively, it is how Mr. Reitman circles around the character, showing how Bingham's actions affect not just him, but also those around him -- including the people he fires -- that deepen the movie if not its peripatetic center.
 There are different ways into ''Up in the Air,'' which can be viewed as a well-timed snapshot of an economically flailing America, appreciated as a study in terminal narcissism or dismissed as a sentimental testament to traditional coupling. A wedding subplot, for one, involving Bingham's sisters (Melanie Lynskey and Amy Morton), which brings him closer to Alex, threatens to swamp the story in sentimentality. Yet to put too much stock in this detour (which also involves Danny McBride) is to flatten a film bristling with contradictions. Certainly you can fall for Bingham, maybe even shed a tear for him, though don't get carried away (as he does) or mistake him for some kind of hero. The truer tragedy here, as the repeated images of fired men and women suggest, doesn't belong to him. 
 ''Up in the Air'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Adult language and partial female nudity if not (alas) male. 
 UP IN THE AIR
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 Directed by Jason Reitman; written by Mr. Reitman and Sheldon Turner, based on the novel by Walter Kirn; director of photography, Eric Steelberg; edited by Dana E. Glauberman; music by Rolfe Kent; production designer, Steve Saklad; produced by Ivan Reitman, Jason Reitman, Daniel Dubiecki and Jeffrey Clifford; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes. 
 WITH: George Clooney (Ryan Bingham), Vera Farmiga (Alex Goran), Anna Kendrick (Natalie Keener), Danny McBride (Jim Miller), Jason Bateman (Craig Gregory), Melanie Lynskey (Julie Bingham), Amy Morton (Kara Bingham), Sam Elliott (Maynard Finch), J. K. Simmons (Bob), Zach Galifianakis (Steve) and Chris Lowell (Kevin). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Up in the Air, with George Clooney and Vera Farmiga as fast-moving high fliers who find romance at the airport. The film, directed by Jason Reitman, opens Friday nationwide. (C1)
 George Clooney as a ''career transition'' counselor and Anna Kendrick as his colleague in Jason Reitman's ''Up in the Air.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Up in the Air (Movie); Up in the Air (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



113 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Focusing On Job Creation, Seeks New Ideas

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After months of focusing on Afghanistan and health care, President Obama turned his attention on Thursday to the high level of joblessness, but offered no promise that he could do much to bring unemployment down quickly even as he comes under pressure from his own party to do more.
 At a White House forum, scheduled for the day before the government releases unemployment and job loss figures for November, Mr. Obama sought new ideas from business executives, labor leaders, economists and others. Confronted with concern that his own ambitious agenda and the uncertain climate it has created among employers have slowed hiring, the president defended his policies.
 Mr. Obama said he would entertain ''every demonstrably good idea'' for creating jobs, but he cautioned that ''our resources are limited.''
 The president said he would announce some new ideas of his own next week. One of those, he indicated when he participated in a discussion group on clean energy, would be a program of weatherization incentives for homeowners and small businesses modeled on the popular ''cash for clunkers'' program. 
 On Capitol Hill, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told senators at a sometimes testy hearing on his confirmation for a second term, ''Jobs are the issue right now.'' 
 ''It really is the biggest challenge, the most difficult problem that we face right now,'' Mr. Bernanke added, citing in particular the inability of many credit-worthy small businesses to get bank loans.
 In the House, where lawmakers are particularly sensitive to the employment issue since they all face re-election next year, Democratic leaders on Thursday were finishing work on a jobs bill for debate this month. It would extend expiring federal unemployment benefits for people who have been out of jobs for long periods, and provide up $70 billion for roads and infrastructure projects and for aid to small business. House Democrats plan to pay for the plan by drawing from the $700 billion fund set up last year to bail out financial institutions. 
 The House also passed legislation on Thursday that would freeze the federal tax on large estates at its current level. Under current law, the tax would have disappeared entirely next year, only to reappear at much higher levels in 2011. The vote highlighted the raft of fiscal issues facing the administration and Congress and the tension between addressing budget deficits and taking potentially expensive actions to help the economy. 
 Mr. Obama's jobs event captured the political and policy vise now squeezing the president and his party at the end of his first year. It came on the eve of a government report that is expected to show unemployment remaining in double digits, and two days after Mr. Obama emphasized as he ordered 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan that he did not want the financial burdens of the war to overwhelm his domestic agenda. 
 Both the domestic and the military demands on the administration are raising costs unanticipated when Mr. Obama took office, even as pressures build to arrest annual budget deficits now exceeding $1 trillion. Those demands are also eroding the broad support that swept Mr. Obama into office, especially among independent voters, and igniting a guns-versus-butter budget debate in his own party not seen since the Vietnam era.
 While liberals are calling for ambitious job-creating measures along the lines of the New Deal and Republicans want to scale back government spending programs, Mr. Obama talked at the White House on Thursday of limited programs that he suggested could provide substantial bang for the buck when it comes to job creation. Among them was the weatherization program.
 Called ''cash for caulkers,'' it would enlist contractors and home-improvement companies like Home Depot -- whose chief executive was on the panel -- to advertise the benefits, much as car dealers did for the clunkers trade-ins this year.
 Yet that relatively modest proposal underscores the limits of the government's ability to affect a jobless recovery with the highest unemployment rate in 26 years -- and Mr. Obama acknowledged as much. Just as he said in Tuesday's Afghanistan speech that the nation could not afford an open-ended commitment there, especially when the economy is so weak and deficits so high, Mr. Obama emphasized at the jobs forum that the government had already done a lot with his $787 billion economic stimulus package and the $700 billion financial bailout that he inherited.
 ''I want to be clear: While I believe the government has a critical role in creating the conditions for economic growth, ultimately true economic recovery is only going to come from the private sector,'' he told his audience, which included executives and some critics from American Airlines, Boeing, Nucor, Google, Walt Disney and FedEx.
 Mr. Obama told the chief executives that he wanted to know: ''What's holding back business investment and how we can increase confidence and spur hiring? And if there are things that we're doing here in Washington that are inhibiting you, then we want to know about it.'' 
 He got a blunt answer from Fred P. Lampropoulos, founder and chief of Merit Medical Systems Inc., a medical device manufacturer in the Salt Lake City area. Mr. Lampropoulos said some in his discussion group agreed that businesses were uncertain about investment because ''there's such an aggressive legislative agenda that businesspeople don't really know what they ought to do.'' That uncertainty, he added, ''is really what's holding back the jobs.''
 The president acknowledged, ''This is a legitimate concern,'' one that he and his advisers had discussed before he took office.
 But Mr. Obama said he had decided that ''if we keep on putting off tough decisions about health care, about energy, about education, we'll never get to the point where there's a lot of appetite for that.'' 
 The argument that Democrats' ambitions are unnerving business is one that Republicans have been making lately, and it was prominent Thursday when House Republican leaders held a competing round table on jobs with conservative economists. 
 ''The American people are asking, 'Where are the jobs?' but all they are getting from Washington Democrats is more spending, more debt and more policies that hurt small businesses,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House minority leader.
 But W. James McNerney Jr., the head of the Boeing Company, said in an interview after the president's forum, ''If you ask me what creates the uncertainty I'm dealing with, it's more the state of the economy.'' 
 The administration's domestic agenda is a problem only to the extent that it ''is crowding out their attention'' to the economy, Mr. McNerney said, adding, ''I think the purpose of today was to convince us that there's at least a half-pivot in the other direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a Senate hearing on Thursday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said, ''Jobs are the issue right now.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
President Obama said Thursday that he would entertain ''every demonstrably good idea'' for creating jobs, but offered caution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 One plan offers weatherization incentives for homeowners and small businesses based on the ''cash for clunkers'' program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); BANK FAILURES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



114 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: The Turnaround Test

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Maybe Warren E. Buffett should have stuck with railroads.
 He once declared after an ill-fated bet on US Airways that he would resist any further urges to invest in airlines. But he ventured anyway into a high-end business that is an airline competitor of sorts -- NetJets. 
 Right about now, he may wish that he had simply bought more of the railways he has accumulated over the years.
 At NetJets, the returns have been disappointing -- and lately the losses severe. Through his investment company, Berkshire Hathaway, he bought the private jet travel business, which caters to the affluent, for $725 million in 1998. Even though Berkshire does not provide detailed results for this small piece of its empire, insiders confirm that Mr. Buffett has yet to recover his investment. 
 With problems mounting at the unit -- heavy losses and allegations of business improprieties -- Mr. Buffett dispatched David L. Sokol to straighten out NetJets in July. 
 Mr. Sokol's effort to turn the company around is being watched closely, in part because it provides a glimpse into the management style of a man considered a possible heir apparent to Mr. Buffett at Berkshire. 
 Mr. Sokol, who previously ran a utility company, has his work cut out for him. NetJets is a luxury business, but its revenue is shrinking, its management is in upheaval and its problems include accusations of improper workplace behavior. 
 While some former NetJets executives describe his management approach as overly aggressive, Mr. Sokol counters that he merely has ''high expectations'' for planning and execution and conveys them to employees.
 Mr. Sokol describes his mission succinctly. ''We are instilling a culture of cost discipline and planning.'' In an e-mail message to the staff, he wrote that he had never seen a company of NetJets' size that operated ''without an integrated business plan'' and with a budget that was ''often ignored.'' 
 Within a week of his arrival in July, Richard T. Santulli, the founder and chief executive of NetJets, resigned. According to several people close to the company, Mr. Santulli was unhappy that a Berkshire executive was brought in to provide oversight. 
 Mr. Santulli, who declined to comment for this article, is widely considered a visionary for creating a time-share business model for air travel, and a number of current and former executives fondly describe how he treated employees as family, perhaps a shortcoming when the business turned sour and cuts were called for. Initially, Mr. Sokol, 53, had been looking into allegations of excess spending and a consultant who was paid by both NetJets and a supplier. Those issues had been described in several letters to Berkshire from company employees, although the company has not identified the writers. 
 In a recent phone interview, Mr. Sokol said he had ''documented the issues and gotten them fixed.'' 
 After Mr. Santulli resigned, Mr. Sokol became chairman and chief executive, this time with a mandate to rein in costs. That decision was interpreted as a strong Buffett endorsement of Mr. Sokol, who he had no previous experience in airlines or luxury goods. 
 At MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company, Mr. Sokol turned a small energy company into a leading utility company supplying electricity and natural gas. From his post at the utility, now a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, which acquired the company in 2000, he notably supported the idea of lowering greenhouse gas emissions but rejected a complicated cap and trade system to achieve the goal. The Iowa company, where he still serves as chairman, posted $13.9 billion in revenue last year. 
 ''If there is something prized at Berkshire, it is the ability to commit capital,'' said Thomas A. Russo, a partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner, whose clients own Berkshire Hathaway stock. ''Mr. Sokol has over the years committed substantial amounts of capital both within the U.S. and overseas, and the returns on those investments have been strong.'' 
 But if Mr. Sokol is to succeed at NetJets, a company a fraction the size of MidAmerican, he needs to lower its costs while maintaining a luxury image. 
 Delivering a pleasant experience is crucial to the company's marketing efforts. None other than Mr. Buffett has said so. A NetJets user, he has posed with his pal Bill Gates in NetJets ads and endorsed private jet travel as a life enhancer. By owning stakes in jets that they share with other owners, customers get private flights for far less than the cost of owning their own plane. 
 The recession has taken a toll on the business, though. NetJets lost $531 million in the first nine months of 2009, and revenue fell 42 percent from a year earlier, to $2 billion. And that was not its first loss. Although NetJets had pretax profits between 2006 and 2008 of more than $550 million, according to one person knowledgeable about the company who spoke only under condition of anonymity, its record has been spotty.
 ''I call it the Scooby-Doo profitability rationale,'' said Robert Aboulafia, an aviation consultant with the Teal Group, a consulting firm. ''They were always close to achieving profitability, but there was always one thing that stood in the way, and it was usually related to expansion.'' 
 As sales fell off in 2008 and 2009, Mr. Santulli had begun selling some planes, but he resisted more drastic steps. To avoid layoffs, he favored voluntary measures like asking pilots to forgo holiday pay and to take additional time off. His reluctance to take more aggressive action may have been part of his downfall, Brian Foley, an aviation consultant, suggested.
 Could NetJets have been tougher on costs earlier? ''Sure they could,'' said a former company executive because he did not want to speak publicly about NetJets after leaving. ''But clients know that customer service really matters. Without it, air travel is just a commodity product and you can't compete.'' 
 Mr. Sokol is cutting more deeply. He has begun a program to reduce NetJet's 7,800-employee work force by up to 11 percent, including 495 of its 3,100 pilots, and has accelerated plans to sell as many as 10 percent of the company's 800 planes. Some of the high-end perks, including an annual poker tournament in Las Vegas and Loro Piana sweaters for jet owners, are going away, too. Over all, he expects to take $200 million, or 22 percent, out of the company's operating costs.
 Some former executives have complained about his management methods. A onetime NetJets executive, echoing the views of several others, said that Mr. Sokol was intimidating and put people on the defensive. ''When he first came in, he got on the phone with a group of us and said: 'I expect complete candor. I am taking notes and I expect full disclosure' '' or their jobs could be at stake, this person recalled. 
 Mr. Sokol said he simply read from a script and did not make threats. He recalled the script thusly: ''If you answer deceptively, that will not be looked upon favorably by the board.''
 One thing that has changed is the top management, with some bumpy transitions.
 Soon after Mr. Santulli left, Mr. Sokol promoted Ben Murray, who had overseen executive charters. Just weeks later, Mr. Murray was demoted to head of global asset management, where he oversaw the buying and selling of aircraft. Mr. Sokol said that Mr. Murray requested the change to ''deal with family issues.'' Mr. Murray declined to comment.
 Meanwhile, Jim Jacobs, who had been Mr. Santulli's No. 2, was made an adviser. The transition, according to Mr. Sokol, was part of a longstanding plan by Mr. Jacobs to leave the company at the end of January. Mr. Jacobs, too, declined to comment.
 Then in October, the European chairman, Mark Booth, and that unit's chief executive, Bill Kelly, abruptly resigned. Both of those men also declined to comment for this article, but several people close to the men said they were frustrated at being treated the same as their United States counterparts, even though the overseas business had been profitable for several years. They cited an e-mail message to the entire management team describing cost-control measures, in which Mr. Sokol wrote that any attempt to circumvent them would be dealt with ''harshly and swiftly.''
 The company had operated on some false assumptions, Mr. Sokol said in a recent interview. ''I think there was a view that you could make a good return given who your customers were,'' he said. Mr. Foley, the aviation consultant, estimates that NetJets' customers, fractional jet owners, spend an average of $250,000 a year.
 But Mr. Sokol says ''there was not as much pricing power as one would have thought.'' Though NetJets dominates the field with about 70 percent of the market, rivals like Flight Options provide intense price competition.
 Now Mr. Sokol must prove that he can make the business hum without damaging one of the best-known luxury brands in travel. With the cost cuts, he expects the company to be profitable next year, but gone are the suites at the Ohio State University football games and North Face jackets for employees.
 Mr. Sokol ''had to do something dramatic,'' said Bruce C. Greenwald, a professor at Columbia University Business School. ''But changing a culture is very difficult, and it is not therefore clear that things will work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NetJets plane in Columbus, Ohio. Warren E. Buffett's investment company, Berkshire Hathaway, bought the luxury plane travel company in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. KEVIN FITZSIMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
''We are instilling a culture of cost discipline and planning,'' said David L. Sokol, who took over as chief of NetJets this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. KEVIN FITZSIMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Warren E. Buffett, a NetJets user, has posed with his friend Bill Gates in NetJets ads and has endorsed private jet travel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BUDGETS (74%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); WRITERS (62%)

COMPANY: NETJETS INC (92%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%); BILL GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009



115 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1835 words

HEADLINE: Altered States: Reflecting on State Medical Marijuana Laws

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Considering issues related to the legalization of medical marijuana in some states. 

 BODY:
Overview | What are the ramifications of the legalization of marijuana for medical purposes? In this lesson, students consider the issues related to the use of medical marijuana in the 13 states where it is legal. They research relevant issues and then have a panel discussion about their own state's medicinal marijuana laws.
Materials | Index cards or strips of paper, computers with Internet access and projector, research materials.
Note to teachers: This lesson is about a potentially thorny and polarizing issue: the decriminalization of marijuana for medicinal purposes in 13 states, and the federal government's recent decision to no longer prosecute people who use and distribute marijuana legally in those states. 
Before starting the lesson, to help students stay on task, you may want to establish certain "givens" such as the fact that recreational marijuana use by people who do not have prescriptions is still illegal in all states and at the federal level. Depending on your students' maturity level and the dynamics in to your classroom, you may also wish to establish ground rules to ensure that discussions stay respectful and productive.
This lesson is intended as an interdisciplinary inquiry-based activity in which students choose or are assigned a social, legal, behavioral, economic or ethical issue related to medicinal marijuana to research. Adapt and focus the lesson as needed to suit your curriculum. For example, for a health or science focus, you may want to draw from the Learning Network lessons Substance Use or Abuse? and Constant Craving.
We invite you to use the comment box below to share with us, and your teaching colleagues who also use this blog, your experiences teaching about medical marijuana.
Warm-Up | Distribute copies of the K/W/L graphic organizer to students. Ask them to write in one or two of the boxes in the K column what they know, or think they know, about medicinal marijuana. Then have them write one or more questions that express what they want to know about it in the W column. To help them get started, you might ask: Which states allow medicinal marijuana? For what conditions is it prescribed?
Distribute an index card or strip of paper to each student. Have them write one of their "I know or think I know" statements and one "what I want to know" questions. Tell them not to write their names. Collect the cards or strips and share the statements and questions with the group. On the board, create a running list of students' W column questions; you might want to create a class-wide K/W/L chart using our sheet on a SmartBoard or a large sheet of chart paper.
Tell students they will continue to add to their K and W columns as they watch the 2008 Times video "The Marijuana State." Encourage students to write down anything that seems important or surprising and to make any necessary corrections to their K columns. (You may want to introduce or review main terms, like dispensary or cannabis, as defined in a reputable source, like HowStuffWorks.com.)
When the video ends, give students time to reread what they have written and finish their W column questions. Have students share what they have written in both columns. If students are reluctant to share, ask such questions as these: How long has medical marijuana been legal in California? How do patients obtain it? What loopholes seem to exist in California state laws? How has the state benefited economically from the legalization of medical marijuana? Accordingly, make adjustments to the class chart to ensure that all information in the K column is correct before proceeding.
Ask: What other issues arise from the legalization of medical marijuana at the state level? If necessary, you may wish to prompt students to ponder issues related to health and safety, ethics, regulation and so on.
Related | The introduction to the Oct. 19, 2009, post "A New Course on Medicinal Marijuana?" on the Room for Debate blog states that:
The Justice Department announced on Monday that federal drug agents will no longer arrest or prosecute people who are legally using, selling or supplying medical marijuana in the states that allow it.
"It will not be a priority to use federal resources to prosecute patients with serious illnesses or their caregivers who are complying with state laws on medical marijuana," Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement when he released the new guidelines. But, Mr. Holder said, "we will not tolerate drug traffickers who hide behind claims of compliance with state law to mask activities that are clearly illegal."
In this feature, six experts debate the significance of this change in federal drug policy and what it will mean for local and state law enforcement.
Read the entire feature with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Why does Tom Riley believe the new ruling will lead to confusion regarding the federal government's role in enforcing drug laws?
        
How does Richard N. Van Wickler think the war on drugs in America is going? Does he think the new federal ruling will help or hurt efforts to reduce crime?
        
What alternative to marijuana use does Henry I. Miller recommend for patients? Why?
        
What does Joseph D.McNamara believe is at risk when people are prosecuted for marijuana-related offenses?
        
What does Susan Manheimer say is California's biggest law enforcement challenge regarding medicinal marijuana?
Activity | Give students a few minutes to reflect on the article, adding to the K and W columns of their K/W/L charts. Have them look closely at their completed W columns and generate more ideas about the issues that arise from the legalization of marijuana for medical purposes. As a class, generate a list of topics, which may include some or all of the following:

        
Age minimums for medical marijuana prescriptions and use.
        
Psychological and chemical dependence.
        
Marijuana as a "gateway" to other drugs.
        
Safety and dangers, like driving under the influence of marijuana.
        
Social problems, like "grow houses" in neighborhoods, users' decreased productivity, etc.
        
Medical risks vs. health benefits.
        
Legal loopholes and abuse of the law; law enforcement.
        
Lack of F.D.A. approval; regulation, labeling and safety.
        
Tax revenues, job creation and other economic ramifications.
Have students turn each topic into one or more questions. For example, "medical risks vs. health benefits" can generate questions like: "What are the health hazards associated with marijuana use?" "What are the documented medicinal benefits of marijuana use?" "For what medical conditions is the drug prescribed?" "What research is being done on the health benefits and risks of marijuana use?"
Have pairs or small groups of students choose one of these questions to research; encourage students to let their research topics and questions narrow to greater specificity as they work. Direct students to begin with Times Topics: Marijuana and Medical Marijuana or Procon.org's "Should Marijuana Be a Medical Issue?" They should also use classroom and library resources in addition to Web sites.
Review, if necessary, strategies for gauging the reliability of information on Web sites; recommend that students check the sources of all information and that they double-check anything they learn from the literature of advocacy groups. Relevant Learning Network lesson plans include Topics of The Times, Is the Internet a Web of Deceit? and Searching With Certainty.
When research is complete, have students present their research to the class. You may also assign a written report to be turned in after the presentations or have the class create a collaborative resource, like a wiki, for information-sharing. During the information session, listeners should complete the L column with information they learned from their classmates' presentations.
Close with a reflective discussion about the ethical, legal, health and scientific, civic and other issues and questions associated with medical marijuana. Ask: What did you learn that surprised you? What questions and concerns do you still have? Alternatively, have students submit their reflections anonymously on index cards or paper strips to be read aloud.
Going Further | Students use what they have learned to inform an evaluation of your state's laws regarding medicinal marijuana. After reviewing the state's laws, they should write a statement explaining why they agree or disagree with the current laws and arguing for them to be retained or changed, drawing on research to make their arguments.
When students have finished, place them in two groups, and , based on the statements that they wrote.
Lead a panel discussion, encouraging all students to share their views and make their arguments. You may wish to provide students with a copy of our Debatable Issues handout (PDF) to track the points made during the discussion.
Be sure to probe for nuances and specifics during the discussion; for example, a student arguing for legalization of medical marijuana should be prompted to talk about how loose or restrictive the laws should be, perhaps referring to California law for point of reference.
Bring the discussion to a close by asking for final statements from both camps.
Standards | From McREL, for grades six to 12:
Civics
1 - Understands ideas about civic life, politics and government.
3 - Understands the sources, purposes and functions of law, and the importance of the rule of law for the protection of individual rights and the common good.
15 - Understands how the United States Constitution grants and distributes power and responsibilities to national and state government and how it seeks to prevent the abuse of power.
21 - Understands the formation and implementation of public policy.
25 - Understands issues regarding personal, political and economic rights.
Health
2 - Knows environmental and external factors that affect individual and community health.
8 - Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of diseases.
9 - Understands aspects of substance use and abuse.
Language Arts
1 - Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
2 - Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
3 - Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions.
4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
5 - Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
7 - Uses reading skills and strategies to understand and interpret a variety of informational text.
8 - Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
9 - Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.
Thinking and Reasoning
1 - Understands and applies the basic principles of presenting an argument.
3 - Effectively uses mental processes that are based on identifying similarities and differences.
6 - Applies decision-making techniques.
Working With Others
1 - Contributes to the overall effort of a group.
4 - Displays effective interpersonal communication skills.

        
Dec. 5, 1933 | Ratification of 21st Amendment Ends Prohibition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (96%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (94%); DECRIMINALIZATION (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ETHICS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (51%) medical marijuana; state law; Academic Skills; American Government; Civics; Crime; Current Events; Drug Use; Health; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Personal Health; Persuasive Writing; Research Skills; Science; Social Studies; The Human Body; Thinking Skills

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011



116 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Ethanol and Smog: A Matter of Our Health

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''E.P.A. Says It Expects to Raise Amount of Ethanol Allowed in Fuel Blends to 15%'' (Business Day, Dec. 2): 
 As the Environmental Protection Agency makes plans to raise the amount of ethanol allowed in fuel blends, there is a critical health and environmental issue to consider: burning ethanol/gasoline mixtures produces volatile organic compounds, like formaldehyde, precursors of smog. 
 Smog (ground-level ozone) is toxic to the lining of the lungs and traps heat, worsening the ''urban heat island effect'' whereby the average temperatures are 7 degrees Fahrenheit above rural areas, making urban heat waves particularly lethal. Burning biofuels thus increases vulnerability to climate change and the accompanying increase in heat waves.
 The best transport solutions are not alternative liquid fuels (from biomass, tar sands or coal). Electric vehicles, plugged into cleanly powered smart grids, and healthy cities linked by light rails, are a complementary set of solutions that serve adaptation and mitigation (climate stabilization), and come with enormous health, economic and environmental co-benefits.
 We must learn to burn less of everything and leave fossil fuels in the ground.
 Paul R. Epstein Boston, Dec. 2, 2009
 The writer, a doctor, is associate director of the Center for Health and the Global Environment at Harvard Medical School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOG (91%); ETHANOL (91%); BIOMASS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%); ALDEHYDES (56%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (53%); OIL SANDS (53%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (53%)

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL CO (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (68%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



117 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: The Jobless Rate May Have Hit Its Peak

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The peak in unemployment in the United States has probably passed, according to one economic indicator that has proved reliable in all 10 previous recessions since World War II.
 If it is correct, it indicates that the recovery from the 2007-9 recession will be very different from the ''jobless'' recoveries after the last two recessions, when the unemployment rate continued to rise for many months after the recession officially ended. 
 That indicator is part of the monthly survey done by the Institute for Supply Management, in which manufacturing companies are asked if their business is getting better or worse. 
 The data was released earlier this week, before the government reported on Friday that the unemployment rate had fallen to 10 percent in November, from 10.2 percent the previous month. If the indicator is accurate, the October figure will prove to be the high rate for this cycle.
 The I.S.M figures showed that for the fourth consecutive month, more companies thought business was getting better than believed it was getting worse.
 A part of that survey asks whether companies are adding or subtracting workers. It showed more companies hiring than firing in both October and November.
 In the past, two such months of gains in the I.S.M. employment component always came after the recession was later determined to have ended, and usually after the unemployment rate had begun to decline. The only exception was in the recession that ended in February 1961. Then, the unemployment rate peaked in May 1961, which was the also the second month that the I.S.M. employment indicator showed growth in manufacturing employment. 
 Before this cycle, the I.S.M. indicator has never showed consecutive gains before the unemployment rate hit its cyclical high.
 In recoveries before 1990, employment usually came back soon after the recession ended. But that did not happen after the recessions of 1990-91 and 2001, and there has been considerable fear that this recovery could follow the same course.
 If it does not, one reason may be that the firing of people at the height of the recession was severe, as the credit squeeze last fall led companies to panic and cut costs wherever they could. That could have left the companies without enough workers to deal with even a modest uptick in business.
 In the eight months after September 2008 -- the month that Lehman Brothers failed -- the unemployment rate rose 3.2 percentage points, to 9.4 percent. That was the largest gain over such a period since 1975, when the 1973-75 recession was drawing to a close.
 The National Bureau of Economic Research has not yet ruled on whether the recession that began in December 2007 has ended. But many economists say they think the bureau will eventually determine that the bottom was reached sometime in the late summer or fall of this year.
 The early 1990s recession ended in March 1991, when the unemployment rate was 7.8 percent. But that rate kept rising, and did not peak until June 1992, at 8.8 percent. The I.S.M. indicator, however, did not confirm that employment was growing until April and May of 1994.
 After the 2001 recession, which officially ended in November of that year with the unemployment rate at 5.5 percent, the jobless rate did not peak until June 2003, at 6.2 percent. The I.S.M. indicator finally turned positive at the end of 2003.
 The I.S.M. numbers are weighted so that any number above 50 shows growth, and any number under 50 shows declines. Numbers far above or below 50 indicate that most companies are reporting the same trend. The employment indicator in November was 50.8, down from 53.1 in October and an indication that only a few more companies said they were adding workers than said they were reducing employment.
 One possible caveat is that manufacturing has been declining in importance in the American economy. The I.S.M. survey of service companies does not show employment growing, and a reluctance of such companies to hire could offset any gains in manufacturing. But manufacturing employment has traditionally lagged other parts of the economy in coming out of recessions, and it seems unlikely it will have reversed positions this time.
 The reports by manufacturers that more are hiring than firing has not yet been confirmed by the Labor Department's establishment survey. It found that 41,000 manufacturing jobs were lost in November. There have been no monthly increases since November 2007, but the declines are now smaller than they were when unemployment was rising rapidly.
 Even if the unemployment rate has peaked, long-term unemployment remains a major problem. The number of unemployed workers who have been out of work for less than five weeks has fallen to 2.8 million. That figure is down by a quarter since it peaked in January.
 But the number of workers who have been without a job for more than 26 weeks rose to 5.9 million in November, the highest ever and more than double the number in January.
 The median duration of unemployment is up to 20.2 weeks, and the average figure is now 28.5 weeks. Both are records, indicating that those who are finding jobs are not the people who have been out of work for a long time.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: One Indicator Suggests a Turnaround May Be Coming: The Institute for Supply Management's employment index is a measure of whether manufacturing companies are adding or subtracting workers. Index levels above 50 show that more workers are being added than subtracted. In past recoveries since World War II, two consecutive months of gains in the I.S.M. index have always come after the recession was later determined to have ended, and usually after the unemployment rate had begun to decline. Before this cycle, the I.S.M. index has never showed consecutive gains before the unemployment rate hit its cyclical high. (Sources: Institute for Supply Management and Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics and National Bureau of Economic Research) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STATISTICS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



118 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: G.I.'s Learning to Stand Down as Iraqis Step In

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: KIRKUK, Iraq 

 BODY:
The soldiers of Battery B were on a routine walk through a downtown market when they heard the noise: a low crack that was followed by a plume of black smoke 500 yards away. The soldiers' attention sharpened, their assault weapons swung at the ready. A few months ago, they would have been on the move by now. 
 But Lt. Christopher Freeman ordered them to stand down. 
 ''They want us to stay away,'' he said, referring to his counterparts in the Iraqi police force. Under an agreement that went into effect on July 1, the American forces could not go to the scene unless the Iraqis asked. So the soldiers continued their canvass, the smoke streaming in the near distance. 
 ''You want to react,'' said Lieutenant Freeman, of the Third Battalion, 82nd Field Artillery. ''You want to make sure no one's hurt. But this is how we do things now. It's not our fight.'' 
 For American soldiers in most of Iraq -- even here in one of the nation's most unsettled cities -- this is the new reality since July 1, after United States forces pulled out of urban areas and changed their role from conducting combat missions to aiding the local police and the military. Soldiers here recited the new mantra: they were here just to support and train; the fight belonged to the Iraqis now -- the essential condition, after nearly seven years, for American troops to go home. 
 Training local troops was an early goal in Iraq and is now the linchpin of President Obama's plan to begin to withdraw soldiers from Afghanistan in 18 months. It is one of many similarities between the wars, though many conditions are different. [News analysis, A8.]
 Here in Iraq, training has proved difficult and often chimerical. The Bush administration had hoped to hand over security to the Iraqis almost immediately after the invasion in 2003, only to find that Iraqi troops were ill equipped and often either targets or instruments of sectarian violence.
 Now, as America prepares to remove most troops by next summer, routine missions like Battery B's illuminate the sometimes creaky progress of the forces on whom Iraq's future security rests. But at some point, Americans and Iraqis alike had to decide what was good enough.
 The battery's new support role marked a philosophical shift from 2007, when Gen. David H. Petraeus, then the top American commander here, made protecting the populace the highest priority. The new priorities are more diffuse: to enable local forces; to enhance their standing in the community; to spur economic development; and to improve inter-ethnic relations. 
 Soldiers in B and other units said they now had a role for which they were not trained, with more down time, limited movement outside the base and missions that often consisted of standing around while their officers exchanged notes with Iraqi counterparts. 
 Some itched to go to Afghanistan, where the small number of trained local troops still meant an active combat role for Americans. Others battled boredom. 
 On a recent mission, soldiers from the Fourth Squadron, Ninth Cavalry Regiment drove cautiously through an intersection. 
 ''That right there is the peak of our excitement, trying to flag the traffic to a stop,'' said Staff Sgt. Homero Bazaldua, of San Antonio. The unit had not seen combat since arriving in Kirkuk in July.
 For a fighting force whose members enlisted during wartime or re-enlisted after active tours, the new footing has required adjustment. 
 ''I stopped trying to explain what we do, because it's almost impossible to explain,'' said Lt. Eric Dixon, also of the Fourth Squadron. ''Everyone has in their head an idea what's going on, and then when you tell them what's really going on, they say, that doesn't make any sense. It's the Iraqis completely in the lead and us just in support.''
 Asked if it was better this way, Lieutenant Dixon, of Anacoco, La., said: ''It's hard to explain. Like this mission -- we like it, but it's boring to us. But this is a much more rewarding mission than kicking down doors every day. 
 ''We get to see the progress of what we're doing,'' he said. ''There's times we'll go on missions and they'll say, 'We don't need you. We'll take care of this and give you a report.' There's no better measure of success than that.''
 For Battery B, the day's mission began with an escort by the Iraqi police, a requirement for American troops entering Kirkuk. After a brief training session, the unit's four Humvees rumbled to a muddy lot where the American troops hoped to finance a soccer field. 
 Such projects have become crucial to America's withdrawal, Lt. Col. Christopher Norrie said. A successful mission now might mean ''one person receiving a microgrant that enables him to open a barbershop or a salon,'' he said.
 ''That barbershop is a vital link toward development in the area, and enabling economic vitality to folks who previously did not have that,'' Colonel Norrie said. 
 Kirkuk, an oil-rich region north of Baghdad, has been at the center of the stalemate over Iraq's election laws, as Kurds, Arabs and Turkmens claim primacy within the region. Yet violence is down here, and, except for a spike this summer, it has continued to drop since July 1, according to American records. 
 In this transition, Bravo battery's experience shows the strains that arise when theory meets a car bomb in a crowded market. 
 Instead of rushing to the explosion -- protecting the populace -- the soldiers continued on their walk, prodding the Iraqi policemen accompanying them to talk to shopkeepers about the area. The Humvees crept alongside. To the Iraqi officers, the Americans' presence made the work more dangerous. 
 ''The truth?'' said Muhammad Khalif, one of the officers. ''We'd be safer if just the Iraqi police came. Sometimes, if we work with coalition forces, some people feel the Iraqi police are in the hands of the coalition.''
 By the time Battery B got permission to go to the bomb scene, traffic had snarled, so an hour passed before the soldiers reached the site of the explosion, which killed six people and ripped through three buildings. Though the Americans had trained Iraqi police officers to clear crowds from a crime scene, dozens of people wandered through. 
 Sgt. Sean McLaren from Browns Mills, N.J., wanted to clear the site. Insurgents often plan second explosions to kill the people who respond to the first. 
 But when he and others started to move people away, Sgt. Maj. Carlos Soto-Bonilla yelled at them to stop. 
 ''Let's talk to whoever's in charge and let them handle it,'' he said. ''We have to put an Iraqi face on this, because if not, we will never leave this country.'' 
 More people walked through, disturbing potential evidence. Water from a broken pipe flowed into the five-foot crater left by the bomb. 
 ''Do you have tape to block off the site?'' Sergeant Major Soto-Bonilla asked an Iraqi officer. 
 The answer: ''We have it at the station, but we came here in a hurry.'' 
 In the Humvees afterward, some soldiers were dissatisfied with the Iraqis' response. It had taken them too long to arrive, and too many people remained at risk. 
 ''The I.P.'s don't get it,'' Sergeant McLaren said, referring to the Iraqi police. 
 ''We stood there way too long. They could've set that V-Bied off so coalition forces would respond, then a sniper could shoot at us,'' he said, using the acronym for vehicle-borne improvised explosive device. ''We try to train them up to train themselves, but we can't save the world.'' 
 But for Colonel Norrie, the results, while imperfect, were a model of success at this stage of the conflict, as American troops prepare to leave. 
 ''It was an Iraqi solution to an Iraqi problem, and to allow them to do that is very important,'' he said. ''The people out there saw their security forces clearly in charge. We all fall short in the eyes of the Lord, but the main thing is that it was an Iraqi response, and that's more important than anything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A G.I. and an Iraqi policeman at the scene of a bombing, where some Americans thought the site could have been managed better. (A1)
An American from Battery B helps an Iraqi policeman after a bombing in Kirkuk. In urban areas, the Americans need Iraqi permission to respond to attacks.
 G.I.'s with Battery B, who have assumed a training role in Iraq's urban areas, during a visit to a police station in Kirkuk. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAP: Iraqi and American forces are learning their roles in Kirkuk. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); DAVID PETRAEUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



119 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Criticizes Wall St. Pay

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
In an interview Friday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner criticized the record bonuses set to be paid by big banks this year and challenged claims by Goldman Sachs that it would have survived without government aid. 
 Taking aim at what he called ''an era of irresponsibly high bonuses,'' Mr. Geithner said all banks, even those that have repaid government aid, needed to restrain the amount they pay their leaders and tie compensation to long-term goals.
 ''We want to see fundamental constraints on how senior executives are paid at these institutions,'' Mr. Geithner said in an interview for Bloomberg Television's ''Political Capital With Al Hunt,'' scheduled to be broadcast over the weekend. ''It is very important that we change the way these executives are paid, the form of compensation, this year.''
 Lavish pay on Wall Street has become a flashpoint in Washington as President Obama has blamed compensation tied to excessive risk-taking for fueling the financial crisis. 
 In the interview, Mr. Geithner also disputed claims made by Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, that his company would have survived the financial crisis last year without federal assistance. ''The entire U.S. financial system and all the major firms in the country, and even small banks across the country, were at that moment at the middle of a classic run, a classic bank run,'' Mr. Geithner said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



120 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Rock and Roll Annex Is Not Here to Stay

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Barely a year after it opened in SoHo, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum Annex in New York City is closing. The parent hall of fame in Cleveland confirmed on Friday that its affiliate, a $9 million investment envisioned as part of a broader national expansion, would shut its doors on Jan. 3.
 No explanation for the closing was offered in the brief news release issued on Thursday by S2BN Entertainment, one of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's partners in the venture, or by a spokeswoman for the Cleveland museum. But the 25,000-square-foot annex opened last November, just as the economic crisis was gaining force, and took a three-year lease in a relatively inconspicuous basement space below an Old Navy store at 76 Mercer Street. 
 ''There's no doubt the economy factored into our leaving,'' Caren Bell, a spokeswoman for S2BN Entertainment, said on Friday afternoon. ''But over all, we had a good year. We're moving on to the next phase and exploring opportunities to tour the exhibition.'' 
 When asked if the annex was profitable, she repeated, ''We had a good year.'' 
 The museum took on three partners in the annex, and under the terms of the governing agreement, those partners were to finance and operate the project, with the Cleveland hall of fame retaining oversight of all aspects of the operation. S2BN Entertainment is led by Michael Cohl, who recently became the lead producer of a future production of ''Spider-Man'' on Broadway and who is a former chairman of the Live Nation concert promotion and management group. The other participants are Jam Exhibition and Running Subway, which have produced museum exhibitions and musical theater and multimedia concert programs.
 Margaret Thresher, a spokeswoman for the Hall of Fame in Cleveland, said that its partners had decided to ''explore similar opportunities to tour this concept or place it in other cities.'' 
 In contrast to the Hall of Fame in Cleveland, which offers a general history of rock 'n' roll, the annex has a focus on New York's role in the development of rock and pop culture. A 1957 Chevy of Bruce Springsteen's, teenage correspondence between Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel, one of Bob Dylan's harmonicas, memorabilia from the punk mecca CBGB, and the oversize suit David Byrne wore in the Talking Heads film ''Stop Making Sense'' are among the items on display.
 The annex also has a special presentation called ''John Lennon: The New York Years,'' and it opened with a show devoted to the Clash. 
 Initial projections talked of the annex's drawing in around half a million visitors a year, but Ms. Bell declined to provide figures on actual attendance or revenues. ''We are not giving out numbers,'' she said. 
 General admission to the annex is $26.50, compared with $22 at the main museum in Cleveland, which also offers more generous discounts for children and those over 65 than the annex does. Visitors typically spend four or five hours looking at the Cleveland exhibits, whereas an estimate of the time required for a full viewing at the annex, even with its high-technology features and club ambience as lures, is less than two hours. 
 ''In New York you have to prove yourself, whether you're a sports team or a museum,'' Joel Peresman, president of the Hall of Fame Foundation, told The New York Times last November, just before the annex opened. ''We have an important story to tell. And you have to have something interesting and compelling. Otherwise, New Yorkers are going to blow it off.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum Annex NYC will stop selling tickets on Jan. 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); EVENT MARKETING (66%); MUSICAL THEATER (63%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (63%); MUSIC (63%); THEATER (50%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



121 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Self-Storage King Takes a Moment to Savor His Victory Over Columbia

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Outside, in the sharp wintry light that makes you squint when the No. 1 train pops out of the tunnel past 122nd Street, the banners were still flying high. Among them was the one that reads, ''Stop Columbia! We Won't Be Pushed Out!'' 
 Inside, in the softer, dimmer light of an office that has 10 lights in the ceiling but no windows, Nicholas Sprayregen was working his way through an in-box suddenly filled with e-mail messages from people he did not know. ''Thank you for standing up and fighting to keep the American dream alive,'' one wrote. Another said, ''It's like David versus Goliath, and you're David.'' 
 Mr. Sprayregen, the self-storage impresario who has been fighting Columbia University's expansion plan, spent much of Friday reveling in a court ruling that had gone his way. It said that New York State could not use eminent domain on Columbia's behalf to clear parcels along Broadway that Mr. Sprayregen owns.
 So, after a five-year fight that he said had cost him more than $2 million, was he celebrating?
 ''I wouldn't say it's a victory dance,'' said Mr. Sprayregen, 47, who runs self-storage warehouses in squat brick buildings where Columbia wants to build shiny new high rises. ''It's more a big sigh of relief.''
 The ruling by a panel of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, released Thursday, said the state's condemnation procedure in taking land for the Columbia project, in the Manhattanville neighborhood, was unconstitutional. Justice James M. Catterson, who wrote the majority opinion, was withering in his criticism of way the state agency that approved the use of eminent domain had reached its decision.
 The agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, said it would appeal the ruling to the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals. Mr. Sprayregen said that no matter who won there, the case would almost certainly go to the United States Supreme Court. 
 Two weeks ago, the Court of Appeals ruled that the state had the power to use eminent domain in taking private property on behalf of the developer behind the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. 
 In Manhattanville, Columbia, which owns or controls 61 of the 67 parcels on the 17 acres it wants to build on, issued a statement Friday saying it was going ahead with the project. It said demolition and ''other preconstruction work has already begun and can continue.'' 
 Mr. Sprayregen spends his days a stone's throw from the Columbia campus, but has no old-school ties. He did his undergraduate work at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., earned an M.B.A. from New York University and spent a year at the London School of Economics. He took over his father's storage business in 1990.
 He said the first he heard of the expansion plan was in the summer of 2004, when Columbia officials invited him to lunch.
 ''It was a pleasant meeting,'' he said, ''but a little strange: 'Are you interested in selling your buildings?' '' (Columbia officials noted that the first public announcement had been 18 months earlier, and that by the summer of 2004 the plan had gone before Community Board 9.) 
 ''They were going around trying to buy buildings,'' he said, ''and before long the offer changed: 'If you don't sell, you'll face condemnation.' I looked on that as offensive, coming from an institution as large and powerful as Columbia.''
 He said he had offered to trade property he owned on one side of Broadway for property Columbia owned on the other. ''I said, 'Why don't we do a swap?' '' he recalled. ''That went absolutely nowhere with the school.''
 He pulled out a copy of the inaugural address by Columbia's president, Lee C. Bollinger, in 2002, and read several passages. In one, Mr. Bollinger described the university's need to expand and said, ''I will do everything in my power to build this new Columbia.''
 ''That almost sounds like it's coming from a religious figure,'' Mr. Sprayregen said. ''Do they think this is fallow land with no one on it, and they're settlers and there are a bunch of illiterate Indians here and it's their God-given responsibility to tame us and take control?''
 So how much money would he have taken from Columbia?
 ''I never really got that far,'' he said. ''The point was, I attempted to compromise. I didn't want to succumb to eminent domain abuse for the benefit of a private institution.''
 Mr. Sprayregen has made his position loudly and clearly for several years in the banners he has hung on the faces of his buildings along Broadway. He said Friday that he was well aware that the Court of Appeals had ruled the other way in the Atlantic Yards case. But judges have been known to catch people off guard. ''I didn't necessarily think,'' he said, ''that we were going to win at this level.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicholas Sprayregen at one of the buildings that he owns on Broadway, and that Columbia wants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND MCCREA JONES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF STORAGE (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); PROPERTY LAW (87%); APPROVALS (63%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



122 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: The Value of Siblings, Sewn Tightly Together

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Though they are brother and sister, Ana Marte and Luis Manuel Casado were cast in different directions when their parents split up. She went to live with grandparents. He went to live with an uncle.
 They both grew up in the Dominican Republic and saw each other frequently as the years passed, but were never close. Then, after Ms. Marte had two children of her own, something happened that forever intertwined their lives: Mr. Casado gave Ms. Marte one of his kidneys.
 To this day, Ms. Marte, 29, doesn't know what caused her kidneys to fail, but she recalls the first time she noticed something was wrong. It was three years ago, after she had married and moved to Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and while she was visiting the Dominican Republic so that her relatives could meet her firstborn, Angel, who is now 4. She said that she felt dizzy and fatigued and decided to go to a doctor to see what was wrong. 
 She was told that one of her kidneys had atrophied and the other was overworked. To complicate matters, a month later she found out that she was pregnant again.
 So began the unraveling of Ms. Marte's health and personal life. She had to quit her job as a supermarket cashier and the English classes she had been taking since arriving in the city in 2003. She had to keep daily doctor's appointments for herself and soon also for her daughter, Maxiel, who was born 12 weeks premature, weighing just 2 pounds.
 ''I never lost faith we would both be all right,'' Ms. Marte said.
 But a day after Maxiel's birth, Ms. Marte heard that her kidneys had failed and that to survive, she would need a transplant. A doctor asked if she had a relative who might be willing to be a donor. She remembered that Mr. Casado had once told her that he would give her a kidney if she needed one. So she called him.
 ''Were you joking?'' Ms. Marte asked him. 
 ''I don't have children yet and I want you to be able to raise yours,'' he replied, as she recalled it.
 On July 3, 2007, Ms. Marte and Mr. Casado were admitted to NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital for the transplant. 
 By then, Ms. Marte's husband was unemployed and caring alone for their children, both of whom have special needs. Eventually, the family had to leave their apartment because they could no longer afford it. They moved three times and along the way, the children's beds were damaged beyond repair, but Ms. Marte and her husband had no money to replace them.
 Meanwhile, Ms. Marte, who has a suppressed immune system, struggled with mundane tasks, like cooking, cleaning and bathing her children. Last year, she sought out the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of the beneficiary agencies of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The agency assigned her a helper, who spends 30 hours a week doing what Ms. Marte cannot. Three months ago, Ms. Marte and her husband rented a two-bedroom apartment in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, in a yellow-brick building under the elevated tracks. 
 In the room their children share is a black bunk bed bought with the $438 Ms. Marte received from the Neediest Cases Fund.
 ''The kids have their bed,'' Ms. Marte said. ''Our apartment feels like a home.''
 She needs medication daily, her electric bill is late, and she still must rely on public assistance. But Ms. Marte has taken a small step toward regaining her independence: She is volunteering at a nonprofit group that helps other immigrants whose lives are upended by illness.
 And whenever the opportunity arises, she will share some advice. ''If you can give a piece of yourself to a friend or a relative who needs a transplant, do it,'' Ms. Marte says. ''It will change your life and their life, too.'' 
 Previously recorded $2,210,454 Recorded Thursday 29,220 Total $2,239,674 Last year to date $2,424,278 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maxiel, 3, and Angel Marte, 4, in their Brooklyn apartment on a bunk bed purchased with money from the Neediest Cases Fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: How to Help: Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online at NYCharities.org/neediest or at nytimes.com/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. To delay may mean to forget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); GRANDPARENTS (78%)

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



123 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: A New Way to Get Rich: Add a Letter to Your Name

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
Sanjay B. Jumaani has your number -- and for a fee he can offer you an upgrade. 
 Mr. Jumaani is one of this bustling city's most famous numerologists. He studies dates of birth and other numbers associated with his clients -- who include Bollywood stars, famed cricket players and corporations -- and then suggests changes to names, wardrobe or jewelry that can improve their fortunes. 
 After seeking help from him and other numerologists, actors have added or dropped letters from their names -- the actor Ajay Devgan recently became Ajay Devgn. Filmmakers have deliberately misspelled the titles of their movies -- ''Singh is Kinng'' was a recent hit. And companies have redesigned brands and logos. 
 Recently, a travel company started a luxury train service, The Indian Maharaja - Deccan Odyssey. Mr. Jumaani had recommended adding the word ''The'' and hyphenating the name. Sajivv Trehaan, who heads the tour company the Travel Corporation (India), said the maiden trip was sold out and he believes Mr. Jumaani's wordsmithing helped. He says Mr. Jumaani's counsel has been a key to many of his business successes.
 ''The world has changed for me since then,'' Mr. Trehaan said about the time seven years ago when Mr. Jumaani suggested he change his name from Sajiv Trehan. ''We were a small company at the time. Now we have seven offices overseas. And I live in Switzerland.''
 In addition to the rich and famous, many average Indians also consult Mr. Jumaani and his competitors -- of which there are many. The advice these new-age counselors offer is not cheap. Mr. Jumaani charges individual clients 4,200 rupees, which is about $90 or roughly one month's pay for household servants. Businesses pay a lot more. Mr. Jumaani won't say how much.
 In a country where privation is prevalent, people have long sought comfort and hope from astrologers and gurus of varying stripes. Now, modern Indians who want a bigger slice of a growing economy are turning to a new breed of soothsayers who are different from the gurus of their parents' generation. Changing names or ordering license plates with certain auspicious numbers has become accepted practices in recent years. 
 Gone are the complicated astrological charts consulted by the older generation of counselors. The new soothsayers offer advice that uses mathematical formulas, market themselves through infomercials, write newspaper columns and put up spiffy Web sites. Some of the advice is reminiscent of the ''positive thinking'' movement in the United States. For instance, Niraj Mancchanda, another famous Mumbai-based numerologist, offers handwriting analysis and promises that ''if we change our handwriting, our thinking changes.''
 Critics say that numerology and its offshoots are expensive distractions that lure people in with promises of a brighter future.
 ''This practice caters to people's craving to know, modify or improve their future,'' said Prabir Ghosh, an author who has debated astrologers and numerologists on Indian television. ''In this era of cutthroat competition intensified by the global recession people will do anything before going into a new venture.''
 Mr. Ghosh, who is the general secretary of the Science and Rationalists' Association of India, has said his group will pay numerologists, astrologers and other spiritual guides two million rupee ($43,000) if they prove that their practices work as advertised. He has made no payments so far. 
 Proponents of numerology counter that it, like religion, should require no proof because it's based on faith.
 ''If you have the faith, you believe in it,'' said Vipul Amrutlal Shah, the producer of ''Singh is Kinng.'' ''We in the cinema are gamblers. We don't know whether our gambles will pay off. It makes us a little superstitious.''
 According to Mr. Jumaani, people's personalities and destinies are shaped by the interplay of various numbers. Among the most important are numbers derived from birth dates, like the sum of the digits that make up the day of birth. Babies born on the 28th day of a month, for example, are said to have a good life ahead of them because 2 and 8 add up to 10, and 1 plus 0 equals 1. 
 One, three, five and six are considered auspicious numbers: Mr. Jumaani points out that Bill Gates was born on Oct. 28, 1955.
 Numbers correspond to the sun, the moon or a planet; one is the sun, two is the moon, three is Jupiter and so on.
 But people who are not born on a fortunate date need not despair. While he cannot change their birth dates, Mr. Jumaani said clients can benefit by changing their names. (He would not disclose how numbers are assigned to letters.) Wearing appropriate gems and colors can also change fortunes.
 ''We cannot give you Mr. Ambani's date of birth,'' he said referring to the Indian industrialist Mukesh Ambani, whose birthday adds up to one. ''But we can help you with your name.''
 He was to be on board The Indian Maharaja - Deccan Odyssey, the sold-out train, and offered consultations to passengers who paid $525 to $1,120 a night for the seven-day trip from Mumbai to Delhi, with stopped at the Taj Mahal and other sites along the way. Mr. Jumaani, 41, learned numerology from his father, Bansilal M. Jumaani, and says it helped him escape a dead-end 17-year career as a liquor distributor. He credits his success to his father's suggestion that he start using his middle initial. The elder Mr. Jumaani died in 2006.
 Mr. Jumaani works with his sister, Swetta Jumaani. His wife, Jhernna S. Jumaani, sells gems and jewelry to his clients. Her brand is named Gemz Bonnd Jewelz.
 Some who have changed their names said that their lives remain, well, unchanged. Shobhaa De, an author and columnist, added an extra ''a'' to her first name after the elder Mr. Jumaani asked her to in a letter, sent to her after she had mocked an actor who had changed his name. 
 ''I took it as a challenge, and added the 'a,' '' she said in an e-mail message. ''My signature looked a whole lot better. I stuck to it. But I have still to crack the Forbes list of billionaires.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 5 about numerology in India misspelled the first name of a travel company executive who credited a numerologist with many of his business successes, and also misidentified the company he heads. He is Sajivve Trehaan, not Sajivv, and he is head of the Luxury Trains and the Luxury Holidays, not the Travel Corporation of India.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sanjay Jumaani is a famous numerologist in Mumbai. (B1)
The numerologist Sanjay B. Jumaani in his Mumbai office. He charges individual clients about $90 for a consultation.
 Figures associated with a client are studied, then all sorts of advice is given. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); CRICKET (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); TRAINS (69%)

COMPANY: THOMAS COOK (INDIA) LTD (56%)

TICKER: THOMASCOOK (NSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%) INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



124 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: The Lost Weekend

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
The Senate is going to be in session all weekend, debating the big health care bill and arguing about which direction the cost-curve is heading. This is a positive development on two counts. It keeps senators off the streets while providing much-needed employment in the chart-making sector of our economy. 
 Or we could just lock them in a basement until they're done squabbling. Either way is good, but the basement option would have the advantage of covering some of the less-active debaters with an attractive coat of mildew. In any case, I guarantee you that the number of normal Americans who will pay attention can be numbered in the low single digits. 
 So as a public service to the nonlistening audience, let me give you a summary of the important action so far:
 ROUND ONE Republicans: Let's get rid of all the Medicare savings in the bill. Think of the seniors!
 Democrats: Yettaruttayetta.
 ROUND TWOMammograms! Everybody loves them. Can't have enough.
 ROUND THREERepublicans: Let's get rid of part of the Medicare savings in the bill. Think of the seniors!
 Democrats: Ruttayettarutta.
 Is that perfectly clear? Good. Now we will return to our regularly scheduled conversation. Did you see that hot reality show ''Hoarders'' on A&E the other night? What about that lady who hoarded her dead cats? If ''Hoarders'' gets superpopular, do you think lots of people will start putting dead cats in their living room just so they can get on TV and be famous? Maybe somebody will try to bring dead cats to a state dinner at the White House! Does the Secret Service have a plan to avert this?
 Sorry. I'll behave. Back to the health care bill.
 The Republicans are the fiscal conservatives in Congress, at least in the years when they aren't actually in power. They were never going to rally around an expensive new government program that fails to provide a single new market for corn-based products. 
 But you would expect them to try to push the whole project in the most economical direction possible.
 For instance, the bill would establish an independent commission on Medicare payment rates. This is a very big deal and you are going to have to take my word that health care economists fall over with excitement when it comes up.
 But the Senate Democrats' current version of the bill would only allow the panel experts to act when Medicare spending rises at a faster rate than other health care spending. Since health care spending has been going through the roof, we're talking about waiting until Medicare spending goes through the ozone layer.
 Obviously, this is an area where the Republicans would want to swing into action. And they did. They prepared an amendment eliminating the Medicare panel entirely. 
 In fact, G.O.P. senators appear to have amendments aimed at wiping out virtually all the cost-cutting the Democrats have put in the bill, including productivity adjustments and incentives for innovation in health care delivery.
 If they can't kill the bill completely, Republicans who are not from Maine seem intent on raising its price tag. While terrifying senior citizens in a cynical attempt to influence their vote in the next election cycle. Although I'm sure Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma just misspoke when he said: ''I have a message for you: You're going to die sooner.''
 On Friday, much of the debate was directed at Medicare Advantage. This is a program that flourished during the privatization craze. And like many attempts to save money by shoehorning private businesses into government programs, it wound up costing a ton. The Medicare Advantage policyholders cost the government 14 percent more than regular Medicare recipients, although they do often get extra benefits, sometimes including free Band-Aids or gym memberships.
 Now let us be fair. There are some good services in the Advantage mix, and gym memberships are in and of themselves a fine thing. But you would think the political party that eviscerated the Clinton stimulus plan over an appropriation for late-night basketball programs would really be ticked at the idea that we're providing a 14 percent subsidy to some Medicare recipients so they can have access to Stairmasters.
 Au contraire. In fact, on Thursday Senator Orrin Hatch proposed an amendment that would eliminate the entire $120 billion in Medicare Advantage savings from the bill. 
 There is no sane explanation for all this other than crass political calculation. On Thursday, Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat who's up for election next year, introduced an amendment specifically promising that Medicare recipients would not lose any of their current guaranteed benefits. It passed 100 to 0. Meanwhile, Colorado voters were getting robocalls from John McCain warning that the health care bill was going to cut their ''vital Medicare coverage.''
 Now, about those dead cats. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); CATS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CONSERVATISM (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Hoarders (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



125 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Recession Resolutions, Like New Year's, May Be Hard to Keep

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FOR years, my husband and I have been telling each other that we really should budget -- as in actually track the money coming in and going out -- as opposed to the half-hearted effort that has passed for our financial planning over the years.
 Sounds good, we agreed, and then did little about it. Until this last year, when, like millions of other Americans, we faced a job loss and a drop in income. Suddenly, the need to know how much we spent leapt to the top of the priority list.
 No surprise there. After all, nothing focuses the mind like an emergency. A health scare often gives that push to start eating right and exercising. A sobering incident makes us realize we should stop and appreciate life, not just race through it.
 But then the urgency passes. And we slip back. So I wonder -- do we ever really change? 
 ''Not unless we have to,'' says Carmen Reinhart, a professor of economics at the University of Maryland and co-author of the new book ''This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly'' (Princeton Press). 
 We may want to change our diets and spending habits or stop smoking or embrace a greener lifestyle. But it takes both a long time and a complex combination of factors -- often including some personal trauma, social stigma and government policy -- to promote any real transformation, say those who have studied the matter.
 Take the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which for many Americans was the most catastrophic event in their lifetimes. After the attacks, pundits predicted everything from a fundamental change in the national sense of humor to an American religious reawakening.
 Uh, no. Although political jokes by late-night comics dropped by 54 percent in the month after the attacks, according to the Center for Media and Public Affairs, by the following February they were up 38 percent from their pre-Sept. 11 averages. 
 And despite an immediate surge of people going to church, attendance was back to the pre-attack levels by January 2002, according to the Barna Group, which researches religious trends. And in the years after the attacks, Americans were no more likely to say their religious faith was very important or to describe themselves as ''deeply spiritual.''
 A national catastrophe may have a short-term effect on religious fervor, but ''what seems to have a more deep and lasting effect is a major life event -- the loss of a loved one, a serious illness or loss of a job or the birth of a child,'' said David Kinnaman, president of Barna.
 Maybe one calamity, no matter how frightening, is unlikely to fundamentally transform most people. But what about a continuing event -- a deep recession, say, like the one we have now? Will it change our behavior in any long-term way?
 It might. Using data gathered by the National Opinion Research Center's General Social Survey from 1972 to 2006, Paola Giuliano, an assistant professor of economics at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Antonio Spilimbergo of the International Monetary Fund looked at how serious recessions in different parts of the United States affected the people who lived there.
 Examining information from 50,000 individuals, Professor Giuliano found that those who were 18 to 25 years old when the recession occurred -- no matter what part of the country they lived in -- were more likely to believe certain tenets than those who didn't live through a severe recession, or those younger or older. They are more likely to believe that luck, as opposed to hard work, is the key to individual success, and that more government intervention is necessary to provide safety nets, even if that means higher taxes. Yet they also have less confidence in government.
 Although the last two may seem contradictory, Professor Giuliano said that people might attribute their economic troubles to the government, but also want and need assistance from government. 
 Those years from 18 to 25 are ''called the impressionable years -- it's the most important time for developing political and economic views,'' she said. It is also when most people are entering the work force. 
 It's difficult to predict what this portends for the future. In fact, it's even hard to foresee if more immediate, concrete behavior changes -- like stricter budgeting and more savings -- will last past the current recession. If history is any example, it won't.
 ''During the postwar years, what you see in a recession are blips,'' Professor Reinhart said. ''You get an increase in savings or a decline in debt for one or two years, and then it reverts back.''
 Rationing, shortages and patriotism during the war years meant people saved a lot of money. But once the war was over, the floodgates opened. According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the percentage of personal savings as part of disposable personal income in 1945 was 20.4 percent; in 1946 -- the year after the war ended -- it dropped to 9.6 percent. It generally ranged from 7 to 10 percent for the next several decades and reached almost 11 percent in 1982. 
 Since then, primarily because of the introduction of easy credit, we've become a nation of spenders, with savings hovering around 2 percent or even less, until trouble hit in 2008. We reached a 5.4 percent savings rate in the second quarter of 2009 -- but dropped down to 4.5 percent in the third quarter. 
 ''Since the war, we haven't strung together a period of time when the household savings rate really went up,'' Professor Reinhart said. And while many who went through the Depression and the war did absorb a mentality of saving, she pointed out that it was ingrained ''not over a year or two but over a 15-year period.'' 
 We may see modifications in people's spending and debt habits over the next few years, she said, but it is more likely to be a result of changes in the availability of credit, not a sudden national conversion to thrift.
 ''We might not see changes in people's willingness to borrow, but in their ability to borrow,'' she said.
 This is not to say that we can never change, or that we can't alter the culture of our society. It just takes a lot of work and time. Look at smoking, for example. The surgeon general first proclaimed unequivocally that smoking was bad for your health in 1964, when about 42 percent of American adults smoked. But people didn't stub out their cigarettes on the spot. The rate gradually declined as the government and anti-tobacco forces attacked smoking on a number of fronts -- banning cigarette commercials on television, placing warnings on cigarette packets, imposing high taxes on cigarettes and prohibiting smoking in restaurants and public spaces.
 Now, about 20 percent of adults smoke; the figure hovers around 16 percent in areas like New York City where stiff taxes mean a pack of cigarettes can cost $8 and smokers must navigate strict antismoking laws.
 ''What works is a comprehensive approach,'' said Thomas Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. ''We've changed from a society where people asked if you'd like a cigarette to one where people sheepishly ask, 'Do you mind if I smoke?' ''
 So will our family maintain its budget-conscious ways over the long term? I'll say yes, as long as we are forced to cope with the current financial situation. But if we win the lottery, all bets are off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getting Americans to save may be like getting them to give up cigarettes. Years after the surgeon general's warning, laws and public health campaigns are still chipping away at the smoking rate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RELIGION (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); SMOKING (69%); NUTRITION (69%); WRITERS (67%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



126 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Knowing What's Worth Paying For In Vitamins

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
WHEN I stock up on ibuprofen (my painkiller of choice), I typically buy a 500-count bottle of a store brand like Kirkland or Rite Aid. After all, ibuprofen is ibuprofen. Each pill costs me about 3 cents -- or only one-third the cost of 9-cent Advil.
 Yet, when it comes to vitamins -- which I take only when I feel run down -- I turn to name brands like Centrum or Nature Made. My thinking has been: Why mess around with quality when it comes to the essential ABCs? 
 But now that I've done some research, I might soon change my vitamin-buying ways. Read on to find out why. 
 Americans love vitamins. About half of adults take a daily multivitamin, according to industry data. And according to some theories, the economic downturn has inspired them to fortify themselves by swallowing more. 
 Sales over the last decade had been growing by about 4 percent annually. But this year, as more people are taking their health into their own hands, perhaps hoping to stave off doctor bills, vitamin sales are expected to grow by 8 percent to a total of $9.2 billion, according to Nutrition Business Journal, a market researcher and publisher. 
 About 42 percent of shoppers purchase their vitamins at natural and specialty retail outlets, like GNC and Whole Foods, according to the journal, while only 23 percent take the discount approach and buy their bottles at supermarkets and club stores. The other 35 percent buy through mail order or from a health care provider.
 Of course, it's controversial whether we should be taking vitamins at all. Recent studies have indicated that taking a multivitamin won't protect you from heart disease or cancer. And experts maintain that if you eat well, you don't need vitamin supplements. 
 ''The evidence shows that a healthy diet and exercise are the best way to ward off disease; a vitamin cannot replace those benefits,'' says Eric Rimm, associate professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health. 
 But what if you don't eat well or are chronically stressed out? Then, Professor Rimm says, there may be some benefit from taking a multivitamin. ''Certain subgroups, including women of child-bearing age attempting to get pregnant, may need specific supplements, like folic acid and omega-3,'' he added.
 As for the matter of cost: If you take only a daily multivitamin mainly as a medical insurance policy, it certainly won't hurt your health -- as long as you do not already eat a lot of fortified food. And it could help. But it will require spending some money. And if you take a multivitamin and a few individual vitamins and minerals, it's even more worth your while to make sure you're not paying more than you need to. 
 Here's how to get the most vitamin for the least money.
 USE ONLY WHAT YOU NEED Popping too many vitamin pills is not only a waste of money but can be bad for your health. Talk to your doctor about what added vitamins or minerals you might require; you can ask for a blood test to learn what you might be lacking. 
 For example, if you don't get enough vitamin D -- many people who live in the northern states or who wear sunscreen everyday are low on this crucial vitamin -- then buy just a D supplement. Standard multivitamins will probably not have the levels of D you require (many doctors suggest taking 1,000 to 2,000 international units a day). 
 If your doctor recommends a specific supplement, like omega-3, ask in what form you should be taking it. 
 FIND A REPUTABLE SOURCEVitamins and minerals are commodity items, and every manufacturer has access to the same ingredients. For that reason, researchers and scientists say paying more for a name brand won't necessarily buy you better vitamins. 
 ''When we measure levels of vitamins in the blood, we find the levels are the same whether the person was taking a generic brand or a name brand,'' says Dr. Rimm, who has been studying the effects of vitamins for 20 years. 
 That said, don't be too cheap. Purchase your vitamins from well-known retailers that do a brisk business and restock frequently, whether that's Costco or Drugstore.com. Vitamins lose their potency over time and must be stored at, or below, room temperature. If bottles are sitting on a shelf in warm room or in direct sunlight, they may degrade even before their expiration date.
 PRICE MAY NOT MEAN QUALITY While the Food and Drug Administration regulates vitamins as part of the nutritional supplement industry, it does not test them before they are put on the shelves. The F.D.A. places the responsibility on the manufacturer to ensure that its dietary supplement products are safe before they are marketed. All of which means that no matter what the price, quality is not assured. 
 ConsumerLab.com, a company based in White Plains that tests hundreds of vitamins each year, finds that 30 percent of multivitamins have a quality problem: the pills might have more or less of a stated ingredient, or they might not dissolve properly. 
 ''We haven't found any brand with a broad product line that makes every product well,'' says Dr. Tod Cooperman, president of the company. 
 Taking exception to such assertions is the vitamin industry's trade group, the Council for Responsible Nutrition. In response to questions, the council released a statement from Andrew Shao, a vice president for scientific and regulatory affairs. 
 Mr. Shao said that the F.D.A. allowed for ''a reasonable amount of variation'' -- which he characterized as up to 15 percent more of an ingredient than the label might indicate. Mr. Shao said that manufacturers frequently add slightly more of an ingredient to ensure that the amount is at least at the level claimed on the label as the product nears the end of its shelf life. 
 In any case, ConsumerLab.com says it has found a few patterns that consumers may find helpful. Products sold by vitamin chains tend to be more reliable than drugstore brands, and Wal-Mart and Costco's vitamin lines are usually worth considering. In a recent test of multivitamins, ConsumerLab.com found that Equate-Mature Multivitamin 50+ sold by Wal-Mart was just as good as the name brand Centrum Silver, but at less than a nickel a day is half the price. 
 Puritan's Pride, a catalog and online retailer, also has very good prices, and Dr. Cooperman says that its products are generally good.
 Curious consumers can subscribe to ConsumerLab.com for $30 a year and learn how other supplement brands fare in the lab's tests.
 CERTIFICATION SYMBOLS One quality check you can make, although it is not a perfect screening, is to see whether a product is certified by one of several nonprofit organizations that check supplements for purity and quality. 
 The two most commonly used groups are the United States Pharmacopeia (www.usp.org) and NSF International (www.nsf.org), according to Mr. Shao. Manufacturers voluntarily submit a product for review and, if it passes, the product can bear an approval seal, such as USP or NSF. Because the process is voluntary, Mr. Shao points out, the absence of the seal does not necessarily mean the product is of poor quality. 
 But at least the seal should mean you know what you're getting. And with vitamins, anything beyond that simple assurance may not be worth paying for. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ConsumerLab.com found that products sold by chains, like this Manhattan Vitamin Shoppe, tended to be the most reliable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (90%); ANALGESICS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); NUTRITION (89%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); BRANDING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FOOD SUPPLEMENT STORES (78%); DIETING (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); CANCER (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HEART DISEASE (63%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (63%); INSURANCE POLICIES (61%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); SALES PROJECTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



127 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Home-Care Patients Worried Over Cuts in Health Overhaul

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: CARIBOU, Me. 

 BODY:
Dozing in a big lift chair, propped up by pillows in the living room of her modest home here, Bertha G. Milliard greeted the nurse who had come to check her condition and review the medications she takes for chronic pain, heart failure, stroke and dementia.
 Ms. Milliard, 94, said those visits had been highly effective in keeping her out of the hospital. But the home care she receives could be altered under legislation passed by the House and pending on the Senate floor as Congress returned to work this week.
 As they are across the nation, Medicare patients and nurses in this town in northern Maine are anxiously following the Congressional debate because its outcome could affect Medicare's popular home health benefit in a big way. The legislation would reduce Medicare spending on home health services, a lifeline for homebound Medicare beneficiaries, which keeps them out of hospitals and nursing homes.
 Under the bills, more than 30 million Americans would gain health coverage. The cost would be offset by new taxes and fees and by cutbacks in Medicare payments to health care providers. 
 The impact of the legislation on Medicare beneficiaries has been a pervasive theme in the first week of Senate debate, which is scheduled to continue through the weekend.
 Home care shows, in microcosm, a conundrum at the heart of the health care debate. Lawmakers have decided that most of the money to cover the uninsured should come from the health care system itself. This raises the question: Can health care providers reduce costs without slashing services? 
 Under the legislation, home care would absorb a disproportionate share of the cuts. It currently accounts for 3.7 percent of the Medicare budget, but would absorb 10.2 percent of the savings squeezed from Medicare by the House bill and 9.4 percent of savings in the Senate bill, the Congressional Budget Office says. 
 The House bill would slice $55 billion over 10 years from projected Medicare spending on home health services, while the Senate bill would take $43 billion. 
 Democratic leaders in the House and Senate justify the proposed cuts in nearly identical terms. ''These payment reductions will not adversely affect access to care,'' but will bring payments in line with costs, the House Ways and Means Committee said. The Senate Finance Committee said the changes would encourage home care workers to be more productive.
 The proposed cuts appear to be at odds with other provisions of the giant health care bills. A major goal of those bills is to reduce the readmission of Medicare patients to hospitals. Medicare patients say that is exactly what home care does.
 ''It helps me be independent,'' said Mildred A. Carkin, 77, of Patten, Me., as a visiting nurse changed the dressing on a gaping wound in her right leg, a complication of knee replacement surgery. ''It's cheaper to care for us at home than to stick us in a nursing home or even a hospital.'' 
 Delmer A. Wilcox, 89, of Caribou, lives alone, is losing his vision, uses a walker and has chronic diseases of the lungs, heart and kidneys. He said his condition would deteriorate quickly without the regular visits he received from Visiting Nurses of Aroostook, a unit of Eastern Maine Home Care. 
 The Aroostook County home care agency, which lost $190,000 on total revenues of $1.9 million in the year that ended Sept. 30, estimates that it would lose an additional $313,000 in the first year of the House bill and $237,000 under the Senate bill. 
 The prospect of such cuts has alarmed patients and home care workers. ''We would have to consider shrinking the area we serve or discontinuing some services,'' said Lisa Harvey-McPherson, who supervises the Aroostook agency as president of Eastern Maine Home Care.
 ''Our staff are scared,'' Ms. Harvey-McPherson said, ''but it's our patients who will pay the price if Congress makes the cuts in home care.'' 
 The four agencies under the umbrella of Eastern Maine Home Care cover a huge geographic area. Its nurses aim to see five patients a day, and they drive an average of 25 miles between patients, traversing potato fields and forests of spruce, birch and maple trees -- and a few bear, moose and lynx. In winter, they may need a snowmobile, or even cross-country skis, to reach patients in remote areas. 
 President Obama has said that the savings in Medicare would be achieved by eliminating ''waste and inefficiency'' and that ''nobody is talking about reducing Medicare benefits.'' Moreover, he said, health care providers stand to benefit because they would gain tens of millions of new paying customers.
 Home care executives question the arithmetic.
 ''No family or individual should ever go without health care coverage,'' Ms. Harvey-McPherson said, as she drove up to a patient's home here. ''But an increase in the number of people with insurance would not necessarily help our agency because we depend so heavily on caring for seniors, with 80 to 90 percent of our home care revenue coming from Medicare.''
 The impact on Medicare is a major concern for Maine's senators, Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, both Republicans being courted by the White House. Ms. Collins, a longtime champion of home care, has indicated she will resist the proposed cuts.
 ''Deep cuts to home health care would be completely counterproductive to our efforts to control overall health care costs,'' Ms. Collins said. ''Home care and hospice have consistently proven to be cost-effective and compassionate alternatives to institutional care.''
 Private insurance companies often follow Medicare's lead. So cuts in home-care payments could also jeopardize home care for privately insured patients like Christopher M. Hayes, a 35-year-old police officer in Presque Isle, Me. His left leg was crushed when he was struck by a car while jogging. He is learning to walk again with the help of a physical therapist.
 In trying to slow the growth of Medicare, Democrats in Congress assume that health care providers can increase their productivity at the same pace as the overall economy.
 But Saundra Scott-Adams, executive vice president of Eastern Maine Home Care, said: ''That's a joke for home health care. We provide one-on-one care.''
 Her doubts are shared by Richard S. Foster, chief actuary of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Mr. Foster said the health care industry was ''very labor-intensive'' and could probably not match the productivity gains of the overall economy. 
 While nurses can monitor some patients with electronic telecommunications devices, they said they still needed to provide hands-on care to many.
 Phillip H. Moran, a 65-year-old diabetic in Houlton, Me., lost his right leg several years ago. His kidneys are failing. Without regular visits from a home health nurse, Mr. Moran said, he would be in danger of losing his other leg because of complications from diabetes. As a double amputee, he would be more likely to go into a nursing home. 
 ''The nurses' visits are really important,'' Mr. Moran said. ''If they are cut, it could cost people their lives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bertha G. Milliard, 94, with Ruth Collins, a nurse, during a home-care visit in Fort Fairfield, Me.
Christopher M. Hayes receiving physical therapy from Betty Jean Gallagher at his home in Presque Isle, Me.
 Ron Notembaum, of the Visiting Nurses of Aroostook, coaching Mary Abbott of Caribou, Me., through arm exercises. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); NURSES & NURSING (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); VISITING NURSES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); HEART DISEASE (77%); DEMENTIA (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (75%); STROKES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



128 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: In Surprise, Jobless Rate Fell to 10% in November

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE; Jeff Zeleny and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The nation's employers not only have stopped eliminating large numbers of jobs, but appear to be on the verge of rebuilding the American work force, devastated by the recession.
 The unexpected improvement comes as a relief to the Obama administration, which plans to unveil new proposals next week to ease the plight of the jobless following its labor forum in Washington on Thursday.
 In the best report since the recession began two years ago, only 11,000 jobs disappeared last month, the government said on Friday, and the unemployment rate actually dipped, to 10 percent, from 10.2 percent the previous month.
 ''There are going to be some months where the reports are going to be a little better, some months where the reports are worse, but the trend line right now is good,'' President Obama said in a visit to Allentown, Pa., offering reassurance to a city besieged by unemployment and a country still suffering from the highest unemployment rate in 26 years. 
 Many forecasters suggest that the turning point -- from jobs being cut to jobs being added -- will come by March, assuming the economy continues to grow, as it finally started to do in the third quarter. If they are right, the beginning of a work force recovery would come more quickly than after the last two recessions, in the early 1990s and 2001, despite the much greater severity of this downturn. 
 Stock markets rose sharply early Friday after the employment report was released and ended the day slightly higher, while the dollar had its biggest one-day rally since January.
 Although 15.4 million people are struggling to find work, the November report revealed signs of improvement across the country. More than 50,000 temporary workers were hired, the first surge in months and often a precursor to companies hiring permanent workers. Employees worked more hours, even in manufacturing. 
 And, reflecting the increased hours, the average weekly wage for most of the nation's workers rose by nearly two-thirds of a percentage point in a single month, to $622.
 ''Many companies have reached the point that they can't extract more work from their existing employees,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight. ''That means they have to add hours for existing workers or add people. Just how many depends on how quickly the economy grows.''
 It also depends on business executives feeling confident enough about the economy to invest and expand their operations. That may take months of steady economic growth even after they have stopped peeling back their work forces.
 In the end, the unanticipated improvement in November may turn out to be partly a correction of too much bad news in October -- particularly the unemployment rate, which shot up four-tenths of a percentage point that month and has retreated somewhat. 
 But economists in the Obama administration were having none of that. They see the November improvement as payback from the $787 billion stimulus package. In briefings with reporters, they said the federal spending saved or created 1.6 million jobs. Without that lift, the total job loss over the 23 months of recession would have been 8.8 million instead of 7.2 million.
 ''I think you have to give our interventions a lot of credit,'' said Jared Bernstein, chief economist for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. And then, insisting that Thursday's job conference in Washington was a step along the way to more job creation activity, he said: ''By no stretch of the imagination does this report mean less pressure on us for job creation.''
 Republican economists were hardly as sanguine. ''Even if you accept their analysis that we are creating jobs this year, when you remove the stimulus you are going to destroy jobs,'' said Kevin A. Hassett, director of Economic Policy Studies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute and chief economist for John McCain in his failed presidential campaign. Mr. Hassett's preferred tonic, like that of many Republicans, is tax cuts for job creation, not public spending. 
 Adding to the positive signs, a broad measure of unemployment -- one that includes those forced to work only part time and those too discouraged to look for work -- fell to 17.2 percent, from 17.5 percent in October, the first decline in several months. In addition, job losses in September and October turned out to be far less than previously reported: 250,000 instead of 409,000. 
 ''All this good news is miles above the underlying trend rate of improvement, so we expect a correction in the next month or two,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief domestic economist for High Frequency Economics, said in a message to the firm's clients. 
 Even without a correction, once the economy turns and hiring resumes, nearly 18 million people are likely to be vying for jobs, as if they were all trying at once to jam themselves through a door too narrow to accommodate more than a few. In a strong economy, the work force seldom grows by more than 300,000 workers a month. 
 Nearly one-third have an even greater burden. They are the long-term unemployed, out of work for six months or more, and in many cases longer than a year. Not since records were first kept in 1948 has the percentage of long-term unemployed been as high as it is today: 38.3 percent of all those seeking work, or more than 10 percentage points above the previous high, in the aftermath of the early 1980s recession. 
 ''Assuming we have a strong recovery, it will take at least five years or more to get the unemployment rate down to a more normal 5 percent,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs, adding that the long-term unemployed have lost skills and some of the habits of work because of their extended idleness. Because of this, the nation may have to get used to an unemployment rate that seldom falls below 6 percent. 
 Annette Mercado, 39, a single mother in Chicago, said that she had retained her skills, even though she has been hunting for work since July of last year, when she was laid off from a $12-an-hour clerical job in a motorcycle accessory shop.
 She attributes that layoff to her refusal to work extra hours. ''I told them I wasn't willing to spend more time away from my 14-year-old daughter,'' Ms. Mercado said. She spent months scouring Craigslist, CareerBuilder and other job sites, but the best she could do, she said during an interview at the state unemployment office, was temporary holiday season work last December at a liquor store. 
 Ms. Mercado gets $984 a month in unemployment benefits as well as food stamps, but that is not really enough, she said, to pay all her expenses and those of her daughter without falling behind on the rent. Her plan, if work doesn't materialize soon, is to put her belongings in storage and move in with her parents.
 ''They are barely making it themselves,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On a ''White House to Main Street'' tour swing through Allentown, Pa., President Obama toured Allentown Metal Works. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) CHARTS: CHANGE IN PEOPLE EMPLOYED (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A1)
 The Labor Picture in November (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (87%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



129 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Economy Has 'Long Way to Go'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and JACKIE CALMES; Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Allentown, and Jackie Calmes from Washington.

DATELINE: ALLENTOWN, Pa. 

 BODY:
President Obama came to this aging factory town in Pennsylvania's Rust Belt on Friday to promote his efforts to revitalize the American economy, and wound up with an early Christmas present of sorts in the form of the report showing an improving employment situation.
 ''This is good news, just in time for the season of hope,'' Mr. Obama said in a speech at Lehigh Carbon Community College in suburban Allentown. ''I've got to admit, my chief economist, Christy Romer, she got about four hugs when she handed us the report. But I do want to keep this in perspective. We've still got a long way to go.'' 
 But if Obama administration officials were exchanging hugs, they were also keenly aware that Friday's report, which showed that 11,000 jobs disappeared in November, as opposed to the six-figure job losses many economists had expected, is only ''moderately encouraging news,'' as Mr. Obama himself said here. 
 Democrats in the administration and in Congress said the report would not slow their immediate plans for further stimulus measures. The White House and Congressional Democratic leaders proceeded Friday with plans to allocate as much as $170 billion to aid those without jobs and to create new jobs. 
 The House and Senate have agreed to add roughly $100 billion in extended emergency benefits for the long-term unemployed to the final spending bill for this fiscal year, which they hope to send to Mr. Obama before Christmas.
 The unemployment measure would extend provisions in the $787 billion economic stimulus package that otherwise would expire at the end of the month, and leave an estimated one million people without compensation in January. It also would extend food stamp benefits and a subsidy to help the unemployed keep their health insurance.
 Separately, House leaders are moving a bill providing roughly $70 billion for additional building projects and aid to local and state governments so they are not forced to lay off teachers and first responders. The bill would also expand lending to small businesses, which say credit lines from banks remain frozen. 
 To offset the cost, Democrats propose to use unspent money from the $700 billion bailout fund for financial institutions, and the White House has agreed to go along after initial hesitance. Republicans on Friday objected that the bailout balance should go toward the deficit. They said little about the jobs report, however, in contrast with past months when they were quick to seize on rising unemployment to claim that Democratic policies had failed.
 As both parties head into next year's midterm elections, the jobs issue will be front and center. But Friday's better-than-expected new jobless figures gave Democrats hope that the coming election year would not be as bad for the party as many had feared.
 ''If the trends continue -- and I underline 'if'-- the economy will soon be producing jobs rather than shedding jobs, and the debate will shift,'' said a senior administration official, speaking anonymously to discuss strategy. This official said Democrats hoped to put Republicans on the defensive with language like ''You handed us an economy that was shedding 700,000 jobs a month, and we managed an economy that finally started to produce jobs.'' 
 Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, said Democrats could win even if people were dissatisfied with the economy, so long as they thought it was getting better. ''The more we can move people from the 'dissatisfied and not getting better' category to the 'dissatisfied but getting better' category, the better off Democrats will be for 2010,'' Mr. Garin said.
 Mr. Obama is facing his own pressures. His fellow Democrats have been grumbling for weeks that he has seemed disengaged from the nation's economic woes as he grapples with Afghanistan and health care. The administration is now renewing its focus on the economy. Mr. Obama held a White House jobs summit on Thursday, and on Tuesday, he will unveil proposals to help businesses expand hiring in a speech at the Brookings Institution, a liberal-leaning research group.
 The Allentown swing, the first of a series of trips that the administration is billing as a ''White House to Main Street'' tour, was intended to humanize the effort. The president spent Friday hop-scotching across the city memorialized in the 1980s Billy Joel tune as the place where ''they're closing all the factories down.'' 
 At Allentown Metal Works, a complex of cavernous aging red-brick factory buildings, he met with men in hardhats who are working on components for the transportation hub underneath the new World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. He ate a cheeseburger and fries (his standard average-guy lunch) at a local diner, where he chatted up local business leaders. 
 At a career counseling center, he encouraged unemployed workers to keep looking for jobs, telling them, ''I just want you to know I'm thinking about you every day.'' He wrapped up his day at the Nestle Purina pet food factory, where he arrived between shift changes to shake the hands of more than 180 employees, clad in blue work uniforms and ball caps, who lined up single file to greet him one by one.
 In his speech at the community college, the president tried to personalize the issue, saying his own family was not immune.
 ''I know times are tough,'' he said. ''Michelle and I were talking the other day -- there are members of our families that are out of work. We're not that far removed from struggling to pay the bills. Five, six years ago, we were still paying off student loans. Still trying to figure out if we pay this bill this month, what do we have to give up next month. We're not that far away from there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On a ''White House to Main Street'' tour swing through Allentown, Pa., President Obama toured Allentown Metal Works. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); BANK FAILURES (65%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



130 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar High Court to Consider Dissident's Appeal

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
The highest court in Myanmar has agreed to consider an appeal by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the country's battered democracy movement, over an 18-month extension of her longstanding house arrest, her lawyer said Friday. 
 The decision by the Supreme Court comes after a lower court's rejection in October and coincides with tentative signs of a thawing of relations between the country's military government and Western countries.
 Lawyers will make an initial application on Dec. 21, and a judge will decide whether to grant a full hearing in front of the Supreme Court. A successful appeal raises the prospect that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi might be able to play a role in elections that the military government has pledged to hold sometime next year. 
 In a telephone interview, her lawyer, U Kyi Win, said the Dec. 21 hearing was largely procedural. ''It's a very routine matter,'' he said. ''It's neither positive nor negative.'' 
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been confined to her home for 14 of the past 20 years, was sentenced to an additional 18 months of house arrest in August for allowing a foreigner into her home. Mr. Kyi Win said he would argue that the laws used to convict his client, a Nobel Peace laureate, were from the 1974 Constitution, which he claims is no longer in force as the country is under military rule. 
 If the judge refuses to allow a full hearing, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi can take the final step of requesting a ''special leave to appeal,'' which is usually heard by the chief justice, Mr. Kyi Win said. 
 Despite her confinement, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has in recent months been able to meet with several visiting dignitaries, including a high-level delegation of United States diplomats. 
 After years of supporting economic sanctions, she has softened her tone toward the military government and last month sent a letter to Senior Gen. Than Shwe, the leader of the junta, requesting permission to meet with him. 
 Under the terms of the constitution due to take effect next year, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi appears to be barred from holding office because her husband, who died in 1999, was a foreigner. 
 But her role as a possible campaigner could change the dynamics of the election, which, if held, would be the first since 1990, when Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party won a landslide victory that was ignored by the generals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); THAN SHWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



131 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Black in the Age of Obama

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
A hundred and fifty years ago, Charles Dickens opened ''A Tale of Two Cities'' with the now-famous phrase: ''It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. ...''
 Those words resonated with me recently while contemplating the impact of the Obama presidency on blacks in America. So far, it's been mixed. Blacks are living a tale of two Americas -- one of the ascension of the first black president with the cultural capital that accrues; the other of a collapsing quality of life and amplified racial tensions, while supporting a president who is loath to even acknowledge their pain, let alone commiserate in it. 
 Last year, blacks dared to dream anew, envisioning a future in which Obama's election would be the catalyst for an era of prosperity and more racial harmony. Now that the election's afterglow has nearly faded, the hysteria of hope is being ground against the hard stone of reality. Things have not gotten better. In many ways, they've gotten worse.
 The recession, for one, has dealt a particularly punishing and uneven hand to blacks.
 A May report from the Pew Research Center found that blacks were the most likely to get higher-priced subprime loans, leading to higher foreclosure rates. In fact, blacks have displaced Hispanics as the group with the lowest homeownership rates.
 According to the most recent jobs data, not only is the unemployment rate for blacks nearly twice that of whites, the gap in some important demographics has widened rapidly since Obama took office. The unemployment rate over that time for white college graduates under 24 years old grew by about 20 percent. For their black cohorts, the rate grew by about twice that much. 
 And a report published last month by the Department of Agriculture found that in 2008, ''food insecurity'' for American households had risen to record levels, with black children being the most likely to experience that food insecurity.
 Things on the racial front are just as bad. 
 We are now inundated with examples of overt racism on a scale to which we are unaccustomed. Any protester with a racist poster can hijack a news cycle, while a racist image can live forever on the Internet. In fact, racially offensive images of the first couple are so prolific online that Google now runs an apologetic ad with the results of image searches of them.
 And it's not all words and images; it's actions as well. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's 2008 hate crimes data released last week, anti-black hate crimes rose 4 percent from 2007, while the combined hate crimes against all other racial categories declined 11 percent. If you look at the two-year trend, which would include Obama's ascension as a candidate, anti-black hate crimes have risen 8 percent, while those against the other racial groups have fallen 19 percent. 
 This has had a sobering effect on blacks. According to a Nov. 9 report from Gallup, last summer 23 percent of blacks thought that race relations would get a lot better with the election of Obama. Now less than half that percentage says that things have actually gotten a lot better.
 The racial animosity that Obama's election has stirred up may have contributed to a rallying effect among blacks. According to a Gallup report published on Nov. 24, Obama's approval rating among whites has dropped to 39 percent, but among blacks it remains above 90 percent. 
 Also, this hasn't exactly been a good year for black men in the news. Plaxico Burress was locked up for accidentally shooting off a gun in a club. Henry Louis Gates Jr. was locked up for intentionally shooting off his mouth at his own home. And Michael Jackson died after being shot full of propofol. Chris Brown brutally beat Rihanna. Former Representative William Jefferson was convicted. And most recently, the ''personal failings'' of Tiger Woods portray him as an alley cat. Meanwhile, the most critically acclaimed black movie of the year, ''Precious,'' features a black man who rapes and twice impregnates his own daughter. Rooting for the president feels like a nice counterbalance.
 However, the rallying creates a conundrum for blacks: how to air anxiety without further arming Obama's enemies. This dilemma has rendered blacks virtually voiceless on some pressing issues at a time when their voices would have presumably held greater sway.
 This means that Obama can get away with doing almost nothing to specifically address issues important to African-Americans and instead focus on the white voters he's losing in droves. This has not gone unnoticed. In the Nov. 9 Gallup poll, the number of blacks who felt that Obama would not go far enough in promoting efforts to aid the black community jumped 60 percent from last summer to now. 
 The hard truth is that Obama needs white voters more than he needs black ones.
 According to my analysis, even if every black person in America had stayed home on Election Day, Obama would still be president. To a large degree, Obama was elected by white people, some of whom were more able to accept him because he consciously portrayed himself as racially ambiguous.
 In fact, commiserating with the blacks could prove politically problematic.
 In a study to be published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of the Sciences this month, researchers asked subjects to rate images of the president to determine which ones best represented his ''true essence.'' In some of the photos, his skin had been lightened. In others, it had been darkened. The result? The more people identified him with the ''whiter'' images, the more likely they were to have voted for him, and vice versa.
 The Age of Obama, so far at least, seems less about Obama as a black community game-changer than as a White House gamesman. It's unclear if there will be a positive Obama Effect, but an Obama Backlash is increasingly apparent. Meanwhile, black people are also living a tale of two actions: grin and bear it. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Hate Crimes (Source: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Uniform Crime Reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CRIME RATES (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); TRENDS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); REAL ESTATE (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); FORECLOSURE (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (65%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (62%); FOOD SECURITY (62%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



132 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Shelves Key Initiative On Emissions

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
After intense opposition from building owners, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has dropped the most far-reaching initiative of his plan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
 The plan, which the owners said was too costly, called for all buildings of 50,000 square feet or more to undergo audits to determine which renovations would make them more energy efficient, and for owners to then pay for many of those changes. 
 The mayor wants to go forward with the proposal to require energy audits, but now is leaving it up to the building owners whether to undertake the changes called for by those audits. 
 It would have put New York far ahead of other cities in the green-buildings movement. Many cities require that newly constructed buildings be energy efficient, but do not impose those standards on existing properties. Some 22,000 buildings, together accounting for nearly half the square footage in the city, would have been affected. 
 ''It's another unfunded mandate, and this is just not the time for it,'' said Stuart Saft, chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, an opponent of the plan. ''Come back in five years when we're past this recession. At this point it's just a slap in the face.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, trumpeted the measure, which they announced on Earth Day, as the key component of ''the world's most comprehensive package'' to reduce greenhouse emissions from buildings. It drew praise from former Vice President Al Gore and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California.
 Mr. Bloomberg had also said the package of bills would create 19,000 construction jobs, for electricians, insulators and others. Administration officials estimated that most of those jobs would still be created by other provisions of the legislation that called for lighting upgrades and inspections of energy systems in buildings to prevent energy waste. But given that the mayor is dropping the most far-reaching component, the legislation is unlikely to result in anywhere near that, others said.
 ''I'd be shocked if 5,000 of those jobs were created,'' said Louis J. Coletti, president and chief executive of the Building Trades Employers' Association. ''The world of real estate and construction financing have been upended by the economic crisis.''
 City officials sought to play down the change on Friday, saying the package of bills would still make important strides in energy efficiency. 
 It would require large commercial buildings to measure and provide information to tenants about individual energy use, which officials say typically results in tenants lowering their use. The legislation would also create the city's first energy code for all buildings.
 The original legislation required owners to make any improvements for which the cost could be recouped through declines in energy bills within five years.
 Speaker Quinn said that even the scaled-down package of bills was groundbreaking: ''Getting to a decent first-round reduction, that's key for me.'' 
 In New York City, buildings account for 80 percent of total carbon emissions. Mr. Bloomberg has said he wants to reduce the city's total emissions by 30 percent by 2030.
 The City Council is scheduled to take up the package of legislation next Wednesday. 
 One of its sponsors, James. F. Gennaro, chairman of the Council's Committee on Environmental Protection, said he expected many property owners would replace windows, upgrade boilers and undertake other improvements on their own. But groups representing building owners said this was unlikely given the difficulties in obtaining bank loans. 
 ''In this climate? Zero chance,'' Mr. Saft said. ''No one wants to raise the operating costs of the building.''
 He said many building owners remained opposed to the mandatory energy audits, whose costs can run into the tens of thousands of dollars.
 Some environmental groups also played down the impact of rescinding the mandatory retrofits, saying that the proposal still has plenty of impact. 
 ''Even though the bill is not as strong, it's still ahead of the rest of the country,'' said Ashok Gupta, director of energy policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York. 
 Financing became an issue because the bills required about $2.5 billion in private investment in building improvements, and the city only has about $16 million of federal stimulus money available for loans.
 Rohit T. Aggarwala, director of the mayor's Office of Long-Term Planning and Sustainability, said a major sticking point for buildings was that, under some leases, owners who may have paid the upfront costs of retrofitting may not have been able to pass the costs to tenants benefiting from lower electricity bills. Councilman Gennaro said the issue introduced ''an element of unfairness and inequitable burden sharing'' to the retrofit plan.
 But Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said owners were also doubtful of the financial benefits to be had from investing in retrofits.
 Mr. Spinola said that his group always supported the goals of the bills in concept and that, with the most burdensome revision out of the way, it now supports their passage of the bills.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael R. Bloomberg, at an environmentally themed event in September, still seeks energy audits in all large city buildings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); AL GORE (51%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (51%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



133 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's Army

 BODY:
Even as he announced plans to send 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan, President Obama said his goal is to quickly drive back the Taliban, hand over control to the Afghans and begin to withdraw American forces. 
 For that to happen, the Pentagon will have to do a much better job of recruiting, training and retaining effective Afghan security forces. After eight years and more than $15 billion spent to train the Afghan National Army and police, neither is anywhere near ready. 
 The top American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Stanley McChrystal, recognizes that there is no hope of defeating the Taliban without significantly improved security and governance. Army training has been reorganized and is broadly headed in the right direction. Current plans call for increasing the Afghan Army from 90,000 troops to 134,000 by next fall. General McChrystal wants 240,000 a year later. 
 Highly critical reports this fall by American officials showed why this is so hard: 90 percent illiteracy levels for Afghan troops; desertion rates so high that thousands must be recruited each year to keep the force from shrinking; broken logistics; and, most tellingly, ''a lack of competent and professional leadership at all levels.'' 
 Better American military management, a large infusion of qualified trainers and President Obama's new strategy of sending newly trained Afghan forces into the field in partnership with American and NATO combat units can start to bring about the needed changes. 
 Training programs have been given their own command structure, and counterinsurgency lessons learned in Iraq have been adapted to different geographic and ethnic terrain. The American command structure is motivated by a new sense of urgency and a blunt recognition that the timing of America's exit is directly tied to the training of more effective Afghan forces. 
 American officials have not said how many of the 30,000 added troops will be devoted to training; between 10,000 and 15,000 more trainers are needed. With forces still badly overstretched by Iraq and Afghanistan, combat commanders have been reluctant to detach trainers. General McChrystal must overcome their reluctance. 
 Afghan soldiers get about $100 a month, a third of what some local warlords pay fighters, a major reason for desertion. This is a false, dangerous economy. The United States has spent nearly $60 billion on Afghanistan this year, and Mr. Obama's troop increases would add at least $30 billion. Adding 30,000 Afghan Army soldiers at triple their current pay costs under $1 billion.
 Most Afghan soldiers are paid in cash, which means that they often have to return home to deliver money to their families, sometimes going AWOL. A modest investment in wire or digital money transfer systems could ease that problem, reduce the desertion rate and make it harder for corrupt commanders to steal recruits' pay. 
 While we have some hope for the Afghan Army, we fear the police, with members recruited from warlord and anti-Taliban militias, may have to be rebuilt almost from scratch. Too many officers have been implicated in kidnappings, burglaries and shakedowns.
 In 2002, the United Nations delegated much of the responsibility for creating an effective police force to Germany. The program was poorly conceived and executed and under-resourced. It has had little impact outside Kabul. The United States, the United Nations and the European Union must press the Germans to do better.
 The Pentagon has stepped up its own police training programs. But too much of that effort has gone into developing paramilitary units to fight the Taliban, and not enough to regular policing. Afghans won't dare to turn against the Taliban until they know that they can trust their government to protect them rather than abuse them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (67%); LITERACY RATES (67%); WIRE TRANSFERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2009



134 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; HOLIDAY BOOKS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2434 words

HEADLINE: Travel

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER. 
Joshua Hammer, a former bureau chief for Newsweek, is a freelance foreign correspondent. He is writing a book about German colonialism in southern Africa.

 BODY:
This winter's travel books offer a roughly even mix of vice and virtue. From prostitution, thievery and violence in Bangkok and Johannesburg to the classical antiquities and literary treasures of the Greek islands and Oxford, they explore both the dark and sunny sides of human nature. Which is more fun? It's an open question. 
 In the wickedly enjoyable BANGKOK DAYS (North Point, $25), Lawrence Osborne, a down-and-out British writer living in New York, flies to Bangkok for a round of cheap dental work -- and embarks on a romp through a city whose prime commodity is sex. Many of Osborne's nocturnal rambles through the Thai capital's bars, brothels and hotels are carried out in the company of other expats, including an Australian watercolorist named Dennis, ''an elderly man with skin as white as fine library dust, with a fop of dyed blond hair falling between his eyes,'' and McGinnis, a sinister air-conditioner salesman with a shaved head and a face ''like that of a pleasant hoodlum who has just shot down a kite.'' Osborne himself knows no shame: at one point, the cash-strapped writer picks up a middle-aged Japanese woman at the bar of the Peninsula Hotel and rips her off while she's taking a shower: ''I lifted my hand and pried into the handbag, knowing there must be money there. . . . I pulled out two thousand-baht notes, which felt like they had been extracted from the warm rollers of an A.T.M. only minutes earlier.'' 
 Osborne also savors the city's non-libidinous pleasures: gaudy Buddhist temples, exotic fruit and noodle stands, and the handful of tucked-away canals that have survived the asphalting of the old Bangkok. But it's his descriptions of bar girls and their fellow travelers, of desperate couplings to ward off loneliness, that resonate. At one point, severely ill with a throat infection, Osborne finds himself in a hospital restaurant with a fellow patient who has just told him he's dying: ''Women on crutches with face masks flirted openly with men suffering from epileptic fits and sciatica. Hobbling, limping, squinting, this injured mass proved that the sex drive is the supreme of all instincts and cannot be suppressed even by terminal cancer. We lust till we die, we concluded with some relief, and ordered Tuscan white bean soup.''
 In THE LAST RESORT: A Memoir of Zimbabwe (Harmony, $24.99), Douglas Rogers, a white Zimbabwean expatriate, tells of his wrenching return to the backpackers' hotel his parents built and still operate in that country's fertile eastern highlands. Swept up in Robert Mugabe's farm seizures and Zimbabwe's economic implosion, the elderly couple watch as the tourists flee, then struggle to hang on financially, scheming to keep the property from falling into the hands of Mugabe's cronies. 
 Rogers's tale is reminiscent of Peter Godwin's ''When a Crocodile Eats the Sun,'' which described Godwin's parents' ruination in the capital, Harare. There are similar riffs on algae-infested swimming pools, break-ins, hyperinflated Zim dollars and rampages by thuggish ''war veterans.'' But Rogers skirts the bigger political picture and instead homes in on the hotel as a microcosm of a collapsed country. His mother starts writing a cookbook called ''Recipes for Disaster: Adventures in the Kitchen of a Failed State.'' His father rents out the property's abandoned guest houses to a sleazy entrepreneur who turns them into a brothel. Eventually, the hotel fills with dispossessed white farmers, a whole new source of eye-witness accounts of the country's devastation. 
 Rogers chronicles his parents' encounters with a boisterous black-market currency trader nicknamed Miss Moneypenny and with a Mugabe loyalist who appoints himself the family's protector. And always there are the maneuverings of a sinister -- and never identified -- figure known only as Top Man, a high-ranking official who covets the hotel and its land. Throughout, Rogers's father battles to outwit Mugabe's henchmen: ''He thought back to all the schemes he had adopted over the years to ward off the war veterans, the settlers, the Top Man, the Commissar. He'd hauled out the shotgun. Grown the bush wild. Erected an electric fence around the house. Shot at baboons and the poachers' dogs just to let the settlers know that he had a gun.'' This vibrant, tragic and surprisingly funny book is the best account yet of ordinary life -- for blacks and whites -- under Mugabe's dictatorship.
 Ivan Vladislavic's PORTRAIT WITH KEYS: The City of Johannesburg Unlocked (Norton, paper, $14.95) is an unsettling portrait of Zimbabwe's southern neighbor. Written as a series of snapshots of life during the first years after apartheid, this memoir-cum-prose poem from the South African-born son of Polish immigrants describes a city overwhelmed by poverty and crime. Among the emblematic details he shares with readers are the manholes Johannesburg's growing homeless population uses as personal storage spaces, the ubiquitous ''Gorillas'' (expandable steel bars) employed by car owners to immobilize their steering wheels, and his own bulging key ring, filled with keys for burglar alarms, security doors and other barriers against thieves and marauders. Vladislavic also follows the bizarre story of a real-life gorilla, Max, a denizen of the Johannesburg Zoo who is shot during a scuffle with an escaping robber and survives his wounds to become a local hero. 
 Seizing on unexpected details, Vladislavic describes the blurring lines between white and black Johannesburg. ''The township is made of cardboard and hardboard,'' he writes of the slapdash signs for painters, builders and other service providers that begin appearing across formerly whites-only enclaves: ''Handpainted on unprimed plaster, scribbled on the undersides of things. . . . Tied to a fence with string, leaning against a yield sign, propped up by a brick, secured with a twist of wire, nailed to a tree trunk.'' 
 Yet too many of Vladislavic's mini-chapters consist of pointless anecdotes: allusions to friends and lovers who show up once or twice and never appear again, mystifying descriptions of construction sites and storage bins, monotonous encounters with inebriated beggars, parking attendants and other hustlers. However, his descriptions of a long-privileged, long-sheltered tribe, grappling with new realities, can be painfully effective. Gazing at his fellow white South Africans in an airport terminal, he writes: ''In a brush cut's yellow nap, the drawstring of a Woolworths track suit, a splay-heeled foot in a rubber slipslop, a way of lounging against one another like seals, we recognize our kind. Relieved and repulsed, we slip back into the brown water of South African speech.'' 
 Justin Cartwright's OXFORD REVISITED (Bloomsbury, $18) is a loving tribute to a different sort of cityscape. A South African-born novelist who graduated from Oxford University in the 1960s, Cartwright returns to the medieval campus nearly four decades later on a combination nostalgic tour and journalistic inquiry. Seeking to define the university's greatness, Cartwright offers erudite meditations on everything from the solidity of its buildings (the color of their limestone is ''a washed-out russet, like the skin of an obsolete apple'') to the fiercely individualistic lives of its students. These include the German Rhodes scholar Adam von Trott zu Solz, drawn home before World War II and executed for his part in the 1944 bomb plot against Hitler. 
 Cartwright visits the New Bodleian Library, where he inspects an original edition of Shakespeare's First Folio and finds in the library's ''outward-looking, interested, open-minded'' atmosphere a metaphor for Oxford itself. He offers sharply observed homages to the thinkers and writers -- Isaiah Berlin, J. R. R. Tolkien, Charles Dodgson -- who shaped Oxford's discourse, and maps out the university's peculiar mix of silly rituals and sublime intellectual life. In addition, the book retraces Cartwright's own journey from callow teenager to confident young scholar-athlete. ''That first October,'' he writes of his early days on campus, ''the shadows lengthening and then fading on the Front Quad, the bells pealing all over Oxford, figures cycling . . . through the thickening gloom, the soft halation of lights on walls, I had the overwhelming feeling that life had just begun.''
 In TRAVELING WITH POMEGRANATES: A Mother-Daughter Story (Viking, $25.95), Sue Monk Kidd (author of the novel ''The Secret Life of Bees'') and her daughter, Ann Kidd Taylor, embark on a series of European journeys to heal a rift in their relationship. The story unfolds between 1998 and 2000, when Kidd, then in her early 50s, was experiencing both menopause and writer's block and her daughter was coping with depression after a failed romance and a graduate school rejection. Mother and daughter take turns narrating this sometimes overwrought tale, which evokes the Greek myth of Demeter and Persephone to explore themes of death and rebirth, and the complex relationship between mother and daughter. 
 Kidd's passages have some lovely turns of phrase. Of a visit to a ruined Greek temple dedicated to the sorceress Hecate she writes: ''A flight of steps leads up to a rectangular terrace where prickly cacti grow wild in the stone crevices like an incarnation of the crone Goddess herself -- vexing, unbridled, subversive, tough and vibrantly green.'' Kidd is brutally honest about her conflicted feelings toward Ann: ''Perhaps all mothers of daughters possess a secret talking mirror that announces when their young womanhood begins to fade and their daughters' begin to blossom.'' The experience ''can unleash a lacerating jealousy'' or ''usher in fears that I've sworn I'd never have. Of invisibility, anonymity, irrelevance. And deeper down, fears of decline and death.'' 
 Eventually the pair reconcile and overcome their self-doubt -- Sue through the burst of inspiration that led to her best-selling novel, Ann through a loving new boyfriend and a fledgling career as a writer. But too much of the book consists of pedestrian jaunts through all-too-familiar tourist locales -- the Acropolis, the Louvre, even a bateau-mouche on the Seine. Kidd's ruminations on aging grow tiresome, as does her daughter's wallowing in misery. Eventually you wish they'd just lighten up.
 In his introduction to the 2009 edition of THE BEST AMERICAN TRAVEL WRITING (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, paper, $14), this year's guest editor, Simon Winchester, laments the sorry state of American globe-trotting. Constrained by isolation and a historical lack of empire as well as a dismissive attitude toward foreign places, Americans, he argues, have never developed the wanderlust that characterizes their British cousins. (In United States high schools, Winchester points out, the word geography ''is buried in a shallow grave . . . known as the social studies and humanities programs.'') Still, the contributions in this book prove that a restless, intrepid spirit isn't unwelcome to American readers.
 In ''The Generals in Their Labyrinth,'' which originally appeared in Outside magazine, the indefatigable Patrick Symmes travels to Myanmar on the eve of the 2008 cyclone that claimed more than 100,000 lives. As the weather worsens, Symmes makes his way to Naypyidaw, the Burmese junta's newly built capital in the bush, ''an open-air prison where functionaries twirl their fingers at make-work jobs and generals loot the budget.'' Symmes -- who wisely gives up on a plan to sneak into the house-prison of the Nobel Peace laureate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi in Yangon -- vividly captures the paranoia and callousness of one of the world's most appalling dictatorships. 
 Roger Cohen, a former foreign correspondent who is now a columnist for The International Herald Tribune, meets dissidents, revolutionaries and ordinary Cubans in his clear-eyed Times Magazine article ''The End of the End of the Revolution,'' and finds a population trapped in the grip of a senseless economic system, desperately awaiting the end of the American embargo. 
 Also memorable are Caroline Alexander's ''Tigerland,'' about her trip to the Sundarbans Tiger Reserve, at the mouth of the Ganges River, for a look at one of the world's rarest creatures, and Eric Weiner's brief essay ''My Servant,'' about his relationship through the years with his Indian houseboy. Perhaps the most disturbing contribution is Paul Salopek's ''Lost in the Sahel,'' which recounts this Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist's arrest and detention in Darfur. ''He was built square as a butcher's block, and at age 30 his hair was leached of color,'' Salopek writes of Corporal Salah, the ''chief whip man'' at the prison in the town of El Fasher, where Salopek is detained on charges of being a spy. A brute who dreams of being a doctor, Corporal Salah ''spoke to his victims tenderly, urging them not to be afraid, even as he scourged the hide on their backs.'' 
 If that kind of scene quashes your urge to hit the road, you needn't give up on new -- even foreign -- experiences. In fact, many of the most pleasant adventures can be found without traveling very far from home. The latest evidence appears in NEW YORK'S UNIQUE and UNEXPECTED PLACES (Universe, $24.95), by Judith Stonehill and Alexandra Stonehill, and NEW YORK: The Big City and Its Little Neighborhoods (Universe, paper, $25), by Naomi Fertitta. The Stonehills' delightful book is a guide to lesser-known but worthwhile museums, markets, shops, gardens and even a wilderness refuge. Among the highlights: the Map Room at the New York Public Library (a geography buff's dream, packed with nautical charts, frontier-expedition maps and Dutch-colonial drawings that expose Manhattan's ''hilly topography'') and the garden at the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, a hidden oasis of crab apple trees, roses and magnolias. 
 Fertitta's book serves up mini-profiles of 20 ethnic enclaves across New York City, from Flatbush's Little West Indies and Astoria's Little Egypt to Little Senegal in Harlem. Her colorful juxtaposition of faces, foods and architecture is a bracing reminder of the city's diversity. ''In the course of exploring 20 neighborhoods, I was humbled,'' Fertitta confesses, ''by the fact that not only had I been unfamiliar with the 'outer' boroughs but, in fact, hardly knew these areas of Manhattan that were often only a short subway ride from my home. My great realization was that in my quest for sophistication, I had become just a provincial New Yorker who thought that the city began and ended at my front door.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GREAT PLAINS: America's Lingering Wild.
By Michael Forsberg. 260 pp. University of Chicago. $45.
 Photographs of the endangered ecosystem of the prairies and steppes between the Mississippi River and the Rockies. Above, bison in the snow.(BR27) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY BLEXBOLEX, LEFT, AND FROM ''NEW YORK'S UNIQUE AND UNEXPECTED PLACES''(BR26 and BR27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); CLASSICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (74%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (68%); EPILEPSY (65%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (61%); CANCER (60%); RELIGION (50%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (59%) THAILAND (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); ZIMBABWE (91%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



135 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2010 VOLKSWAGEN GOLF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Economy Without the Ennui

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

DATELINE: PINCKNEY, Mich. 

 BODY:
 THE Volkswagen Golf is proof that there is more to motoring fun than a cooperative powertrain and a well-designed suspension. The window sticker is important, too, especially when it shows a nicely equipped hatchback priced at just over $18,000 with estimated highway mileage of 30 miles per gallon.
 The new 2010 Golf is the sixth generation in a line of small cars that dates back, in the United States, to the 1975 Rabbit. The car is better known as the Golf, although apparently lagomorph-loving marketing types have sometimes badged it the Rabbit, a less-than-heroic moniker most recently used for the 2006-9 model years. For 2010 it is a Golf once again. 
 The new model is still a front-wheel-drive hatchback with two or four doors, assembled in Wolfsburg, Germany. There are three models: the Golf, the high-mileage, diesel-powered Golf TDI (rated 42 m.p.g. on the highway) and the 200-horsepower sports-oriented GTI. 
 Prices begin at $18,240 for a two-door Golf with a 5-speed manual transmission and $19,940 for a four-door, which comes only with a 6-speed automatic. The cheapest Golf TDI diesel, a two-door, is $22,939, and the least expensive GTI, also a two-door, is $24,239. A jump from two doors to four costs $600 for either the TDI or GTI.
 The entry-level Golf is so pleasing because it is so good. I drove a two-door on the demanding roads here, about 25 miles northwest of Ann Arbor. These are roads often used by auto company engineers doing development work -- the turns and surfaces make it seem as if the road builders' goal was not to design safe here-to-there routes, but to challenge suspensions. 
 On such roads, the Golf's suspension shows its multitasking versatility. When the pavement is bad, the suspension has its guard up, protecting the Golf's occupants. But it is also ready on roads with surprising turns and odd banking that could fling a quick-moving vehicle into the woods. There is some body lean under hard cornering, but the Golf steadies itself and moves along. The steering is quick, with nice weight and good feel. One disappointment is a soft brake pedal. 
 The Golf has a 2.5-liter 5-cylinder engine rated at 170 horsepower and 177 pound-feet of torque at 4,250 revolutions per minute. The engine handles the car's 3,000 pounds quite nicely: VW says the Golf goes from zero to 60 miles per hour in 8.1 seconds with the automatic and 7.8 seconds with the 5-speed manual. 
 Fuel economy is rated at 23 m.p.g. city and 30 m.p.g. highway with the automatic and 22/30 with the manual.
 The Golf I tested had the optional ($1,100) 6-speed automatic. With the transmission in its regular Drive setting, the engine speed needs to be above 3,000 r.p.m. for a quick and strong response. Putting the transmission into ''S'' tells the computer to care less about fuel economy and delays the upshifts. That keeps the engine speed in a higher, more responsive range and makes the Golf feel much more eager.
 For those who want the best fuel economy, there is the TDI, which also has a sport suspension. The diesel engine is a 2-liter turbocharged, direct-injection 4-cylinder that is clean enough to be sold nationwide. 
 The TDI is rated at 140 horsepower and an ever-ready 236 pound-feet of torque from 1,750 to 2,500 r.p.m. A 6-speed manual is standard, and a 6-speed Direct Shift Gearbox, which functions like an automatic, is a $1,100 option. The car has an E.P.A. rating of 30 m.p.g. in town and 41 m.p.g. on the highway with the manual and 30/42 with the automatic. VW claims a zero-to-60 m.p.h. time of 8.6 seconds with either the manual or Direct Shift Gearbox.
 The new car's dimensions are virtually unchanged -- meaning the package is wonderful for one or two people who can use the back seat for cargo. Rear legroom is limited for adults, with barely enough room for a six-foot driver with a six-foot passenger directly behind, though still better than most compact cars. With the two-door, however, getting into the back involves something akin to a contortionist immunity challenge on ''Survivor: Wolfsburg.'' 
 Like most hatchbacks, the Golf is a marvelously flexible creation. Folding down the split rear seat creates 46.1 cubic feet of cargo capacity, which is about what Ford offers behind the second row of its midsize Explorer S.U.V. With the rear seat up, there is 15 cubic feet of cargo space, matching the trunk space of many midsize sedans.
 Volkswagen is known for turning out handsome, well-assembled interiors, and the Golf's qualifies. Even the cloth upholstery is attractive. The driver's seat offers good thigh support and is height-adjustable. Still, changing the angle of the seatback requires an awkward reach back to turn a knob. The good news is that the knob allows minute adjustments that are impossible on most cars with easy-to-reach, but clunky, levers. 
 The controls are easy to find and use. The biggest problems are a general lack of storage and smallish cup holders that may not meet the needs of Americans accustomed to extreme hydration.
 The Golf comes with all the top safety equipment, including electronic stability control and side-impact air bags. After crash tests by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety -- including a new roof-strength test -- the four-door Golf was rated a Top Safety Pick. (A spokesman for the institute, Russ Rader, said the results did not apply to the two-door Golf, which was not tested.)
 Reliability has been an issue with recent Volkswagens. The automaker was rated second to last in J. D. Power & Associates' 2009 Vehicle Dependability Study, which looked at how 2006 models had held up. But Consumer Reports magazine says its reliability studies show Volkswagen has been improving; the magazine rates the new Golf among the most reliable small cars.
 In the end, the standard Golf beguiles with neither speed nor cornering ability, but with its overall charm. The Golf combines practicality and distinctive style with a suspension that can either comfort or, to some extent, cavort. And the window sticker is nicely done, too.
 INSIDE TRACK: Putting some fun into frugality.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RABBIT REDUX: The name is Golf again, and generation No. 6 is entertaining, yet economical. (AU1)
 HAULER: Footprint is small, but cargo space is generous. (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



136 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: Scholarly Investments

BYLINE: By NANCY HASS

 BODY:
THEIR company names were conspicuously absent from their nametags, but that is how these hedge fund managers and analysts -- members of a field known for secrecy -- preferred it. They filled the party space at the W Hotel on Lexington Avenue in late October, mostly men in their 30s. Balancing drinks on easels adorned with students' colorful drawings, they juggled PDA's and business cards, before sitting down to poker tables to raise money for New York City charter schools. 
 Working the room, the evening's hosts, John Petry and Joel Greenblatt, who are partners in the hedge fund Gotham Capital, had an agenda: to identify new candidates to join their Success Charter Network, a cause they embrace with all the fervor of social reformers. 
 ''He's already in,'' Mr. Petry said as he passed John Sabat, who manages a hedge fund for one of the industry's big stars. (Like Voldemort in the Harry Potter novels, no one in the group would name him aloud.) 
 ''I wasn't hard to turn,'' said Mr. Sabat, 36, whom Mr. Petry drafted last year to be a member of the board of Harlem Success Academy 4, on East 120th Street, the latest in its network of school in some of the city's poorest neighborhoods. Boards agree to donate or raise $1.3 million to subsidize their school for the first three years. ''You can't talk to Petry without taking about charters,'' Mr. Sabat added. ''You get the religion fast.'' 
 Mr. Petry, 38, and Mr. Greenblatt, 52, may spend their days poring over spreadsheets and overseeing trades, but their obsession -- one shared with many other hedge funders -- is creating charter schools, the tax-funded, independently run schools that they see as an entrepreneurial answer to the nation's education woes. Charters have attracted benefactors from many fields. But it is impossible to ignore that in New York, hedge funds are at the movement's epicenter. 
 ''These guys get it,'' said Eva S. Moskowitz, a former New York City Council member, whom Mr. Petry and Mr. Greenblatt hired in 2006 to run the Success Charter Network, for which they provide the financial muscle, including compensation for Ms. Moskowitz of $371,000 her first year. ''They aren't afraid of competition or upsetting the system. They thrive on that.'' 
 Hedge fund managers may be better known for eight-figure incomes with which they scoop up the choicest Manhattan penthouses and Greenwich, Conn., waterfront estates. But they also dominate the boards of many of the city's charters schools and support organizations. They include Whitney Tilson, who runs T2 Partners; David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital; Tony Davis of Anchorage Advisors; and Ravenel Boykin Curry IV of Eagle Capital Management. 
 The Tiger Foundation, started by the hedge fund billionaire Julian Robertson, provides a large chunk of financing for several dozen charters across the city. Mr. Robertson's son, Spencer, founded his own school last year, PAVE Academy in the Brooklyn, while his daughter-in-law, Sarah Robertson, is chairwoman of the Girls Preparatory Charter School on the Lower East Side. 
 The Robin Hood Foundation, the high-profile Wall Street charity founded by Paul Tudor Jones II, a legendary hedge fund manager, considers charter schools ''right there at the top of our list of priorities,'' said Marianne Macrae, a spokeswoman. 
 Ms. Macrae said that the foundation has given more than $150 million to schools and management organizations, especially in New York, over the last decade.
 ''If you're at a hedge fund, this is definitely the hot cause,'' said Joe Williams, the executive director of Democrats for Education Reform, a nonprofit group that lobbies for charters and is financed by hedge fund heavies. ''These are the kind of guys who a decade ago would have been spending their time angling to get on the junior board of the Met, the ballet.'' 
 That hedge fund multimillionaires have embraced the charter movement may seem odd: their own children are unlikely ever to see the inside of a neighborhood school, and there are more traditional routes to social prominence through philanthropy, like support of hospitals and cultural institutions. But to those who know the sociology of Wall Street, it makes sense. Charter schools appeal to the maverick instincts of many who run hedge funds. 
 Younger on average than top executives at financial giants like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, hedge fund managers are often numbers-driven refugees of those banks, who chuck the suit and tie and work with a small staff, studying spreadsheets for investment opportunities. 
 ''At heart we are still the kids who in eighth grade were in the backyard doing science experiments while the cool kids were at football practice,'' said Mr. Curry, 43. ''We're the kind of people who could never survive in the slick political environment of an investment bank.'' 
 The claim of Mr. Curry to nerdiness is undercut by the fact he is married to Celerie Kemble, a Palm Beach-raised decorator and socialite, and is partners in a planned Caribbean resort with Moby, Richard Meier and Charlie Rose. 
 Still, Mr. Curry has been ''knee deep in educational issues'' since his 20s, he said. He co-founded two Girls Prep schools and is head of the board of the newer one, in the Bronx. The schools are ''exactly the kind of investment people in our industry spend our days trying to stumble on,'' Mr. Curry said, ''with incredible cash flow, even if in this case we don't ourselves get any of it.'' 
 The reference is to the fact that New York State contributes 75 to 90 percent of the amount per student that public schools receive. State law mandates that each charter have its own board, and the need to recruit trustees, including many from Wall Street, has turned ''a group of unlikely people into an army of foot soldiers for the movement,'' said Joel I. Klein, the city's schools chancellor, who along with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is a strong charter-school advocate.
 The mayor has asked the State Legislature to nearly double the number of charters allowed in the city, to 200, over the next four years. Although the New York charity world trembled last year as financial firms bled -- the Robin Hood Foundation's annual gala raised a disappointing $56.6 million in 2008, 21 percent less than the previous year -- Wall Street, and its expected bonuses, are back in a big way. (Robin Hood raised more than $72 million at its auction this spring.) 
 Across the country, charters are a focus of debate, often bitter, over their hiring of nonunion teachers, experimental curricula and potential siphoning off of motivated students. In New York, space issues have exacerbated the conflict. The city allows some charters to share space with under-used public schools; the new desks, computers and small teacher-student ratios paid for by private donors draw envious stares. There have been protests in some neighborhoods. 
 ''I think it's all good and well that these people are finally stepping up to support education,'' said Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, referring to wealthy hedge funders. ''But I would wish they would do it in a more foundational way, a way that would help all the children instead of just a small group.''
 Charter schools often have a longer school year, Saturday classes, uniforms and a passion for measuring results. Most of them are in the city's poorest neighborhoods and admit children by lottery. Approximately 30,000, or 2.5 percent of the city's public school students, attend charters, although in Harlem and parts of Brooklyn the figure is closer to 20 percent. 
 The schools present the kind of opportunity that ''electrifies'' hedge fund managers, said Mr. Tilson, 43, who is on the board of the Knowledge Is Power Program, which manages charter schools around the country. A founding member of Teach for America in the late 1980s (before earning an M.B.A.), Mr. Tilson also blogs about charters at edreform.blogspot.com. ''It's the most important cause in the nation, obviously, and with the state providing so much of the money, outside contributions are insanely well leveraged,'' he said. 
 Charter schools' reliance on metrics and tests to measure progress is another attraction for hedge funders. Mr. Petry, who cultivates a schlumpy aura that is more headmaster than Master of the Universe -- he carries an eight-year-old Blackberry the size of a Stephen King paperback stuffed in a nylon backpack and favors fleece pullovers -- said he reads spreadsheets of education statistics as much as those for new investments he's chasing. ''I can't understand how anyone could look at the raw numbers and not see what's at stake,'' he said during an interview in a restaurant near the Upper West Side apartment where he lives with his wife, a former teacher, and three young children. 
 Whether charters do a better job of educating children, even with the extra help from private donors, is much debated. A study released in September by researchers headed by Caroline M. Hoxby, an economist at Stanford who is a fellow at the Hoover Institution, concluded that on average New York City charters outperform local schools. But another study by a different group of Stanford researchers last summer suggested that nationally the numbers are muddier.
 The idea that eventually their schools might be ''scalable,'' that is, provide a model that could be rolled out in many communities, also excites the hedge fund crowd. ''The underlying drive is to build something that can spread, can be recreated in different cities; otherwise it's not as meaningful to us,'' Mr. Petry said.
 He said the most important thing he learned tutoring illiterate adults after graduating from the University of Pennsylvania was that ''helping the world one person at a time just isn't for me.'' 
 In addition to raising money, charter school boards, which also include educators and community activists, evaluate test scores and curriculum approaches, oversee budgets and develop teacher hiring protocol, said James Merriman, chief executive officer of the New York City Center for Charter Schools, a nonprofit group that offers planning and grants to those thinking of starting a school.
 ''It takes a lot more time and energy that being on the junior committee of an art museum,'' he said. 
 The workload didn't scare off Robert Reffkin, 30, a vice president in the private equity department of Goldman Sachs who is chairman of the board of the Success Charter Network's newest school, scheduled to open in the Bronx this summer pending state approval. It took only a week for Mr. Reffkin, who jokes that in charter circles working for an investment bank makes him a rebel, to recruit a half-dozen of his friends from banks and hedge funds, all between 25 to 32, to join his board. All have pledged $50,000 a year for three years. 
 Mr. Reffkin, who was raised poor by a single mother in Oakland, Calif., and says he aspires to run for city office one day, considers charter schools ''the civil rights struggle of my generation.'' 
 Persuading pals to join his school's 13-member board was ''much, much easier than it would have been convincing them to give half as much to, say, a mainstream cultural institution,'' he said. In October, his board rounded up 400 contributors for a $125-a-head fund-raiser for the school at the nightclub 1 Oak, with music by DJ Cassidy and D-Nice, an event intended to recruit other young financiers to the cause.
 ''In the past, we've had one or two big hedge fund guys footing most of the bill for each school,'' Mr. Reffkin said. ''But now enough of my peers in this industry who may not have the money to carry the whole thing understand what's at stake and what the return can be.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EDUCATIONAL LINEUP: Ravenel Boykin Curry IV, who helped found two Girls Preparatory Charter Schools, with students at the Bronx location. There is also a school on the Lower East Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHARITABLE: John Sabat, center, and Doug Snyder, right, at a Success Charter Network event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
ONE-TO-ONE: John Petry stops by a Harlem charter school.
ROLL CALL: Eva S. Moskowitz of the Success Charter Network. (ST10)
 CIVIC DUTY: Robert Reffkin considers charter schools ''the civil rights struggle of my generation.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); POKER (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CITIES (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



137 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: College Loans as Development Aid

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Three months ago, Kushal Chakrabarti likes to say, the organization he co-founded, Vittana.org, amounted to little more than ''three guys and a dog.'' 
 Then readers of The Huffington Post chose Mr. Chakrabarti as the ''Ultimate Game Changer in Philanthropy,'' and suddenly Vittana, which is pioneering student loans in the developing world, was the next new thing in charity. 
 ''I don't even know how we got onto the list,'' Mr. Chakrabarti said in an interview a few days before the results of the contest were announced. 
 Vittana, which beat out such well-known charities as DonorsChoose and people like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, is building a student loan business for microfinance institutions that cater to poor people in the developing world. 
 It uses a model similar to that of Kiva.org, a nonprofit organization that funnels loans to individual borrowers through microfinance institutions. The method is to solicit individual lenders for money that will back loans to young adults seeking college educations. 
 ''The student loan as you know it in the United States does not exist in the developing world, so this is a big development for us,'' said Martin Burt, executive director of Fundacion Paraguaya, a Vittana partner in Paraguay.
 Some mainstream banks in developing countries do offer loans to students, but such loans are typically expensive and thus out of reach for most students and families.
 With Vittana's help in raising money, Fundacion Paraguaya has so far made loans totaling $2,000 to five students and has arranged five more potential loans, Mr. Burt said. ''Vittana is just the beginning,'' he said. ''Once this becomes established, the opportunities are immense.''
 Many microfinance organizations have wanted to make student loans for several years but had trouble getting the institutions that back them to support a program. Mainstream banks and others lend to microfinance institutions who in turn lend to small entrepreneurs because those loans support an activity that generates income. But a loan to a college student bears no immediate promise of repayment.
 ''Our external partners' interests in reducing poverty were focused on what they perceived to be economic activity,'' said Francisco Montoyo Galeano, executive director of Afodenic, a Nicaraguan microfinance organization and Vittana partner, ''and they did not give their attention to students, which are really the key to reducing poverty in the population over the long term.'' 
 Afodenic has submitted 40 student borrowers to Vittana, some of whom are still soliciting loans, with an average loan request of about $1,000. Vittana also has partners in Peru and Vietnam and is working to start a program in Mongolia.
 Vittana hopes to demonstrate that students are as good a risk as any other microfinance borrower. 
 ''It's not like giving someone a loan to buy more oranges to sell at their fruit stand, which will enable them to produce more income because they'll be selling more,'' said Geoff Davis, an entrepreneur who was one of the founders of Unitus, a nonprofit group that works to develop the microfinance industry worldwide. ''The returns on a student loan take longer to materialize and require larger amounts than the typical microfinance loan.''
 Timothy Ogden, publisher of Philanthropy Action, an online magazine for donors, said Vittana's efforts were important because of the focus on college education as a means of improving standards of living. 
 ''If you're trying to raise standards of living,'' Mr. Ogden said, ''making an education loan is probably a better way of doing that than lending another $100 to an illiterate and unskilled woman to open another roadside stand.''
 Mr. Chakrabarti, 26, said he came up with the concept for Vittana in 2008 after leaving Amazon.com, where he led a team that developed the system that compiles a list of books a buyer might like based on the selection the buyer just made. ''I had decided that I didn't want to sell books for the rest of my life, and so I left Amazon and spent a fair amount of time in India,'' he said.
 While there, he developed an interest in microfinance, and he realized that the reason most people were taking out the loans was to finance their children's education. That led to research about loans for education, and then to Vittana. 
 The organization has provided financing for roughly 33 loans totaling $37,000 and now has six paid employees. The dog, Dusky, whom Mr. Chakrabarti was training as a guide dog, has moved on. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kushal Chakrabarti developed an interest in microfinance and then realized that most of the loans were to finance education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHARITIES (90%); MICROFINANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONGOLIA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



138 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; HOLIDAY BOOKS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2831 words

HEADLINE: Cooking

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE MUHLKE. 
Christine Muhlke is the food editor of The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Summer's homesteading how-to's and grilling guides have given way to fall's fearlessly bountiful lineup. It's the time of year when big chefs send out their big books and publishers release doorstoppers that will have U.P.S. trucks listing with the weight as they leave the warehouse. It's also the time for really useful books that will nudge you deeper into the winter kitchen to discover (or rediscover) the secret to no-brainer bread -- or find out how much more your co-workers will like you if you bring in a ''Naughty Senator'' cake. 
 Let's start with the biggest American chef with the biggest book. Thomas Keller is a pro at translating his restaurant menus into lavish cookbooks for the advanced home cook. His latest, AD HOC AT HOME: Family-Style Recipes (Artisan, $50), written with Dave Cruz, Susie Heller, Michael Ruhlman and Amy Vogler, serves up cozy dishes from his ''casual'' restaurant, Ad Hoc, a set-menu, elbows-on-the-table spot in Yountville, Calif., where the meatballs and fried chicken are inarguably better than your mother's. Keller loosens up accordingly -- or at least as much as the country's most obsessive chef can -- with hand-holding tips (how to extract more meat from a lobster, snip the ends of green beans with scissors or use a No. 12 Parisienne melon baller to prettily pit cherries -- naturellement!) and pictures of him looking sheepishly ''ad hoc'' in front of kooky chalkboard illustrations. Keep in mind that in Keller-ese, ''casual'' doesn't mean ''effortless.'' The idea for Ad Hoc may have been born from staff meals, but let's consider the staff.
 There are straightforward dishes like tomatoes with mozzarella -- homemade mozzarella. And you will truly aspire to make them. Do you have a day? Chicken soup with dumplings, ''a simple, satisfying'' dish, requires seven pots for what is ostensibly a one-pot meal. The celery is cooked differently from the carrots. The pate-a-choux dumplings are trimmed with scissors. The result was satisfying and elegant, but what isn't when a soup course calls for a stick and a half of butter and you have a staff of dishwashers? Ditto the mozzarella-stuffed meatballs. I tracked down, then ground, the four required cuts of meat; made the breadcrumbs and slow-roasted the tomato sauce while my husband hand-cut pappardelle. The result? How do you say ''Meh!'' in Italian? But I will persevere: chocolate chip cookies and blowtorch prime rib roast beckon. And jars of Keller's ''Lifesavers,'' like fennel mustard and tangerine-kumquat marmalade, will make great gifts. Hey T. K., when are you opening that burger joint? I need to start polishing sesame seeds.
 Gordon Ramsay has also set out to prove he can cook like the little people, via a book of homey recipes that can actually be cooked at home. By you. Because when he's not humiliating the BLEEP out of the BLEEPing contestants of ''Hell's Kitchen'' before eight million viewers, he's apparently eating ''posh kedgeree'' and fish curry with his friends and BLEEPing family. Seeing Ramsay's jack-o'-lantern maw and reading the words Gordon Ramsay and COOKING FOR FRIENDS (Morrow/HarperCollins, $35) elicits a nervous titter. Gordon, you've built a career out of being a first-class . . . chef. Now you want us to believe you still have friends? To judge by the (lovely) pictures inside, he has six: they appear throughout in almost identical shots, as does Ramsay, who apparently didn't have more than an afternoon to pose for the camera. 
 But the food! It's nice! Stuff you'd like to make -- and actually can in a reasonable amount of time -- from an international menu of comfort foods and slightly more ambitious fare: Thai-style fish cakes with sweet chili sauce, wild mushroom tarts in a walnut-Parmesan crust, lamb shank cassoulet. The recipes, written with Mark Sargeant and Emily Quah, are clear and not scary in the least. Chef Ramsay, I stand corrected. You may step back in line.
 One of the most talked-about restaurant books of the season is David Chang's MOMOFUKU (Clarkson Potter, $40). In five years, this 32-year-old New York chef has built an empire on inspired, porky excess. Chang's Virginia upbringing, upscale restaurant experience and love of certain Korean and Japanese flavors result in the kind of dishes that will jam your eyeballs into the back of your head, like brussels sprouts with bacon and kimchi puree. This fawningly produced book, written with the former New York Times ''$25 and Under'' reviewer Peter Meehan (who contributes the Grass Fed column to the blog of T: The New York Times Style Magazine), is fueled by Chang's hard-core attitude and punctuated with a ''Hell's Kitchen'' season's worth of unprintable words. The dude's intense, and he wants you to know it. The food is intense, too, especially as the recipes increase in difficulty as the chapters move up the Momofuku restaurant scale, from Noodle Bar to Ssam Bar to Ko. 
 It's exciting to think that thousands of American kitchens will soon be stocked with dashi, kochukaru and fish sauce. It's even more exciting to think that some people will confit chicken wings in five cups of pork fat and attempt the cassoulet-level marathon that is Momofuku ramen. For those just in it for the coolness (or without access to an Asian market), you don't need to make tare or ramen broth: the easy ginger-scallion sauce and miso butter are keepers. In both food and tone, ''Momofuku'' encapsulates an exciting moment in New York dining. In 20 years, when we're all eating McKimchi burgers and drinking cereal milk, we'll look back fondly on the time when neurotic indie stoners and their love of Benton's bacon changed the culinary landscape.
 Heston Blumenthal, the chef of the three-Michelin-starred Fat Duck in Bray, England, is a brilliant obsessive of another school. Not afraid to geek out, he's just as curious about how sound affects taste (diners who order a dish called Sound of the Sea listen to an iPod playing waves) as he is about 17th-century English cuisine. Last year, he oversaw the publication of ''The Big Fat Duck Cookbook,'' written with Pascal Cariss -- 11.6 pounds and $250 worth of engagingly written personal history, scientific research and recipes from his lab. . . . I mean kitchen. Republished as the somewhat more portable and accessible FAT DUCK COOKBOOK (Bloomsbury, $50), it now weighs in at just under six pounds. A lavish extravaganza larded with cartoons and Ralph Steadman-esque illustrations by Dave McKean, the book downloads everything in Blumenthal's head (which is a lot), including recipes for already legendary dishes like snail porridge as well as nitro-scrambled egg and bacon ice cream. If your dream cuisine involves liquid nitrogen and a rotary evaporator, Blumenthal's your bloke. 
 Molecular gastronomy didn't kill Gourmet magazine. The dump-and-stirrers did. Still, the timing of GOURMET TODAY: More Than 1,000 All-New Recipes for the Contemporary Kitchen (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $40), compiled by the magazine's editor, the former New York Times food critic Ruth Reichl, is tragicomic: the book was published two weeks before the magazine was shuttered, its staffers given 48 hours to clean out their desks; a sticker on the cover offers a free subscription with purchase. But what a great final act. ''Gourmet Today'' offers a thoughtful, thorough portrait of the way Americans are eating, documenting a cuisine that seamlessly incorporates ethnic ingredients, farmers' market produce, vegetarian entrees and quick-cook staples -- plus plenty of cocktails. This big green book isn't the big yellow one you bought your mom for Christmas '04. Not with recipes like Korean bulgogi, farro risotto with cauliflower or Afghani dumplings. Your mother might not make the recipe for David Chang's Momofuku pork belly buns, but chances are she'd try the pork chops with fennel-pomegranate salsa, and you should, too. Like many of the dishes in the book, it's simple, satisfying and pretty au courant. Thank you, Ruth Reichl. Come back soon.
 This season, the 1,000-plus recipe category also includes books of French and Italian cuisine. I KNOW HOW TO COOK (Je Sais Cuisiner) (Phaidon, $45) was written in the early 1930s by the Sorbonne home-economics teacher Ginette Mathiot, who was tapped to compile a comprehensive collection of recipes for young brides. The resulting 1,400 recettes tick through the French repertoire, from abricots a l'anglaise to zephyr veal scallops, and are written in a brisk, authoritative manner that assumes the reader does indeed know how to cook. As Mathiot wrote in the original introduction, ''A good cookbook must only offer useful information.'' 
 With up to six recipes per page, this translation by Imogen Forster is more ''Joy of Cooking'' than ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking.'' Like ''Joy,'' Mathiot's book has been updated through the years. Considerable visual charm aside, it earns its chunk of shelf space with unfamiliar vintage dishes like potage a l'aurore, sauce batarde and sheep's foot remoulade. You'll have to make them on faith, like the chocolate cake that requires grating rather than melting chocolate. It wasn't the chocolate cake I had envisioned (i.e., a brown one), but given the mystery factor and brisk instructions, it was a pleasant surprise nonetheless. Under Mathiot's guidance, the vanilla souffle did exactly as told, which is really all you can ask.
 Twenty years after Mathiot's brides entered the kitchen, members of the Italian Academy of Cuisine began gathering 2,000 recipes from nonnas, farmers and other cooks in order to document the roots of the country's classic dishes. If you've traveled in Italy, you've probably wondered why, say, pasta with chickpeas is made differently in towns 10 kilometers apart, or why you never found that spice cake you loved in Terni anywhere else. That's because Italian cooking isn't just regional, it's microregional, as Jay Hyams's translation of LA CUCINA: The Regional Cooking of Italy (Rizzoli, $45) proves to fascinating effect. 
 The book packs in so many recipes there's no room for bucolic back stories, photos or detailed instructions. And, this being an Italian book, organization isn't a strength. Recipes within a section aren't alphabetized or grouped by ingredient or region, so if you're looking for a bean soup, it's best to hunt through the ingredients appendix. But what delicious, oddball treasures you'll find: Trentino-style hare braised in spiced red wine, black polenta, stuffed lasagna and five varieties of bread soup. O.K., so the donkey and cabbage stew doesn't translate beyond Piemonte, but picking and preparing dishes at random will prove an enjoyable game for a winter's day.
 The editor Judith Jones has introduced millions of Americans to the joys of global cooking during her 50-year (and counting) tenure at Alfred A. Knopf, starting with ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking'' and continuing to this day. Now 85 and a widow (and writer), Jones has re-examined what making dinner means when you're ''only'' cooking for yourself, and has concluded that it's a delight: ''I open up the wine and light the candles, turn on some music, and give thanks.'' Her wise pep talk of a cookbook, THE PLEASURES OF COOKING FOR ONE (Knopf, $27.95), is also a manifesto: she encourages readers to experience food with all the senses and to pester supermarkets to sell individual cuts of meat rather than giant value-pack sizes that are downright discriminatory. 
 Jones is a dyed-in-the-ragg-wool Yankee: nothing goes to waste, and portion sizes are controlled. So each small-scale recipe is followed by pointers on what to do with that 14-ounce skirt steak in the days to come. (How about beef with sauce gribiche, followed by a gratin of beef, mushrooms and breadcrumbs?) ''A potato dish for Julia'' and boeuf bourguignon are things she could cook in her sleep (that's good), and corn and salmon pancakes and ''a small meatloaf with a French accent'' are simple pleasures indeed. Those who've taken to takeout rather than gorging on recipes designed to feed four to six will find this restorative book an encouraging friend in the kitchen.
 Speaking of manifestoes, Jim Lahey, the owner of New York's Sullivan Street Bakery pizzeria, staged a baking coup with his no-knead bread recipe. Mark Bittman's 2006 article about it in The Times probably sold more Le Creuset cast-iron casseroles than Julia Child's coq au vin. Lahey reminds people whose recipe it was with his humbly titled MY BREAD: The Revolutionary No-Work, No-Knead Method (Norton, $29.95), written with Rick Flaste, formerly the editor of The New York Times's Dining section. If you haven't tried it already, it is life-changing: Stir flour, water, yeast and salt for 30 seconds. Let rise overnight. Scrape dough into a round and let rise for another hour or two. Shape and bake in a covered pot. You'll get a perfect loaf, even if it means smoldering holes in your oven mitts. 
 Lahey offers a few spins on his flawless boule: carrot bread, coconut-chocolate bread, olive bread, fennel-raisin bread. And there are recipes for things to make with said bread, fresh and stale. But the second-best thing about this book is that Lahey demystifies the pizzas that made his name when he opened his first bakery in SoHo. The crisp, Roman-style slices -- topped with everything from cauliflower and red pepper flakes to potatoes and rosemary (my former breakfast staple) -- now sell at Dean & DeLuca for $5 a slice. But guess what? Lahey gives away the store, telling you how to make a whole, identical pizza for less. Novices will find the dough-shaping instructions on the minimalist side. But keep on stretching: perfection awaits. If you're coming to my house for drinks in the next year, you know what you'll be eating.
 And now, dessert. Karen DeMasco won a James Beard Award as the pastry chef overseeing Tom Colicchio's Craft-pire until jumping ship to Locanda Verde last spring. Like Claudia Fleming, her mentor at Gramercy Tavern, who wrote the near-perfect ''Last Course,'' DeMasco has (along with her co-author, Mindy Fox) written a book of sweets to savor, the title of which -- THE CRAFT OF BAKING: Cakes, Cookies and Other Sweets, With Ideas for Inventing Your Own (Clarkson Potter, $35) -- underlines the way in which book publishing works (i.e., very slowly). 
 DeMasco layers the homey foundation of her childhood favorites with the spontaneity she honed working in seasonal-ingredient-driven kitchens and a love of modern touches. And so her grandmother's cashew brittle becomes cacao nib brittle, which gets sprinkled onto a chocolate hazelnut panna cotta. She encourages readers to build and vary their craft, suggesting tips, twists and jumping-off points. That brioche pain perdu would, for example, be great with a scoop of caramel ice cream or a dollop of lemon curd. Recipes vary from adult comfort foods like butterscotch cream pie with gingersnap crust, brown-butter ice cream and chocolate custard tart to kid-friendly doughnuts, raspberry granola bars and s'mores (with homemade grahams, natch). This is the woman who brought the 'Wichcraft peanut-butter sandwich cookie into the world. I will do whatever she tells me.
 Don't look for any restaurant credentials or fancy farmers' market ingredients in ALL CAKES CONSIDERED (Chronicle, $24.95). Melissa Gray's sassy-pants prose will inspire even food snobs to shamelessly lube a tube pan with Pam before pouring in Crisco-filled batter. Proof that a good idea and a catchy title will still get you somewhere -- as willknowing your audience -- Gray, a producer for the National Public Radio program ''All Things Considered,'' parlayed her status as the office Cake Lady into a book deal. 
 A taste of Martha Washington's ''great cake'' at Mount Vernon gave rise to Gray's cake project, in which she perfected a sweet a week for her colleagues. The book's retro-kitsch design sets the mood for recipes like sweet-potato pound cake, Stephen Pyles's heaven and hell cake, and Spanish meringue cake. A year's worth of favorite recipes are here, in order of difficulty. 
 Gray's snappy Southern storytelling drives every recipe, whether it's the ''collective cake-gasm'' caused by a coffee cake, or the political shenanigans that led to the Naughty Senator cake (thank you, Larry Craig). Her chattiness runs from the titles -- Dark-Chocolate Red Velvet Cake: For Those for Whom Plain Red Velvet Cake Is Too Jejune -- to the instructions: the Procrastinatin' Drunken Monkey Banana Bread features a ''new technique alert!'' for plumping dried fruit with rum. She unapologetically worships Dorie Greenspan and Paula Deen in equal measure, takes recipes from old church cookbooks, ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' and Southern Living magazine, and has a ball throughout. May a thousand Cake Ladies arise from this project. Who knows? Media-related cookbooks could save the industry. Here's looking forward to The New York Review of Cookies.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture credit on Dec. 6 with a review of cookbooks misstated the title of the book from which the photograph of the chef David Chang, one of its co-authors, was taken. As noted in the review, it is ''Momofuku'' -- not ''Momofuko.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The chef David Chang, the force behind ''Momofuku.' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE, FROM ''MOMOFUKO'') (pg.BR33) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BLEXBOLEX) (pg.BR32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (88%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (88%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



139 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: A Long and Winding Road Together

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
The one constant in Calif Green's 36 years has been motion.
 A life that began in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, took him to North Carolina; Bay Ridge, Brooklyn; New Orleans; Atlanta; central Florida; prison; Macon, Ga.; Maryland; Key West, Fla.; a Harlem shelter; and ultimately, a three-bedroom apartment on the Rockaway peninsula so close to Kennedy Airport that, every three to five minutes, a plane will buzz the 11-story apartment building, its engines visible from the living room window. 
 ''Throw a string up there high enough, you can take a little ride,'' Mr. Green joked. 
 A father by the time he was 16, Mr. Green endured quite a bit before he settled into this 10th-floor apartment, including several ''wild years,'' a volatile marriage and the birth of six children, one of whom died in infancy. A series of breakups and reunions with his wife prompted their serial relocation, until his imprisonment for aggravated assault in 2002. 
 After his release he joined his wife and children in Macon, but in 2006 a construction job took him to Maryland. His daughter and sons stayed in Macon with their mother, who suffered from mental illness and would disappear for days at a time to abuse drugs, he said. 
 When Mr. Green's wife was arrested for assault and put behind bars, the boys were evicted and their things thrown into the street. Empty-handed, they went to stay with their maternal grandmother in Macon. But as soon as Mr. Green earned enough money for bus fare, he sent for his sons. One by one he was reunited with Calif Elijah, now 18; Ishmael, 17; Isiah, 16; and Zaire, 14. (His daughter opted to live in North Carolina with her boyfriend and infant son.) 
 When Mr. Green's grandmother, who lives on East 14th Street, fell ill, he brought his sons back to New York, where they have decided to stay. ''It was a real roller coaster. We're trying the stability thing now,'' he said.
 Unemployed, he took his sons to live in the Pelham Fritz Family Shelter, operated by Children's Aid Society, one of the seven beneficiary agencies of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. He and his sons were assigned a ''halfway decent'' two-bedroom apartment on West 118th Street, where they lived for seven months. 
 ''I talked to everybody and told them it was going to be a struggle, and that we needed to stick together,'' Mr. Green recounted. ''I actually painted a picture that was worse than it was -- it wasn't as bad as I thought.''
 There was, however, an electrical fire two months into their stay. ''No one was hurt,'' Mr. Green said, but their belongings were incinerated. Children's Aid moved them to another apartment and gave them $1,100 for clothing, household supplies and food. In March, when the Green family found the seaside three-bedroom they now call home, they furnished it with an additional $750 from Children's Aid. 
 A carpenter, Mr. Green found a job on a construction site in Middletown, N.Y., earning $350 to $630 a week. He rises at 3:45 a.m. to catch a ride that will take him to the job in Orange County, and returns home around 7. Before bed he has just enough time to ''cook a little bit'' -- favorite dishes include baked ziti, corned beef and lamb. ''We fight and argue for about an hour, and then I go to sleep,'' he said.
 The boys, who are nearing adulthood, seem relatively well adjusted, considering the perpetual motion that has defined their lives. 
 ''Actually, the moving around was kind of normal,'' said Zaire, who wants to be a surgeon. ''The staying in one place is kind of boring.'' 
 But Calif Elijah, who also hopes for a career in medicine, begs to differ: ''I'm glad we're settled. I'd rather be here than anywhere else.''
 Ishmael, who recently attended math and science camp, aspires to be an astronaut; Isiah, a junior, is studying history. Their favorite place to hang out is Union Square, near their high school, and they often write to their mother in prison. 
 ''I'm proud of them,'' Mr. Green said. ''They're good young men.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clockwise from upper left, Calif Green and his sons: Zaire, Ishmael, Calif Elijah and Isiah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); CHILD WELFARE (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (51%); ARRESTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); MACON, GA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



140 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: When Crime Comes to Paradise

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
EIGHTEEN cruise passengers were robbed at gunpoint on Bahamas tours last month. A retired British couple was seriously wounded in a machete attack at their second home in Tobago in August. A pregnant American tourist was abducted and killed during a morning jog in Fajardo, P.R., in February. 
 Such violent crimes against tourists are still rare in the Caribbean, but reports of events like those above have raised concerns about a trip to the region. Are those fears justified?
 Crime, in one form or another, is rising in Bermuda, Belize, St. Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago, based on a review of the State Department's consular information sheets, which provide data on safety and other issues in foreign countries. It continues to be an issue in places like the Dominican Republic, where pickpocketing and mugging are the most common crimes against tourists, and in Jamaica, where the United States Embassy has received several reports of sexual assaults against Americans this year, including two at resorts.
 The State Department acknowledges the upswing but points out that travelers can fall victim to theft and other crimes in their home cities. ''Crime happens everywhere,'' said Drew Haldane of the office of American Citizens Services. 
 What is different, though, is how those crimes are handled. ''Law enforcement, especially in the Caribbean, does not necessarily have the resources or response that you might expect in the U.S.,'' Mr. Haldane said. ''If you're victimized by a crime you need to be prepared for a slow justice process.''
 After Justin Holland, a 26-year-old New Yorker, was killed by a speeding car while visiting Negril, Jamaica, during a family vacation in February, it took police two hours to respond, said his mother, Carole Holland. ''When they did, they didn't seem to be very concerned or in a big hurry to take care of anything.'' She added that the authorities were friendly with the driver. 
 Her account is underscored by reports to the State Department of ''frequent allegations of police corruption'' in Jamaica, according to the department's consular information sheet. Her son's case has been repeatedly postponed. The most recent court hearing was on Nov. 4, and the proceedings were continued to Feb. 22, according to the United States Embassy in Kingston.
 ''If you're an American,'' said Ms. Holland, ''you are pretty much on your own in a justice system that is completely different from ours.''
 Requests for comment to the Ministry of National Security and the Jamaica Constabulary Force on the perception that corruption taints crime investigations were not answered in time for publication. In an e-mail statement, the Jamaica Tourist Board acknowledged that big cities like Montego Bay and Kingston face crime issues stemming from low-income areas but pointed out that each year people from around the world visit Jamaica -- the overwhelming majority without incident.
 Tourist areas, the statement went on, are ''well-patrolled and are secured by both the Jamaica Constabulary Force and by resort-funded security companies.''
 The Caribbean is aware of its crime problems and is trying to get them under control. In June, Caricom, an organization of Caribbean nations and dependencies that is developing a crime prevention action plan with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to prevent and reduce youth violence in the region, devoted a conference to the subject. Addressing a group of Caribbean leaders, Patrick Manning, the prime minister of Trinidad and Tobago and chairman of the organization, said, ''We must overcome this difficulty, if we are to achieve the economic and social progress that we envision for the Caribbean community.''
 In Jamaica, where the Tourist Board says crimes against tourists amount to less than 1 percent of overall crime, some police have been relieved from desk duties in recent weeks so that more officers can patrol the streets this winter season and beyond. 
 One resource for victims of crime abroad -- whether a purse snatching by thieves on motorcycles or sexual assault -- is the nearest American embassy or consulate, which can assist with finding appropriate medical care, contacting family members or friends and explaining how money can be transferred. Although consular officials cannot investigate crimes or provide legal advice, they can often help by explaining the local criminal justice process and offer a list of lawyers. The State Department Web site (www.state.gov/travel) offers more details on emergency assistance abroad, including help for American victims of crime overseas. 
 While Puerto Rico is a commonwealth of the United States and the U.S. Virgin Islands is a territory, each has locally controlled police departments and justice systems. In cases of federal crimes, the FBI has jurisdiction, otherwise crimes are investigated and processed through the local system. In these places, law enforcement consultants say, the police and court procedures are very similar to those in the rest of the United States.
 Some careful planning can go a long way if you encounter issues abroad. Travelers who make photocopies of their passports and birth certificates as well as all their credit cards and licenses, will be better prepared if any of those items are swiped. Be sure to include the numbers to call to report theft of a card or license. It's also a good idea to leave an itinerary of where you will be with someone back home so that they will know when to expect your return. 
 Mr. Haldane of the State Department recommends avoiding drinks you did not personally order or see prepared. ''It might seem silly to carry your margarita to the bathrooms,'' he said, but it's best to avoid leaving drinks unattended so that no one can tamper with them. 
 Be careful when walking after dark or visiting out-of-the-way places and take valuables with you instead of leaving them unattended in parked cars or on beaches. To protect yourself, limit the amount of cash and number of credit cards you carry. Load up your cellphone with emergency numbers, including the local police department, your hotel, and the local embassy or consulate. 
 There are no hard and fast rules for what makes one resort safer than another. But you may want to avoid rooms facing busy streets or with ground-level windows if you are concerned about break-ins. 
 Don't assume you're safe just because the hotel or cruise line made the arrangements. The tourists who were robbed at gunpoint in the Bahamas were on a ship-sponsored nature tour on Nassau arranged by Royal Caribbean and Disney Cruise Line, when two men wielding shotguns tied up the first group's tour guide and ordered the passengers to the ground before robbing them of money, passports, cellphones, credit cards and personal items, the local newspaper reported. The second tour group approached the area during the hold-up and was also robbed. 
 Both cruise lines, which have since suspended sales of these tours, worked closely with the passengers to provide assistance. No one was injured. And the Bahamas has pledged to step up police patrols in tourist areas. 
 In idyllic surroundings it's easy to let your guard down. But as good as those trade winds feel whipping through your villa at night, don't put your security at risk by leaving the doors to the veranda wide open and letting your guard down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The body of an American tourist abducted while jogging in February was found near Fajardo on the eastern coast of Puerto Rico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENNAN LINSLEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ROBBERY (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); CRUISES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAMAICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PUERTO RICO (93%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (93%); BAHAMAS (92%); BERMUDA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); BELIZE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



141 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; REMIX; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: A Hamburger In Paris

BYLINE: By MARKUS EBNER

 BODY:
The recession has made one American staple an export hit: le comfort food. New York restaurants have long been pushing dishes like truffled mac and cheese, and now Paris is woofing down grub Americain. At Hand (39, rue de Richelieu), so called for Have a Nice Day, the owner, Benjamin Tremoulet, a ruggedly handsome dude who always has a bottle of Budweiser in his hand, has brought the spoils of California to the City of Light: ''Surfing got me hooked on the culture of great burgers and beers,'' he says. With its D.I.Y interior -- hanging light bulbs, vintage school chairs and bright red floors -- Hand is only a French fry's throw from the Carrousel du Louvre, so the fashion flock can easily scarf down a snack between runway shows. The editors from Citizen K and Elle, as well as gals like Mademoiselle Agnes, a French television personality, are already fans of Hand's carrot cake, pecan pie and 10 different kinds of burgers. Our favorite is -- bien sur -- the triple cheeseburger with Roquefort, Cheddar and Emmental. MARKUS EBNER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMBROISE TEZENAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); FASHION SHOWS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



142 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: For a League of the Past, the Uniforms Live On

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
It's every retailer's dream: a product so hot that demand outstrips supply. The Denver Broncos could not have guessed that this season's hot product would be one of the ugliest sports socks ever created, the brown-and-yellow, vertically striped leggings that the team wore a half-century ago.
 That does not seem to bother Tim Kellond, who runs the Broncos' team store in Denver. Kellond has sold more than 1,800 pairs of the high socks at $14.95 and receives about 250 calls a week from customers asking when more will arrive from the manufacturer who, he said, has run out of brown yarn. 
 ''I thought I ordered a whole lot that would last until next year,'' Kellond said. ''My problem is deliveries. I get them in and sell them out in two hours.''
 The socks have been an unexpected hit for the Broncos and the N.F.L., which is near the end of its season-long 50th-anniversary celebration of the American Football League. The original eight teams -- the Buffalo Bills, the Denver Broncos, the Los Angeles Chargers (now the San Diego Chargers), the Boston Patriots (the New England Patriots), the Oakland Raiders, the Houston Oilers (the Tennessee Titans), the Dallas Texans (the Kansas City Chiefs) and the New York Titans (the Jets) -- have been featured in legacy games that have included vintage uniforms.
 The last of these 16 matchups will be Sunday when the Patriots play the Miami Dolphins, who joined the A.F.L. in 1966. The Cincinnati Bengals became the 10th team in 1968. The commemoration of the A.F.L. has provided a much-needed lift for the teams and the league, which were looking for ways to offset the effects of the recession on merchandise sales. More than two dozen licensees have been making about 100 A.F.L.-related products, which have produced tens of millions of dollars in sales, said Leo Kane, the N.F.L.'s vice president for consumer products.
 ''This economy has been challenging, so it's been a great story for our clubs to have a positive story out there,'' Kane said.
 Sales of throwback goods are a small slice of the $3 billion worth of N.F.L. merchandise sold annually, but they are proving to be the biggest sellers this year. 
 In New England, sales of A.F.L. and 50th anniversary goods have made up 20 percent of overall sales, compared with 12 percent last year, said Stacey James, a spokesman for the Patriots. The best sellers have been 50th-anniversary T-shirts for $19.95 and red jerseys worn in 1963.
 The Chiefs, who started in 1960 in Dallas, played the Dallas Cowboys this season in a contest billed as ''the game that never was'' because the teams never faced each other when they were both in Texas. Sales of red sweatshirts with the original Dallas Texans logo have been hot sellers.
 ''We didn't have vertically striped socks, but it did very well,'' said Jim Fisher, the manager of merchandise services for the Chiefs.
 Russ Brand, the chief operating officer of the Bills, said 30 percent of all merchandise sales this year had been 50th anniversary or A.F.L. related.
 ''There was a lot of hype, and it's certainly helped,'' he said. 
 Bills fans have celebrated their team's 50th anniversary at an exhibit at the Buffalo and Erie County Historical Society, which has 900 team-related items, many of them from the collection of Greg Tranter, an avid fan.
 The exhibit includes black-and-white photographs of players caked in mud at the old War Memorial Stadium, which had notoriously bad drainage. Tranter, who has 100,000 Bills-related items in all, is clearly fond of the team's original, silver-and-blue uniform.
 Few exist because old uniforms were given away to high schools at the end of the season, said Tranter, who grew up in Elmira, N.Y., and went to his first Bills game in 1965. His other favorites include a Johnny Hero doll in a 1965 Bills uniform and a straw hat that says ''All the Way with O. J.''
 The A.F.L. still resonates with fans not just because of the snazzy uniforms and innovative marketing, but because the league was a scrappy underdog derided as a Mickey Mouse league filled with N.F.L. rejects.
 ''The fans definitely felt that the A.F.L. represented something new,'' said Angelo Coniglio, who runs RemembertheAFL.com. ''The owners were rebels, and they acted the part.''
 That spirit lives on in an HBO Sports documentary from 1995, ''Rebels with a Cause: The Story of the American Football League.'' The one-hour program will be rebroadcast on Dec. 31 and several times in January.
 ''There are a lot of 20-somethings looking at all these funny uniforms and do not dig any deeper,'' said Ross Greenburg, the president of HBO Sports. ''This truly was the first sports league that became a power on its own.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Sept. 14, the New England Patriots wore uniforms like those of the Boston Patriots in the American Football League. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C J GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (87%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); TENNESSEE TITANS (82%); BUFFALO BILLS (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (54%); TENNESSEE OILERS (54%); HOUSTON TEXANS (54%); KANSAS CITY CHIEFS (54%); HOUSTON OILERS (54%); NEW YORK JETS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (54%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (53%) NORTHEAST USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); MISSOURI, USA (54%); OHIO, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



143 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Cable Guise

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai writes on national politics for the magazine.

 BODY:
After Walter Cronkite died earlier this year, Frank Mankiewicz, the onetime Democratic operative, recalled in The Washington Post how he had proposed that George McGovern select the CBS anchorman as his running mate during the 1972 presidential campaign. Cronkite was, of course, one of the most admired men in America and a known skeptic of the war in Vietnam. And yet McGovern's others advisers unanimously rejected the Cronkite gamble, not just because they feared he would say no but also because the boundary between journalism and elective office was so absolute that the thought of merging them struck aides as too desperate a ploy. Cronkite was ''wholly outside of politics,'' as Mankiewicz described it. Voters and party leaders, it was thought, could no more accept a newsman as a Democratic spokesman than they could imagine a politician broadcasting the evening news. 
 Now it seems that Cronkite's brief moment as a vice-presidential contender may have been the first inevitable step down a treacherous path. Today we're not at all surprised to hear names like Chris Matthews and Lou Dobbs tossed around as candidates for higher office. And while it used to be that only political aides of notable talent, people like Bill Moyers and Pat Buchanan and George Stephanopoulos (and, well, Chris Matthews), could make the tricky transition from politics to TV news, now it's the politicians themselves -- Joe Scarborough, Mike Huckabee -- who find themselves ensconced as hosts on a cable-TV set. The door between politics and television news now isn't merely revolving; it spins so fast and so continuously that a fair number of people no longer seem to belong neatly on one side or the other. Is Sarah Palin, at this point, a politician, or is she the star of some ''frontier family'' reality show? In fact, she seems to realize that the changed environment allows her to be both at the same time.
It's not hard to understand why political figures are lured into the realms of punditry or even outright entertainment. For one thing, in an era when the business of campaigning never really stops, the incursion of politicians into the news media enables officeholders who are between jobs to stay in our faces. (Look at John Kasich, the former Ohio congressman who parked himself at Fox News for a while and is now running for governor.) This isn't a strictly political phenomenon. It has now become routine, after all, for fired baseball managers and football coaches to sign on with ESPN or some other sports broadcasting division for a year or two, where they can make a bunch of money pontificating while also positioning themselves for the next big job opening. A fast-moving culture demands constant visibility; you can't just leave the scene for a while and expect the phone to keep ringing. And if Rush Limbaugh makes $50 million a year, commands the loyalty of some 13 million listeners and routinely scares the striped ties off every Republican congressman in Washington, then why wouldn't your average politician aspire to be in Rush's chair rather than in, say, Mitch McConnell's? 
 But it's not just self-interest that drives the media migration. It's the ability to control the larger conversation. The same temptation existed in the print age, of course. Alexander Hamilton started the newspaper that would become The New York Post, and for a long time in America being in politics meant at least dabbling, more often than not, in local publishing as well. These days, in a fragmented media world, a successful cable-news show might draw a few hundred thousand viewers on an average night. (To put this in some context, NBC's ''Today'' show attracted 6.3 million viewers on a single morning this month.) But a sizable portion of that paltry cable viewership comprises nearly every congressional aide, White House official and assignment editor in Washington, where it is rare to find a political or news office that doesn't have multiple televisions tuned to the punditry parade. And thus, even more so than Limbaugh's radio broadcasts, the cable-news shows take on outsize importance, defining the hourly debate for all those political influentials who, in turn, define it for the rest of us. If cable personalities are debating their guests about death panels and the propriety of bowing to the Japanese emperor, then it is most often these things -- as opposed to, say, financial-regulation reform -- that will dominate the daily discussion of, and even in, the Capitol. 
 All of this has created an upside-down dynamic in Washington. For most of the country's existence, prospective candidates have relied on their news-media ties to catapult them into office. As far back as the 19th century, the newspaperman Horace Greeley used his New York Tribune as a platform for his political career; more recently, Ronald Reagan made his radio commentaries the basis for a campaign agenda. Now, however, we may be confronting the opposite phenomenon: some politicians seem to seek office mostly for the purpose of landing on TV. How else to adequately explain the calculated outrageousness of obscure backbenchers like the Republican congresswoman Michele Bachmann (who said Obama was practicing ''economic Marxism'' and worried that the census could lead to another internment of American citizens) and her Democratic colleague Alan Grayson (who called one lobbyist a ''whore'' and other Republicans ''knuckle-dragging Neanderthals'')? Once, new members of Congress might have tried to work their way up through the ranks of the House, hoping to prove themselves worthy of leadership posts or of statewide office -- the way even a talented media provocateur like Newt Gingrich once did. But now, just by their willingness to be whisked off by Town Car to appear on some pundits' panel at a moment's notice, our legislators can bypass the hard work of governing and fashion themselves the televised leaders of populist mini-movements, celebrated heroes of the ideological fringe.
 This blurring of the roles played by our elected officials and our cable-news personalities is beginning to redefine our notions of political leadership. On television, a leader is usually one who fairly erupts with passion, who stands up to the system, who can outsimplify and outshout sinister adversaries. We watch a Bachmann or a Grayson, a Sarah Palin or a Lou Dobbs, and we think, perhaps, Now there's somebody with real convictions. The more mundane existence of those who actually govern the country, the colorless persistence of senators and congressmen who are barely recognized outside the Capitol dome, begins to feel more like smallness -- or worse, a kind of capitulation to the status quo. The real harm in the merging of politics and cable news isn't necessarily that we elevate the natural-born entertainers and the bullies among our politicians. It's that we begin to undervalue everyone else, confusing the theater of politics with the indispensable real thing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TURNER) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEZ BURROWS)
 GRAPHIC: 711,000 is the average number of viewers of ''Hardball With Chris Matthews'' on MSNBC at 7 p.m. E.T. (PHOTOGRAPH: CORBIS. DATA SOURCE (TOP LEFT): NIELSEN, DEC. 29, 2008 TO NOV. 22, 2009.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); BASEBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); SARAH PALIN (57%); JOHN KASICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



144 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; HOLIDAY BOOKS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2488 words

HEADLINE: Gardening

BYLINE: By DOMINIQUE BROWNING. 
Dominique Browning writes an online column for the Environmental Defense Fund. Her new book, ''Slow Love,'' will be published next spring.

 BODY:
Winter is setting in, our gardens are full of dried stalks of whatnot and our backs are just beginning to recover from the miles of rows we hoed, right? Be honest now: how many of you actually put in those vegetable gardens we kept reading about last spring? I thought so. Book publishers seem to have made a collective decision that they asked too much of us. Everywhere you turned, it was helpful advice and more than a dash of sanctimony -- in the service of raising everything from gourds to goats. This winter, it seems we are to plan our vacations instead. 
 Japanese gardens are making a good show, with four new books devoted to an art form that has been cultivated and refined over 14 centuries. I find Japanese gardens stunning in their austere beauty, but I can sympathize with people who want to know where the garden is, exactly -- you mean those rocks? For a swift but interesting overview of the arcane and elegant discipline of placing stones and capturing water, turn to INCOMPARABLE JAPANESE GARDENS (IBC, $24.95), by the photographer Gorazd Vilhar and his writing partner, Charlotte Anderson, who have been based in Japan since 1985. In her introduction, Anderson acquaints the reader with the Sakuteiki, the oldest known aesthetic gardening text, written nearly a thousand years ago, which outlined the essential considerations -- waterfalls ''should always face the moon'' -- for the design of gardens that can still be viewed today. ''Incomparable Japanese Gardens'' is a book to buy for its pictures, with nearly 200 pages of arresting images from Kyoto, Tokyo and beyond. These are uncaptioned throughout, a deliberate decision, I assume, to leave viewers to their meditations. But I couldn't shake my Western rationalistic manner and had to know what I was looking at, which meant much flipping back and forth to the caption section at the end. Having gone to all that trouble, I wish I'd been given more than a sentence of explanation for each picture.
 One way to prod a clod like me into a place of metaphysical receptiveness is to induce exhaustion. THE JAPANESE GARDENS: Kyoto (Pie, paper, $34.50) is nearly incomprehensible in its organization. I had that sinking feeling you get at the end of a trip, when you flip through your haphazard deck of souvenir postcards and realize you can't remember what went with what. I gave up trying to figure it out. Still, it was worth ambling through the pages to stumble on ''Poets' Gardens,'' a charming essay by Hidetaro Sugimoto about the Ryoanji rock garden. ''Smiling, weeping, laughing, playful,'' he notes, ''in their many faces, gardens are just like people.''
 Marc Peter Keane is the undisputed American master of Japanese garden scholars; he is also an educator and garden designer in his own right. Two of his previous books, ''Japanese Garden Design'' and ''The Art of Setting Stone,'' are indispensable. His latest, THE JAPANESE TEA GARDEN (Stone Bridge, $59.95), opens with an evocative scene of people arriving for a tea ceremony. ''The important thing is that a guest be neat and clean as an expression of respect for the host and of purity of mind. No one wears jewelry or uses perfume or cologne, those being too worldly and distracting.'' Since tea gardens have had a major impact on the design of Japanese gardens in general, this book is a necessary addition to the library of any serious student. The rest of us will enter with humility -- mindful of the small door through which one must crawl into the tea room -- and sip slowly. The sweeping historical ambition of this work emphasizes the connection between social and economic change and the development of tea gardens. In the 16th century, for example, moss was a sign of decrepitude and poor housekeeping; that it went on to become a revered element in Japanese gardens represents ''a paradigm shift,'' Keane notes, ''as to what constitutes beauty.'' We learn that stepping stones not only create beautiful patterns on the ground and keep feet dry but also slow the visitor's pace. It's impossible to be in a hurry and expect to understand anything about Japanese gardens -- a lesson that holds for understanding life in general.
 Yin, yang and yen: Those rocks really do it for me. I'm enchanted by the contemplation of precisely raked waves of sand and pebble, and I don't think it's just because I'm in awe of the meticulous housekeeping required to maintain such tranquil vistas. It is, rather, my yearning response to all forms of minimalism: Oh, for the simple life, undisturbed by the hyper-stimulation of modernity, unattached to material possessions, untouched by messy reality. ''In this newly induced state of mind,'' Stephen Mansfield writes in JAPANESE STONE GARDENS: Origins, Meaning, Form (Tuttle, $24.95), ''the essential symbolism of the garden elements, stones standing for the eternal structure of the universe, sand and gravel for the temporary nature of the phenomenal world, reveals itself.'' How can you not be enthralled by the Kyokusui no Niwa (Garden of the Undulating Stream), which ''takes its name from an ancient Japanese ceremony called Doll Floating, in which dolls were sent down rivers on miniature boats, carrying off bad luck with them.'' Though I do wish photographers wouldn't shoot in the glare of noon, this survey of the best of Japan's stone gardens may send you into the sort of fugue state in which you wake up to find yourself floating through the airport, boarding pass in hand. 
 Those whose sensibilities are roused by the splashy exuberance of mixed borders will welcome the release of the revised edition of HIDCOTE: The Making of a Garden (Norton, $45), by Ethne Clarke. Hidcote, along with Sissinghurst and Great Dixter, is one of England's most beloved -- and most-visited -- gardens, welcoming more than 100,000 tourists yearly. Some claim that it's the most influential garden of the 20th century, and in the face of the politely intense snobbery of which only English gardeners are capable, it's particularly delicious that Hidcote was created by an American, Lawrence Johnston. Hidcote was, as Clarke relates, the first property to be taken on by the esteemed National Trust on the strength of its gardens alone, thus preserving it for the future. 
 My only complaint with this book is that the pictures are perversely mingy. The occasion of a second edition, 20 years after the first, is the discovery of personal information pertaining to Johnston, a confirmed bachelor whose circle included Henry James and Edith Wharton. Hidcote combines informal, almost naturalistic planting with the more formal structure of the Italian garden, with its green rooms and strong visual axes. But an equally fascinating axis revealed in this book is the one that connects mother and son. This Eden was created by a shy, enigmatic man who, when lost among the roses, could shake off the ''short rein'' on which his formidable mother held him.
 Tree lovers lucky enough to visit Hidcote will never forget the sight of the glorious cedar of Lebanon around which the entire garden was planned -- not that we get a good look at it in this book. It's surprising how rarely garden books actually focus on trees; rather, they become just another consideration of landscaping. But there's nothing more satisfying than planting a woodland garden, even if you have to plant the woodland first. For gardeners who want to incorporate trees into their designs, I highly recommend the new SIBLEY GUIDE TO TREES (Knopf, $39.95). David Allen Sibley is the artist and author responsible for several excellent bird books (mine are well thumbed), and his tree guide holds its own against the Audubon series. His paintings manage the neat trick of being both evocative and accurate; the telling details are clearly articulated. 
 Trees are in the front line when it comes to suffering the effects of climate change. Consider, for example, the thousands of acres of lodgepole pines in Colorado and Wyoming that are being consumed by the relentless pine-bark beetle, a pest that is thriving in our milder winters. This is a good time, then, to become more sensitive to the enriching presence of trees. ''Our lives are intertwined with trees in countless ways,'' Sibley writes, ''and they remind us that we are not simply neighbors, but part of an integrated community.''
 Edith Wharton and Henry James did get around. We bump into them again in BEATRIX FARRAND: Private Gardens, Public Landscapes (Monacelli, $60), by Judith B. Tankard. Farrand, who was Wharton's niece, created some of the most important gardens in the United States, including the spectacular rose garden at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx (on whose board I serve), the East Garden at the White House and Dumbarton Oaks in Washington, D.C. Her client list reads like a Who's Who of the early 20th century: she worked for Theodore Roosevelt, J. Pierpont Morgan and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller. She also consulted on gardens for Yale, Princeton and the University of Chicago. 
 Tankard chronicles Farrand's childhood in the New York society Wharton probed in her fiction and charts Farrand's success in what was essentially a man's world. This book brings to life the gardens of a nascent and grand American landscape style, influenced by European gardens, modified for the nouveaux riches. You might want to get out a magnifying glass to view Farrand's meticulous plans, a trove of inspiration. For English majors, this book does double duty as a companion to Aunt Edith's novels.
 In 1899, Farrand wrote in an article about parks, ''Their great artistic value is not as yet fully recognized, especially by those who have charge of our municipal finances.'' Echoing that sentiment, still urgent more than a hundred years later in these times of severe budget cuts, is Lynden B. Miller, author of PARKS, PLANTS, AND PEOPLE: Beautifying the Urban Landscape (Norton, $49.95). ''Beautifying your city brings environmental, social and economic benefits,'' she writes. ''But to create successful public spaces you need energy, determination and above all a belief in the powerful connection between people and nature.'' Miller has directed the design and restoration of countless public gardens; she has seen firsthand how green spaces simply make people happy. I remember all too well the experience of crossing Central Park in the late 1970s; it was so dicey that I resorted to roller-skating to get through faster. The park's transformation, briefly chronicled here, is remarkable, a valuable case history in the power of public-private partnerships.
 Trained as an artist, and then a horticulturist, Miller was responsible for reviving the lost Conservatory Garden at 105th Street and Fifth Avenue: ''I had inadvertently stumbled on a key to successful public space: a planting design for four seasons.'' She is correct. When I recently dragged my reluctant sons into the park for an autumnal walk (it was so much easier to get them into gardens when they were strapped into buggies), I could tell, in spite of their grumbling, that they were enchanted by the riot of Korean mums spilling from the deep beds. So were thousands of bees. 
 Miller was also responsible for the generous perennial garden at the New York Botanical Garden. Her recent work on that garden's ''Ladies' Border'' (as it's been called since the 1920s) experiments with plants that are pushing the limits of the region's hardiness zones. Miller's authoritative book should be required reading for any study of urban planning, but it's equally relevant to the home gardener. It's full of useful design and planting advice, clearly and unpretentiously presented. 
 Many of us feel that we can go all the way around the world only to find what we were looking for in our own backyards. With all due respect to Japanese monks, when we're digging, a rock is a rock is a rock. For those of us who can't wait to get our mitts on our spades but need something to dream by until the spring thaw, I highly recommend Anna Pavord's fascinating BULB (Mitchell Beazley, $39.99). It warms the blood. 
 This is the most beautiful garden book of the season. Quite apart from its liveliness and wit, ''Bulb'' is handsomely produced, full of ravishing photographs by Andrew Lawson and Torie Chugg, and, appropriately enough, positively biblical in its binding. (There's even a ribbon to mark your place -- when was the last time you saw that in a garden book?) Pavord is justly revered for an earlier book, ''The Tulip.'' This new one, garnered from notes taken over years of cultivating her own gardens in Dorset, is a selection of 600 plants, organized alphabetically, along with tips on cultivating ''the most glorious group of plants on earth.'' A warning: ''Bulb'' is enough to induce lust in the most abstracted Zen gardener. I was converted by the time I got through Brimeura (''Think bluebell, seen down the wrong end of a telescope. Then take away the thuggish element of bluebells.'') By the time I was united with my personal favorite, fritillaria, I was a goner: ''Part of the charm of fritillaries lies in the way they are made -- the hanging bell suggesting a kind of bashfulness which is very appealing.'' A few moments with Pavord is worth a few hours with a psychiatrist. ''Sadly for gardeners, many fritillaries seem determined to die. . . . The death wish seems embedded in their souls. 'Why?' I asked the ghost of my Fritillaria pallidiflora. 'Why can't I make you happy?' '' So that's the attraction, eh? 
 Pavord is a bulb evangelist. ''One of the few infallible rules of gardening,'' she insists, ''is that no garden can have too many bulbs. Splurge. It is the only way.'' The section on Arum (Arum nigrum: ''the whole thing is very weird and splendid'') will have you reaching for your credit card; you will be deep in debt by Zephyranthes, which ''bursts from its papery sheath to produce a flower of pristine whiteness.'' Broke you may be, but also buoyed by happiness and hope. 
 For the person taking timid steps toward the toolshed, the American Horticultural Society's NEW ENCYCLOPEDIA OF GARDENING TECHNIQUES (Mitchell Beazley, $45), edited by David J. Ellis, Fiona Gilsenan, Rita Pelczar and Graham Rice, provides a considerate nudge. This is a book to turn to over a lifetime of garden misadventures. My copy, when it arrived, mysteriously flipped open to a section on my favorite veg, brussels sprouts. But there's plenty here for the would-be flower child, whether her heart is in cultivating water lilies or propagating woody shrubs with suckers. Instructions are exemplary throughout; the illustrations have the charm of a children's book, showing only the androgynous gardener's (pinkly clean!) hands or legs clothed in baggy blue trousers and green wellies. This is a book for expert and beginner alike. And, let's face it, every spring, like it or not, we are all beginners, all over again. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A review of gardening books on Dec. 6 misstated part of the title of a 2002 book by Marc Peter Keane. It is ''The Art of Setting Stones,'' not ''Stone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a characteristic visual axis from ''Hidcote''
 above, a diagram from an old gardening manual in ''Japanese Stone Gardens.'' (TOP PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA JONES) (pg.MM17) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BLEXBOLEX) (pg.MM16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); GARDENING (90%); WRITERS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); BOOK PUBLISHING (72%); POETRY (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (72%); JAPAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



145 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 532 words

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HEYMAN

 BODY:
James Rosenquist
 For this issue's pulpy take on the letter T (Page 129), the pop art legend James Rosenquist spliced together headlines from The New York Times. Raised in Minnesota, Rosenquist, 76, doesn't resist labels like ''pop artist,'' but he's amused by the divisions they inspire. ''I had a show in Paree in 1964,'' he recalls, ''and the neo-Surrealist pope, Edouard Jaguer, said: 'You are a surrealist! And you must come to the Promenade de Venus,' a cafe.'' The painter Pierre Alechinsky overheard this and, Rosenquist says, socked Jaguer in the face. ''I thought, Holy cow, this Paris is an amazing place! They'd hit somebody over art.'' His next show opens in February at Acquavella Galleries. 
 Lynn Hirschberg 
 T's editor at large, Lynn Hirschberg, who wrote about the lo-fi film movement mumblecore (Page 122) and interviewed our cover star, Taylor Swift (Page 130), has two prevailing passions: cinema, which she learned to love at art houses like Nuart and Fox Venice in her hometown, Los Angeles, and flea markets. Her wardrobe, her bed sheets -- ''everything except my shoes and underwear'' -- come from America's outdoor bazaars. ''It started out when we were young as a matter of economy,'' says Hirschberg, whose finds include more than 200 pieces of Pauline Trigere and vintage greeting cards. ''Now I actually get kind of depressed if I can't go to the flea.''
 Chip brown
 For the Gap's 40th anniversary, Chip Brown, a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine, was assigned to interview the company's ailing founder. But when Don Fisher died in September, Brown refocused his story (''Generation Gap,'' Page 136) on the retail empire Fisher left behind -- one that continually dresses down superstars like Sarah Jessica Parker. Brown, a Manhattan native, says talking to the Gap's spiffily attired executives made him feel shabby. ''I did have a little fashion resolve during the late '80s, when Charivari existed,'' he says. ''I went to the Barneys warehouse sale and bought a Yohji Yamamoto suit that I never wore because it looked like a 19th-century baseball uniform.''
 Amanda Fortini
 ''Culture, fashion, art . . . rehab -- I write about a lot of things that are based in Los Angeles, which is where I live,'' says Amanda Fortini, who wrote this issue's profile of Ryan Seacrest (''The Invisible Man,'' Page 96). To unplug, Fortini repairs to the Sagewater Spa in Desert Hot Springs, Calif. (far left). ''They don't mind if you skinny-dip, so it makes for a kind of decadent minimalism,'' she says. ''Mostly at night, of course!'' In addition to regular assignments for The New Yorker and New York Magazine, Fortini is working on a ''memoir about parasites,'' including both literal and figurative varieties. STEPHEN HEYMAN
 On The Cover Photograph By Raymond Meier. Fashion Editor: Tiina Laakkonen. The Musician Taylor Swift Wears A Chanel Dress, $12,700. Go To Chanel.Com. Hair By Kamo For Mod's Hair. Makeup By Makky At Streeters For Dior Beauty. Beauty Note: For A Similar Look, Try Dior Addict Ultra-Gloss Reflect In Red Stockings, Dior Colour Eyeshadow In Metallic Blue, Diorshow Extase Mascara And Dior Bronze Harmony Blush In Rose Brazilla. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM TOP: BOB ADELMAN
FROM ACQUAVELLA GALLERIES
KATHY RYAN
FROM LYNN HIRSCHBERG
FROM CHIP BROWN
REX USA
FROM THE GAP
DALE ROBINETTE
 FROM SAGEWATER SPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (73%); BASEBALL (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (57%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (52%); RYAN SEACREST (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



146 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; REMIX; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Dollies

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN EGAN

 BODY:
I have always wanted a large, multicultural family like Josephine Baker's or the Jolie-Pitts'. The boys would have names that are verbs, like Hunt and Pierce, and the girls would be named after food, like Pina and Coco Vin, in languages I cannot speak. They'd come from exotic places like Laos and the Ivory Coast. But kids break things and fall prey to pricey franchises like Webkinz. So, why adopt real orphans when you can take in an American Girl doll? At $95, it's a sounder investment in our troubled economy. 
 There's Kirsten Larson, who left Scandinavia with her parents to settle in Minnesota in the 1800s, and Felicity Merriman, who lived through the hardships of the Revolutionary War -- two lovable girls who can't sass and jam up your DVR with episodes of ''The Suite Life on Deck.'' Better yet, the dolls come with biographies. Their fates are pretty much sealed, so they can't blame you for messing them up during those troublesome teenage years. (Save maybe Gwen Thompson, the latest American Girl, who at one point was homeless and lived in a car.) And you don't even have to worry about spending that dwindling 401(k) savings on their college education, although it would be a shame to waste all those scholarship opportunities available to Kaya (4), a Nez Perce Indian from 1764. 
 O.K., so they won't be jetting between villas in France or town houses in London, but your kids have one perk that none of the celebrity spawn have: they come from different eras. It's like having a time machine! How about Addy Walker (2), who escaped slavery in 1864, or Julie Albright (1), a hippie chick from San Francisco circa 1974 (I bet she's got some protest stories), or Josefina Montoya, a native New Mexican from 1824? One can only imagine their present-day conversations about plumbing, climate change and the Gosselins. You could even take them back to their old stomping grounds -- Rebecca Rubin (3) lived with her Russian Jewish family on the Lower East Side back in 1914. (She's guaranteed to be blown away by the new Whole Foods Market.) Plus, there's something very of-the-moment about the American Girl dolls: they are made in China. How American is that? KATHLEEN EGAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL L. ABRAMSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORPHANS (78%); US 401K PLANS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (51%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



147 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: When the Performance Looks a Little Too Good

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SANMINA-SCI, the supplier of electronics services, is loaded with debt and in each of the last eightyears has lost money. Its shares have risen more than 600 percent since the stock market rally began on March 9.
 Wal-Mart Stores, the discount retailer, has lots of cash on its balance sheet, has very little debt and has consistently turned a profit. Since March 9, its shares have gained just 14 percent.
 The disparate treatment meted out to these two companies by the stock market highlights an unusual and, in some ways, worrisome phenomenon: to an extent not seen in decades, shares of companies with weak balance sheets have been soaring, generally outperforming firms with stronger fundamentals. 
 In part, this is a consequence of the terrible pummeling given to riskier assets of all kinds during the worst months of the financial crisis. Shares of companies that were deemed to be weakest were hit the hardest. It's only natural that they would bounce back the most at the first hint that financial disaster had been averted. 
 But the performance gap between the weak and the strong has rarely been as pronounced as it has been since March's market lows. The extreme outperformance of the more speculative stocks could make them vulnerable to another market shock.
 Ford Equity Research, an independent research firm based in San Diego, rates stocks' financial quality based on a number of factors, including a company's size, debt level, earnings history and industry stability. All told, Ford Equity follows more than 4,000 stocks. Those in the bottom fifth of its ratings -- including Sanmina-SCI -- produced an average stock market return of 152 percent from the beginning of March to the end of November, according to an analysis conducted for The New York Times. 
 The stocks in the highest quintile for quality -- including Wal-Mart -- produced an average gain of 66 percent over the same period, or roughly 85 percentage points less. That is the biggest disparity over the first nine months of any bull market since 1970, which is the first year for which Ford Equity has quality ratings.
 Historical comparisons to bull markets prior to 1970 must rely on a proxy for financial quality, and perhaps the best available is market capitalization. Not all large-cap companies are financially healthy, of course, and not all small caps are weak. But, historically, as a group, the difference between the large- and small-cap sectors has proved to be roughly correlated with the disparity between high- and low-quality stocks.
 Since the March lows, for example, according to Ford Equity, the 20 percent of stocks with smallest market capitalizations have on average outperformed the largest 20 percent by 72 percentage points -- only slightly less than the 85-point disparity between the lowest- and highest-quality issues.
 By contrast, in the first nine months of all bull markets since 1926, the average outperformance of the small-cap sector was just 21 percentage points, or less than one-third as much as the disparity over the last nine months, according to calculations by The Hulbert Financial Digest.
 Only once since 1926 have the first nine months of a bull market produced a gap greater than this year's. That was in the bull market that began in February 1933, in the middle of the Great Depression, when small caps outperformed large caps by an incredible 196 percentage points. 
 How can we explain the current extreme performance disparity? The federal government's stimulus program is the main cause, in the view of Jeremy Grantham, the chief investment strategist at GMO, a money-management firm based in Boston. Mr. Grantham said in an interview that by temporarily reducing the danger of incurring risk, the government had effectively encouraged huge amounts of risk-taking in financial markets. ''The sizable disparity of junk over quality should not have come as a big surprise,'' he said, ''given how massive the government's stimulus has been.''
 As an unintended consequence, Mr. Grantham said, high-quality stocks today are about as cheap as they have ever been relative to shares of firms with weaker finances. 
 ''It's almost a certain bet that high-quality blue chips will outperform lower-quality stocks over the longer term,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shares in Wal-Mart Stores have been bested by those of shakier companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RETAILERS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); EQUITY RESEARCH (70%)

COMPANY: SANMINA CORP (90%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (73%)

TICKER: SANM (NASDAQ) (90%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); WMT (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



148 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 45B

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Digital Age Creates Bumpy Nights at a Video Store

BYLINE: By JESSICA REAVES

 BODY:
When Milos Stehlik and Nicole Dreiske opened Facets Multi-Media in 1975, they ran their company on what could charitably be called a shoestring budget. Every month they survived was a reason to celebrate. Thirty-four years later, everything -- and nothing -- has changed.
 Today, Facets is a giant in the rarefied world of art-house films and cultural education. Its archives of more than 65,000 titles house what Mr. Stehlik claims is the world's largest collection of art films, including some last-existing copies. Its ongoing film series exposes cineastes of every age to experimental works alongside beloved classics. 
Its staff of film enthusiasts delightedly recommends movies -- from mainstream new releases to esoteric fare -- to anyone who walks in off the street or uses their pioneering home-delivery rental system.
 The film critic Roger Ebert has called Facets ''a temple to great cinema.'' It is a cultural treasure trove and invaluable resource for movie lovers. Yet every month is still a struggle to survive.
 ''Look, when we started, we had a typewriter and a few dollars,'' Mr. Stehlik said. ''Of course, those were difficult times. But in the early days it's just you and your energy, and your delusions and your sacrifices.''
 As the director of Facets, Mr. Stehlik faces a mounting pile of bills, including ever-escalating property taxes on the organization's modest building on Fullerton Avenue, and a payroll of 33 people, down from 50 a year and a half ago. Like most employers now, he is constrained by a reduced annual budget of $3.5 million, cut from $7 million in 2007.
 And while 70 percent of that money is earned income -- from Facets' retail operations and fees from its 1,600 members -- for the remaining 30 percent, Mr. Stehlik is dependent on donors and grants, which are harder to come by in this economy. Unlike the city's larger institutions, like the Field Museum or the Museum of Science and Industry, Facets cannot depend on an interest-generating endowment to help shield it from grim fiscal realities. 
 Yet, Mr. Stehlik seems comfortable with the idea of imminent financial disaster. ''We've been on that precipice many times in the last few years,'' he said. ''We live paycheck to paycheck, like most Americans.'' 
 But Facets' quandary is not just about money. While an infusion of cash would allow Mr. Stehlik and his staff to expand their educational offerings and to carry out desperately needed outreach and marketing programs, their long-term survival is tied to broader, more nebulous questions. 
 How does his business survive in a world of mergers and corporate conglomerates? And if it does survive, can it compete in the modern marketplace, where digital content is replacing film? Put another way: Is there a place for 16-millimeter film in a world of streaming video?
 Mr. Stehlik, unsurprisingly, believes there is. So does Eric Holst, Facets' operations manager, who, like his boss, talks about film's capacity for forging ''emotional connections'' and fostering ''spiritual enrichment.''
 Mr. Holst said there were plans to address one of Facets' perennial weaknesses: a distaste for self-promotion. Many people in Chicago simply are not aware of ''what we do and what we can offer,'' Mr. Holst said. He is confident that increased awareness will translate into expanded membership rolls and a healthier bottom line. 
 A first step, quite literally, is planned for spring. Mr. Holst will kick off a shoe-leather, political-style campaign, sending volunteers across the city on a door-to-door mission to spread the gospel of film -- and of Facets.
 Other plans for 2010 include a film series featuring restored, remastered editions of documentaries about and made in Chicago, as well as programs like a Latino film festival, which will showcase the depth of Facets' catalog while targeting as-yet untapped communities of potential new members.
 Meanwhile, Facets has plenty of stalwart fans, including Judy Hoffman, a veteran filmmaker and faculty member in the department of cinema and media studies at the University of Chicago. She calls Facets' collection ''breathtaking,'' and also praises its education and distribution programs. 
 ''The scope of their outreach is phenomenal,'' Ms. Hoffman said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anna Ha catalogs videos at Facets Multi-Media, which has archives of more than 65,000 titles.
 A customer waited to rent a movie at Facets, which carries mainstream new releases and esoteric fare. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); BUDGETS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



149 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Remix: U.S.A. All the Way

BYLINE: By WALTER KIRN

 BODY:
American style -- basic American style, the American style that goes back toHenry Ford's cars,James Dean's T-shirt and the Timex watch -- is not a pose but an adaptation to basic, fundamental challenges. Take jeans, our sartorial signature and our most influential contribution to the modern global wardrobe. They may sell for hundreds of dollars in swank boutiques from Boston to Buenos Aires, but it must be remembered that they originated as work wear for 19th-century laborers who valued them not for their color or silhouette but for their riveted ruggedness. Cowboy hats, truckers' wallets, nylon windbreakers and Converse high-tops, to mention just a random sampling of the wearable artifacts that have come to define our nation's aesthetic, were inspired by necessity rather than an intent to catch the eye. Design for design's sake, our history suggests, is not an American priority. Instead, we design things to do a certain job (whether it's in a mine, an office or a basketball arena), and when we devise a solution to the challenge, especially one that's ingenious, simple or cheap, the result is a forward leap in style that may not even seem like one at first. (Until the Japanese trend scouts come along and hawk it in Tokyo department stores.) 
 Lately, we seem to be doing our job well. Sorry, you prophets of cultural decline, but American style is on a roll again, exuding a new energy and confidence that's not only reshaping fashion but also affecting cuisine, technology, art and architecture. Let's begin at the bottom, with the lowly hamburger, which is American style on a bun. Given up eating at McDonald's? Don't. Thanks to a drive to boost its brand, the new Angus Burger actually tastes like beef, its fries have retained their minimalist perfection, and its recession-friendly prices suddenly have a charming retro feel. Meanwhile, over at Whole Foods Market, a gourmet populism has arisen based on supplying elite organic ingredients in amiably packaged abundance. Ace Hotel, a small Portland, Ore.-based lodging chain, has done something similar, renovating buildings in cities like Seattle, New York and Palm Springs, Calif., in a manner that preserves their local color while updating them with hipster eclecticism, all while keeping the room rates reasonable. It's a peculiarly American strategy, combining our fondness for respecting tradition with our libertarian playfulness and our utilitarian good sense.
 And then there's Apple, Apple the Almighty, no longer just a computer and phone producer but a high-tech fashion house that works in microchips, L.C.D.'s and polymers, introducing its hottest new lines with high-impact music and theatrics that outmatch the hottest Paris runway shows. Apple, like Ace and Levi's, affects a populist sensibility (its products work simply and want to be your friend) burnished with a rounded space-age look that subtly portends a nerdy rapture: Mac users will ascend to techie godhood, if only they keep trading up their laptops. And there we have it: the secret spiritual promise, traceable to our nation's religious origins, that subtly underlies American style and fuels its resurgent allure. American style whispers of a day when all will be attractive, healthy and competent, when style as we know it -- that urge to differentiate -- will finally prove obsolete because all will be equal, idols every one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); FASHION SHOWS (76%); POLYMERS (74%); FASHION DESIGN (74%); FAST FOOD (70%); NYLON (69%); ORGANIC FOODS (67%); HOTEL CHAINS (67%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); BASKETBALL (52%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (52%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%) OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



150 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: How to Run Up A Deficit, Without Fear

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University, is also co-director of the Paduano Seminar in Business Ethics at the Stern School of Business at New York University.

 BODY:
FEW subjects rival the federal budget deficit in its power to provoke muddled thinking. 
 It's a pity, because there are really only three basic truths that policy makers need to know about deficits: First, it's actually good to run them during deep economic downturns. Second, whether deficits are bad in the long run depends on how borrowed money is spent. And third, eliminating deficits entirely would not require any painful sacrifices. 
 Evidence for the first two propositions is compelling. The third is controversial, but as I'll explain, it's true nonetheless. Policies grounded on these propositions would greatly improve our economic prospects. 
 The first proposition comes from the eminent British economist John Maynard Keynes, who argued that when total spending falls well below the level required for full employment, the economy won't recover quickly on its own. Consumers won't lead the way, because even those who still have jobs are fearful they might lose them. And most businesses won't invest, since they already have more capacity than they need. Only government, Mr. Keynes concluded, has both the motive and opportunity to increase spending significantly during deep downturns. 
 Of course, if the government borrows to do so, the debt must eventually be repaid (or the interest on it must be paid forever). That fact has provoked strident protests about government ''bankrupting our grandchildren.'' 
 It's an absurd complaint. Failure to stimulate the economy would mean a longer downturn. That, in turn, would mean longer stretches of reduced tax receipts, increased unemployment insurance payouts, and depressed private investment. The net result? Higher total public borrowing and a permanent decline in productivity compared with what we would have had under effective economic stimulus.
 Once the economy is back on its feet, deficit logic changes. At full employment, extra borrowing often compromises future prosperity, just as critics say. On President George W. Bush's watch, for example, the national debt rose from $5 trillion to $10 trillion. Some of that borrowing paid for an expansion of Medicare prescription coverage and a financial bailout a year ago, but most went for a war in Iraq and tax cuts that largely just allowed for additional consumption. Our grandchildren will be forever poorer as a result.
 But the reverse would be true if government borrowing were used for productive investments. After decades of neglect of the nation's infrastructure, attractive public investment opportunities abound. It's been estimated, for example, that eliminating bottlenecks on the Northeast rail corridor would generate $12 billion in benefits at a cost of only $6 billion. These are present value estimates. When government undertakes such investments, our grandchildren become richer, not poorer. 
 But they'd be richer in the long run if we paid for those investments with our own savings rather than with borrowed money, for that would allow our grandchildren to benefit from the miracle of compound interest. Many fiscal hawks insist that the only way to eliminate deficits and pay for additional investment is by cutting government spending. But as California's experience suggests, that approach often backfires. Government programs have constituents. Those that get the ax are often not the least valuable ones, but those whose supporters have the least influence. California's schools, once among the nation's best, are now among the worst.
 To eliminate deficits, we need additional revenue. The encouraging news is that we could raise more than enough to balance government budgets by replacing our existing tax system with one that taxes activities that cause harm to others. Called Pigovian taxes by economists -- after the English economist Arthur Cecil Pigou -- such levies create a burden that is more than offset by the reductions they cause in costly side effects of everyday activities.
 When producers emit sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere, for example, the resulting acid rain harms others. As the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act demonstrated, the most efficient and least intrusive remedy was to tax sulfur dioxide emissions. Doing so entailed no net sacrifice, because solving the same problem by prescriptive regulation would have been much more costly. 
 Similarly, when motorists enter congested roadways, they impose additional delays on others. Here, too, taxation is the best remedy. The time that congestion fees save is more valuable than the fees are burdensome.
 When the transactions of financial speculators fuel asset bubbles, they increase the risk of financial meltdowns. A small tax on those transactions would reduce this risk. 
 When drivers buy heavier vehicles, they increase others' risk of dying in accidents. This risk would be lower if we taxed vehicles by weight. Carbon dioxide emissions contribute to global warming. Here as well, taxation offers the most efficient and least intrusive remedy.
 Anti-tax zealots denounce all taxation as theft, as depriving citizens of their right to spend their hard-earned incomes as they see fit. Yet nowhere does the Constitution grant us the right not to be taxed. Nor does it grant us the right to harm others with impunity. No one is permitted to steal our cars or vandalize our homes. Why should opponents of taxation be allowed to harm us in less direct ways? 
 Taxes on harmful activities would be justified quite apart from any need to balance government budgets. But such taxes would also generate ample revenue for the public services we demand, quieting the ill-considered commentary about deficits. 
 In the meantime, however, such commentary continues to render intelligent political decisions about deficits less likely. For example, 58 percent of respondents in a recent NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll said the president and Congress should worry less about bolstering the economy than keeping the deficit down, while only 35 percent said economic recovery was a higher priority. 
 If we really want to bankrupt our grandchildren, that poll charts a promising course. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); TAX LAW (64%); IRAQ WAR (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



151 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Forecast: Expect Temperatures to Rise in Copenhagen

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
With the scientific consensus more or less settled that human activity -- the burning of fossil fuels, torching of forests, and so forth -- is contributing to a warmer and less hospitable planet, one might reasonably ask, why is it so hard to agree on a plan to curb those activities?
 The answer lies with the many fault lines that cut through the debate over climate change. Those deep divisions will be on display beginning this week as representatives of 192 nations gather in Copenhagen for a United Nations conference on the issue.
 Organizers had hoped to emerge with an international compact to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help countries most threatened by rising sea waters and temperatures. But the divisions between nations are such that world leaders agreed last month to put off resolving the most contentious issues until next year. They will try instead to reach a nonbinding interim agreement in Copenhagen, then work toward a binding treaty in 2010. 
 Just what will happen, of course, remains to be seen. Here's a primer on some of the major themes and fissures:
 RICH NATIONS VS. POOR NATIONS
 Who should pay whom for what -- and how much?
 The Bolivias and Chads and Mauritanias of the world argue that they are more vulnerable to changes in temperature, and have little or no resources to adapt to changes in the growing seasons or increased rainfall or -- worst case -- to relocate large numbers of people.
 They want the rich world to commit to far deeper emissions cuts than they already have, and to provide them with cash and technology so they can prepare for the worst and develop a clean energy infrastructure for themselves.
 The rich world, meanwhile, is busy trying to figure out just how to calculate the cost of all this (estimates run into the trillions of dollars), and how to divvy up the bill.
 DEVELOPED VS. DEVELOPING ECONOMIES
 This is where postindustrial economies like the United States and Europe, which became prosperous by burning carbon-dioxide-spewing fossil fuels, face off against industrializing economies like China, Brazil and India, which resent pressure to decarbonize their energy systems now that they are growing.
 The standoff between China and the United States underscores the issues. The global trade rivals were reluctant to commit to emissions targets until each had an idea of what the other planned. The two countries together are responsible for 40 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. But all players have been eyeing each other warily.
 In recent weeks, bidding has begun, with Brazil, then the United States, followed by China and, last week, India, offering up individual emissions goals. But they have used different baselines against which to measure their reductions, making it difficult to determine whether there is parity.
 ISLAND AND COASTAL NATIONS VS. THE CLOCK
 In mid-October, ministers of the government of the Maldives, a low-lying island nation in the Indian Ocean, donned scuba gear and held a 30-minute cabinet meeting underwater off the coast of the capital, Male.
 The stunt was designed to highlight the nation's plight -- and that of three-dozen or so other small island and coastal countries -- should global warming raise sea levels in the coming decades. Even a modest increase could leave a number of low-lying nations uninhabitable.
 As a bloc, these countries have been lobbying for an international agreement to keep average temperatures from rising beyond 1.5 degrees Celsius -- or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit. They also want global emissions scaled back by as much as 85 percent by midcentury.
 The bloc, which includes a wide range of economies, from relatively well-to-do Singapore to strugglers like Haiti, wins points for being at the front lines of a planetary problem, but its political clout at the negotiating table is uncertain.
 EUROPE VS. EUROPE
 Even though the European Union has been at the vanguard of renewable energy development and emissions reduction through its carbon trading scheme, it is struggling internally over each nation's carbon quotas, assistance to developing countries and fidelity to the emissions reductions agreed to in 1997 under the Kyoto Protocol.
 While Europe as a whole is on track to meet its goal of an 8 percent reduction over 1990 emissions levels by 2012, not every country has pulled its weight. Nations unlikely to meet their individual Kyoto targets include Italy, Spain and, yes, Denmark, host of the Copenhagen talks.
 Poland and Estonia, meanwhile, have been bickering with the European Commission over the amount of carbon dioxide the two countries should be allowed to emit. Both rely heavily on coal for electricity.
 OPEC VS. CLEAN TECH
 Oil-producing nations are worried about the impact of a global climate deal, and they have increasingly argued that any agreement that would reduce reliance on fossil fuels should include compensation for their lost revenues.
 Saudi Arabia has spearheaded this argument, and while environmental groups and other stakeholders have dismissed the notion as a stunt, oil producers are not without the ability to muddle negotiations if push comes to shove.
 Meanwhile, developers of wind, solar and other renewable technologies anticipate a windfall if the community of nations -- including mega-polluters like the United States -- agree to a binding climate treaty. So, too, do global banks, which would presumably do handsomely through an expanded carbon trading market.
 Lobbyists from all sides will be wining and dining delegates over the next two weeks.
 CARBON TAXERS VS. CARBON TRADERS
 Many experts argue that the only way to tackle climate change is to put a price on carbon. Some say the best way to do that is to create a cap-and-trade system, in which industries are issued permits to emit carbon dioxide up to a certain level, or cap. Companies that emit below the cap can then sell their permits on a carbon market, where companies exceeding the cap will, presumably, buy them so they can continue to pollute. The total number of permits would not exceed an overall emissions target.
 Europe has had an emissions trading scheme since 2005. Some critics argue, however, that such systems are unnecessarily complicated and prone to manipulation. A simpler solution would be a tax on carbon, they say.
 But with a cap-and-trade scheme forming the bedrock of negotiations in Copenhagen, and among legislators in Congress seeking to pass national climate legislation, the carbon-tax camp has been increasingly marginalized.
 EMERGENCY VS. WE'LL FIGURE IT OUT
 The idea that human beings are nudging the planet's thermostat upward is widely accepted among climatologists. But just how rapidly things are changing, to what extent and where -- and at what threshold, if any, should we abandon all hope -- are far less settled questions.
 In 2008, the NASA scientist and global warming guruJames Hansen identified 350 parts per million as the upper limit for safe atmospheric carbon concentration. Current levels are approaching 390 parts per million.
 Others argue that there is no reason for panic -- nor for what they say is an economy-crushing global climate treaty. They are putting their faith in human ingenuity, arguing that planetary-scale engineering projects like blasting seawater into the atmosphere to increase the heat reflectivity of certain clouds (yes, that's a real idea), will eventually solve the problem.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY MARTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); MALDIVES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



152 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: On the Outs Nov. 29-Dec. 5

 BODY:
THE NEWS Fritz Henderson, the chief executive who led General Motors out of bankruptcy after a huge government bailout saved it from collapse, was asked to resign immediately by the company's board. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The move stunned the industry. But there had been signs that the board was unhappy with Mr. Henderson, having clashed with him over attempts to sell foreign units like Saab and Opel. In the end, the board wanted a new face who could change the company faster. ''My biggest strength is I've been with G.M. for 25 years,'' Mr. Henderson reportedly remarked, ''and my biggest weakness is that I have been with G.M. for 25 years.''
 THE NEWS The construction of minarets, the prayer towers associated with mosques, was banned in Switzerland when voters there approved a constitutional amendment in a referendum.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The Swiss government opposed the amendment, which was pushed by the far right. Officials were shocked when it passed by a wide margin despite there being only four minarets in the country, with only two more planned. Officials tried to reassure Swiss Muslims, most of them immigrants, that the ban was not a rejection of their religion or culture, while experts worried that any law to implement the ban would run afoul of international human rights conventions. 
 THE NEWS A bill to allow couples of the same sex to marry in New York was defeated in the State Senate.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Backers of the bill, which had already passed the Assembly and was supported by Gov. David A. Paterson, thought they had a chance for a narrow victory, or at least that the vote would be close. But the final tally was a decisive 38 to 24 against. Neither moderate Republicans nor Democrats from swing districts proved willing to risk the wrath of socially conservative voters. Catholic bishops, who had lobbied against the bill, said the political tide had turned against legalizing same-sex marriage, but gay-rights advocates vowed to fight on. 
 THE NEWS Commercial alligator farming, a thriving industry as recently as 2008, has contracted sharply this year amid steep falls in the prices tanneries pay farmers for alligator skins.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The tanneries cite recession-dampened demand for luxury goods like alligator-leather shoes, handbags and watchbands as the cause of the trouble. But manufacturers complain that the tanneries are still charging them high prices for tanned hides. One reason for the disconnect may be that one luxury-goods maker, Hermes, has been buying up exotic-leather tanneries and now dominates the business. Hermes denies that it is trying to corner the alligator market.
 THE NEWS The portable Olivetti Lettera 32 manual typewriter that Cormac McCarthy used to write his novels, plays, screenplays, short stories and countless letters, was auctioned at Christie's for $254,500. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. McCarthy, 76, whose work has earned him a Pulitzer Prize, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation ''genius grant,'' agreed to part with the secondhand typewriter he bought for $50 in a Knoxville, Tenn., pawnshop around 1963 because a friend had bought him another one just like it, but in much better condition. He is donating the proceeds to the Santa Fe Institute, a nonprofit research center he is affiliated with. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEATHER TANNING & FINISHING (89%); AUCTIONS (84%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); LOBBYING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%); MISC ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); LUXURY GOODS (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); DRAMA LITERATURE (61%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (92%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



153 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 45A

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: ClimateWorks Is Carrying Out New Global Strategy

BYLINE: By RICHARD C. PADDOCK

 BODY:
Hal Harvey had just graduated from Stanford University when he started a small company with his brother to build solar houses in Colorado. The company did not last long, but the experience gave Mr. Harvey ideas that come in handy now that he has become a leading strategist in the nonprofit sector's fight against climate change.
 For one, it helped him realize how much can be done to cut carbon-dioxide emissions by designing houses to save energy -- a simple lesson, but often ignored.
Now, 27 years later, Mr. Harvey is the chief executive of the ClimateWorks Foundation, a billion-dollar foundation that seeks to slow climate change, and he has gone global with that message. Best practices -- whether in construction, manufacturing, transportation, forestry or producing energy -- offer the best chance to halt global warming. 
 ''Early decisions have long consequences,'' he said. ''The choices that an architect makes, a developer makes -- simple things like site planning or home construction technique -- set your energy patterns and your living patterns for decades.''
 Mr. Harvey's foundation, a little-known San Francisco organization, aims for big results in faraway places. 
 Nonprofit groups in the Bay Area have, collectively, poured tens of millions of dollars into the climate-change fight, some since the early 1990s. These include the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the David and Lucile Packard Foundation and the Schmidt Family Foundation, all based near Stanford. 
 Also in the mix are the Energy Foundation, Mr. Harvey's former perch, or the three-year-old Sea Change Foundation, both based in San Francisco.
 But ClimateWorks, founded 18 months ago, has provided a new focal point for the climate-change effort. It receives most of its financing from the Hewlett and Packard foundations and the McKnight Foundation of Minnesota. It plans to give away $1.1 billion in coming years to help create a global network of experts to promote improved planning and technology in selected countries. 
 ''ClimateWorks has emerged as a very major international phenomenon,'' said Denis Hayes, an environmentalist who is president of the Bullitt Foundation in Seattle. ''What they are doing is bringing a single-minded focus to carbon.'' 
 Mr. Hayes said that largely because of ClimateWorks and the Energy Foundation, the Bay Area had beome ''a major center and perhaps the major center in the area of climate change.''
 And that puts Mr. Harvey at the center of an issue that has provoked alarm around the world. But his view is optimistic. ''Climate change, unlike a lot of large-scale problems, is actually one that is solvable,'' he said. ''It is also one where we know what we need to do.''
 As world leaders gather this week in Denmark in the quest for a global pact to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases, primarily carbon dioxide, ClimateWorks focuses on step-by-step carrying out of what it calls ''best practices'' in the key economic sectors and nations that can produce the most carbon reductions.
 For example, the foundation is backing efforts to upgrade cement factories in China, which generate vast amounts of carbon dioxide. Cement production contributes nearly 5 percent of global carbon emissions, Mr. Harvey said. 
 ClimateWorks finances the China Sustainable Energy Program, which helps hundreds of Chinese cement factory managers adopt new methods. Among the experts involved are scientists from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, who have long worked with Mr. Harvey on energy issues.
 ''A lot of our work is on the technical assistance side,'' said Lynn Price, a scientist at the laboratory who had just returned from meeting with cement factory managers in China. ''We show how much energy and CO2 they could save if they implemented these measures.''
 At a meeting with the China energy team at the Berkeley laboratory, Mr. Harvey said: ''This is very far from cosmic politics. This is also what makes the difference. There is no political agreement in the world that is going to change greenhouse gas emissions if it doesn't ultimately translate into these kinds of programs.''
 Mr. Harvey, 49, has short dark hair and a trimmed beard, a keen intellect and a native pragmatism. He is quick to pull out a pencil and paper and draw a graph to illustrate a point, like how costs can be cut sharply by reducing peak power consumption.
 ''Sometimes I get accused of being too much of an engineer,'' he said. ''But sometimes with social problems, it's good to subject them to math.''
 After building a handful of houses and farm buildings in Colorado, Mr. Harvey returned to Stanford in 1984 to get a master's degree in engineering. Since then, the issue that has engaged him most is energy. As he said, ''If you don't solve energy, you don't solve anything.''
 In 1990, he started the Energy Foundation, which backed conservation policies that have given California one of the nation's lowest per-capita rates of energy consumption. From 2001 until 2008, he ran the Hewlett Foundation's environment program.
 ClimateWorks grew from a 2007 report, ''Design to Win,'' financed by Hewlett and five other foundations to analyze how philanthropists could combat global warming. 
 The study showed which sectors of the global economy produce the most carbon and outlined steps to help reach the ambitious ''30 by 30'' goal -- reducing annual heat-trapping emissions by 30 gigatons by the year 2030. Mr. Harvey expanded on that analysis to create ClimateWorks.
 ''We have the best data in the world on how to prevent climate change,'' he said. ''Everything was ranked by magnitude, location and sector. It's a systematic approach to problem solving.''
 ClimateWorks gives grants to regional foundations. These, in turn, work with networks of experts to promote the best practices in fields like vehicle emission standards, building codes and energy efficiency.
 Part of the strategy is to spread successful methods. The group's approach is embodied in a chart called ''ClimateWorks Sudoku.'' It grew from a sketch Mr. Harvey made illustrating his approach to his staff.
 The grid shows five economic sectors (power, industry, buildings, transport and forests) across the top and six regions (the United States, China, India, Europe, Latin America and ''Rest of World'') down the side. 
 In each square, the Sudoku shows how many gigatons of carbon could be saved. For instance, China could save 3.5 gigatons by improving power generation; the United States could save 0.9 gigatons with more energy-efficient buildings.
 ClimateWorks is working in countries like India and China, which previously balked at reducing emissions. 
 In India, much of the emphasis is on improving energy efficiency, said Jayant Sathaye, a Lawrence Berkeley scientist working on an efficiency plan that could eliminate India's blackouts.
 In a telephone interview from Pune, India, Mr. Sathaye said, ''If the shortage was eliminated, the Indian economy would benefit by $500 billion over an eight-year period.''
 William K. Reilly, former head of the Environmental Protection Agency and chairman of the ClimateWorks board, said the foundation's technical assistance could be as effective as government agreements. 
 ''Best practices make sense,'' Mr. Reilly said. ''We are asking people to do things that are in their own economic self-interest and also benefit energy efficiency and the planet.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An advanced windows test facility in Berkeley helps ClimateWorks develop ''best practices'' for the global climate change effort.
 Hal Harvey, chief executive of the ClimateWorks Foundation, helps developers and architects make good energy decisions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EMISSIONS (76%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



154 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Putin in Perpetuity?

DATELINE: It has long been obvious that Vladimir Putin 

 BODY:
-- the current prime minister and former president of Russia -- craves his dominant hold on power. Still, it was disconcerting to hear him signal publicly on Thursday that he might seek the presidency again in 2012. 
 Mr. Putin displayed a master politician's coyness in addressing the issue at a public forum where he took scores of questions. Would he run again? ''I'll think about it,'' he replied. Asked at another point if it was time to relax after decades of government service, he said: ''Don't hold your breath.''
 A lot could happen between now and then. Politicians change their minds all the time. Mr. Putin could decide to stay as prime minister and have his sidekick, Dmitri Medvedev, the current president, run again for president. At a minimum, Mr. Putin may be encouraging speculation about his political future to enhance his influence -- or to divert attention from more important matters like economic reform or the demographic crisis facing Russia. 
 Whether or not the two men trade jobs or try to keep the ones they have, Mr. Putin -- who first became president in 2000 and would be eligible to run again in 2012 -- could conceivably stay in power until at least 2024.
 That's not the usual tenure for a democratically elected leader of a country. But under Mr. Putin, Russia has strayed far from the democratic model. It is a place where journalists and human rights activists are murdered with impunity, political and business opponents are thrown in jail and independent media have been seriously degraded.
 Still, Mr. Putin has been in office, either as president or prime minister, during a significant recovery both in terms of Russia's economy and its standing in international affairs. While experts debate how much credit is due Mr. Putin for all of that (Russia's greatest boon resulted from a rise in oil prices that he did not control), he is very popular at home.
 We think a system with more vigorous political competition among more candidates and offering a healthy debate about government policies would produce better results. So the prospect of Mr. Putin in perpetuity is not encouraging. Obviously, when the time comes, who leads Russia is a decision for Russians to make. And the United States must work to find common ground with whoever is elected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); JOURNALISM (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: DMITRY MEDVEDEV (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



155 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Devices to Take Textbooks Beyond Text

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG. 
E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NEWSPAPERS and novels are moving briskly from paper to pixels, but textbooks have yet to find the perfect electronic home. They are readable on laptops and smartphones, but the displays can be eye-taxing. Even dedicated e-readers with their crisp printlike displays can't handle textbook staples like color illustrations or the videos and Web-linked supplements publishers increasingly supply.
 Now there is a new approach that may adapt well to textbook pages: two-screen e-book readers with a traditional e-paper display on one screen and a liquid-crystal display on the other to render graphics like science animations in color. 
 The dual screens are linked by a central processor so that, for example, a link on the e-paper display can open on the color screen.
 A two-screen device called the eDGe will be released by enTourage Systems in February for $490, said Doug Atkinson, vice president of marketing and business development for the company, based in McLean, Va. 
 The dual screens of the eDGe open like a book with facing pages. The e-reader screen is 9.7 inches diagonally; the color touch screen on the liquid-crystal display is 10.1 inches. The two screens interact in many ways. For instance, if the textbook on the black-and-white e-reader displays an illustration from a file that is in color, ''the machine can move the illustration over to the LCD and run it there in color,'' Mr. Atkinson said.
 The e-reader screen is used with a stylus that can underline or highlight text, take notes in the margin, pull up a blank piece of e-paper for solving math problems, or touch a link for a video of a chemical interaction that is then displayed on the LCD screen.
 The virtual keyboard is on the LCD side, as well as an audio recorder and a video camera. The device uses Google's Android operating system, so other applications like word processing can be added, Mr. Atkinson said.
 The two screens swivel, so that the LCD screen can be tucked beneath the e-reader if space is tight. Then the device can be used as a note-taking tablet, or it can be flipped over to the other side for sending e-mail.
 Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., said that the enTourage device was part of the next generation of e-readers, which would be hybrids. ''They won't just be a netbook or a tablet or an e-reader,'' Ms. Epps said, ''but a combination that will bend the categories consumers expect from electronics.''
 E-textbooks have special requirements that can be addressed by hybrids like the eDGe, she explained. ''The devices have to render graphics faithfully, ideally with color,'' she said, ''and students should have the ability to take extensive notes and share them,'' as well as have access to whatever interactive elements publishers provide. 
 Until such features come to market, Ms. Epps said, ''electronic book readers are great for reading novels, but they aren't right for textbooks.''
 Allen Weiner, a research vice president with Gartner, said that many students would simply read e-textbooks on their laptops. But even so, dual-screen devices are likely to find a place in the market, he said, provided the models have fairly large screens for both displays. ''The window you need for effective video interaction doesn't have to be giant,'' Mr. Weiner said, ''but it needs to be a decent size'' so that readers can click on a link and find out more. In addition, students can use the hybrids to take notes and underline text directly on the screen using the stylus, something they can't do on most laptops.
 Two other new devices also use dual screens. Barnes & Noble's new Nook e-book reader ($259) has a small LCD touch screen beneath the reading display to be used primarily for navigation. Another device not yet on the market, the Alex from Spring Design in Cupertino, Calif., has a 3.5-inch LCD for browsing the Internet and interacting with the e-reader content. Spring Design will announce pricing in January, said Eric Kmiec, the company's vice president for sales and marketing.
 ''You will probably soon see combined e-reading devices with LCDs that are slightly smaller than the enTourage, but larger than the Alex,'' Mr. Weiner predicted.
 Electronic textbooks may one day offer a convenient way to study, said Ms. Epps, literally lightening a student's load. That's already happened at Catholic University of America in Washington, where Robert A. Destro, a professor of law, and his students are testing a version of the eDGe. Professor Destro has 13 textbooks on his device. 
 ''It's wonderful not to have to lug those books around,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The eDGe has an e-reader screen on the left and an LCD screen on the right for color displays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENTOURAGE SYSTEMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (79%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); ANIMATION (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (73%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (53%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (55%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



156 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; GRIST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: From a Land Without Jeans, Denim Diplomacy

 BODY:
Move over, Levi's.
 A limited run of designer jeans labeled ''Made in North Korea'' went on sale late last week at the trendy Stockholm department store PUB, the first foray into Western fashion for the reclusive Communist state. 
 Marketed under the Noko brand by three 20-something Swedish entrepreneurs, the jeans sell for 1,500 kronor ($220), more than two year's wages for the average North Korean. No matter, jeans are banned in the country as a symbol of United States imperialism.
 Noko's founders spent more than a year trying to get into the planet's last Stalinist state. It probably didn't hurt that Sweden is one of only seven countries to have an embassy there. But once inside, their difficulties continued.
 ''There is a political gap, a mental gap and an economic gap,'' Jacob Astrom, one of the Swedish businessmen, told Reuters.
 They were rebuffed by North Korea's biggest textile operation before striking a deal with North Korea's largest mining company, which has a small textile subsidiary. They sealed the contract to produce 1,100 pairs of jeans over shots of Swedish vodka and handshakes.
 ''What really motivated us wasn't the money but to open doors,'' Jakob Ohlsson, another of the entrepreneurs, told The Associated Press. ''There are normal people there, but all we've really seen from it is their military marches on TV.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); TEXTILE MILLS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (72%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



157 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; METRICS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Winners and Losers as the Dollar Falls

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
Since 2002, the dollar has lost about a third of its value compared with other currencies. That doesn't sound good -- and it's not, if you're a Japanese exporter or an American tourist. But it is potentially great news for American workers. 
 Experts argue about the many effects of the dollar's fall and what it says about confidence in the American economy, with its decades-old trade deficit and mounting national debt. But there are also more predictable effects replayed in each decline. Below, a falling dollar scorecard.
 Last week, as President Obama convened a summit meeting on unemployment, the devalued dollar was already doing its part to create jobs by making American goods cheaper abroad.
 ''I don't think anything they can come up with is as powerful as the dollar declining,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a Harvard economist. ''It's a good short-term boost. Every country's manufacturing sector loves it when the currency has a moderate depreciation.''
 But the benefit to American exporters goes only so far. Some economists say it hurts industry in the long run: companies can reap the rewards of the falling dollar without improving products or productivity. When the dollar rebounds, they falter anew. (And on Friday, the dollar did rebound a bit. A suprisingly strong jobs report prompted the currency's biggest rally since January.)
 A falling dollar ''might slow the rate of deindustrialization, but not much,'' Mr. Rogoff said. And too much currency decline will start to raise prices, then wages -- a dependable recipe for inflation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Who Gains From a Falling Dollar
What American Households Gain
Who Loses on a Falling Dollar
What American Households Lose (Sources: Kenneth S. Rogoff, Harvard University
Michael T. Darda, MKM Partners
John Williamson, Peterson Institute for International Economics
 Bloomberg (chart)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); DEVALUATION (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



158 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours: South Beach, Fla.

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
SOUTH BEACH gets a lot of abuse from residents. Too much cologne, critics say; too expensive, too crowded. But like other American meccas of decadence, SoBe still has an irresistible, democratic pull. For everyone from the pale Iowa retiree to the Bentley-driving rapper, it remains the place to strut shamelessly. And even jaded locals still indulge. They may not be taking photos. And perhaps they'll be dressed a bit more causally, but bet on this: They're checking in with the classics and keeping up with the latest trends like everyone else -- except they don't need to flaunt it.
 Friday
5 p.m. 1) ON THE BOARDWALK 
 The beach never gets old. For the timeless South Beach experience, amble along to the wooden boardwalk that extends from 21st to 47th Street before city planners replace the raised platform with a ground-level path. Take in the views: on one side is the ocean; the other, the crumbling, yet-to-be-renovated Art Deco hotels that offer a Pompeii-like look back at Miami Beach when diving boards and peach walls still dominated. Then dive into the present at an of-the-moment spot: the rooftop pool at the Gansevoort South (2377 Collins Avenue; 305-604-1000; www.gansevoortsouth.com). Sip a SoBe Carnival (cachaca, pineapple juice and muddled basil; $13) and enjoy the views of either the ocean or the party people.
 7 p.m. 2)MUSIC, NOT DANCING
 House. Salsa. Hip-hop. South Beach has many soundtracks, but few musical institutions here are as beloved as the New World Symphony (541 Lincoln Road; 305-673-3330; www.nws.edu), an orchestral academy founded by Michael Tilson Thomas, music director of the San Francisco Symphony. Providing mixed-media extravaganzas one night, free student concerts the next, it manages to be both high-brow and accessible. Be sure to compare the symphony's current Art Deco home at the Lincoln Theater to its future headquarters: the building designed by Frank Gehry going up a block north.
 9 p.m. 3)DESIGNER EXCURSION
 You could follow the herd to Prime Italian (101 Ocean Drive; 305-695-8484; www.primeitalianmiami.com), where Kobe meatballs are a specialty. But lighter, slow-food fare (at better prices) can be found across Biscayne Bay at Fratelli Lyon (4141 Northeast Second Avenue; 305-572-2901; www.fratellilyon.com). Just the fresh cheeses and artisanal olive oil make it worth the trip. Plus, you'll leave with energy to dance. So go straight to the Florida Room at the Delano (1685 Collins Avenue; 305-674-6152; www.delano-hotel.com), where on most Fridays Angela Laino belts out funk and soul backed by a band rich with brass.
 Saturday
 7 a.m. 4)SANDY STRETCH
 In the 10-plus years that October Rose (yes, a real person) has offered yoga on South Beach (www.yogasouthbeach.org), it has become a 365-day-a-year institution. Sometimes there are as many as 20 people near the usual lifeguard stand at Third Street, each donating about $5, but on one recent morning, only a single limber student could be seen: Tommy Tune, the song-and-dance legend who happens to be a regular. ''This is my real love on South Beach,'' he said, looking relaxed after his latest session, ''it's yoga.'' And since all that locust posing will make you hungry, head to A La Folie (516 Espanola Way; 305-538-4484; www.alafoliecafe.com), a hidden French gem where a butter-sugar crepe with a cappuccino costs only $6.50.
 11 a.m. 5)VINTAGE AND VIXENS
 Sure, you could buy something new. The malls would love you for it. But why not be both cool and conservationist by going consignment? Fly Boutique (650 Lincoln Road; 305-604-8508; www.flyboutiquevintage.com) is overflowing with few-of-a-kind items, from Emilio Pucci scarves for less than $100 to classic Levis and even Louis Vuitton luggage large enough for a move to Europe (though the trunk will cost you $1,495). Beatnix (1149 Washington Street; 305-532-8733; www.beatnixmiami.com) offers a costume-centric mix, heavy on the polyester. It's also where South Beach's vixen bartenders buy their get-ups. For $149, Beatnix will make a corset-tutu combo.
 1 p.m. 6)COOK BOOKS
 Miamians sometimes joke that their most popular independent bookseller -- Books and Books -- should be renamed Book and Book because of how little residents read. Regardless, the food and service at its South Beach cafe (927 Lincoln Road; 305-532-3222; www.booksandbooks.com) are as consistent as Carl Hiaasen's sense of humor. The Key West crab cakes ($12.95) are rich in flavor, but not too heavy, and the homemade cupcakes and Illy espresso might explain why Malcolm Gladwell and other writers spend hours lollygagging at the outdoor tables. Or maybe it really is the books: after all, the store did expand last year.
 3 p.m. 7)FORE!
 Now it's time for some brawn. Try hitting a large bucket of balls ($12) at Miami Beach Golf Club (2301 Alton Road; 305-532-3350; www.miamibeachgolfclub.com). As you hook your drive toward the not-so-distant Atlantic, try to imagine the view in 1923, when the course opened, or during World War II, when the Army rented the course for $1 a day and tossed smoke grenades all over the greens.
 8 p.m. 8)GO GATSBY
 Travel back in time again. First stop, the Betsy Hotel (1440 Ocean Drive; 305-531-6100; www.thebetsyhotel.com), newly renovated to capture an old-fashioned charm that flappers could appreciate -- especially in the surrounding sea of neon. The hotel's restaurant, BLT Steak (305-673-0044; www.bltsteak.com), part of the upscale steakhouse chain, essentially sits in the lobby. All the better for watching the wealthy and established mix with the young and skimpy. The popovers and aged beef aren't bad either, though prices are best forgotten in a drunken haze: dinner for two with wine and dessert costs around $170.
 11 p.m. 9)HIGHS AND LOWS
 Remember when the villains of ''Goldfinger'' cheated at cards, or when Tony Montana in ''Scarface'' declared ''this is paradise'' by the pool? It was at the Fontainebleau (4441 Collins Avenue; 305-538-2000; www.fontainebleau.com). And after a two-year, $1 billion renovation that may end up bankrupting the owners, the FB is back. If you can get past the velvet rope, sashay downstairs into Liv, the hotel nightclub where weekends usually include a big celebrity (Jennifer Lopez was a recent visitor). If that fails, drink martinis in the lobby, designed by Morris Lapidus, which was also restored. The famous bowtie-tile floors remain, as does the staircase to nowhere, designed solely for grand entrances. Finish the night down to earth, with some cheap beer and pool at Mac's Club Deuce (222 14th Street; 305-531-6200), a classic dive bar that draws drunks, drag queens, cops and traveling executives.
 Sunday
 9 a.m. 10)THE DEEP END
 South Pointe Park, at the tip of South Beach, has been treated to a $22 million facelift, and while it looks fantastic, some of the best sights are in the water. The pier is a great place for snorkeling, surfing or fishing, with stingrays, bright tropical fish and lots of colorful locals. You can rent a full snorkeling package for $20 a day at Tarpoon Dive Center (300 Alton Road; 305-532-1445; www.tarpoondivecenter.com).
 12 p.m. 11)SOAK AND GO
 Reliable regeneration can be found with brunch and a good cleansing at the Standard hotel's spa (www.standardhotels.com), part of a 1920s motor lodge that Andre Balazs turned into a holistic oasis a few years ago. Massages start at $125 for an hour, but for $25, try soaking in a private tub overlooking Biscayne Bay, where cinnamon, mint and honeysuckle flower will attempt to detoxify your soul, or at least your body. Finish up by the pool with an ahi tuna nicoise salad ($18) and an Arnold Palmer -- that would be half lemonade, half iced tea for all you non-Floridians. 
 THE BASICS
 With most major airlines flying to Miami, getting to South Beach is easy, which is part of its appeal. A recent online search found American flights from La Guardia starting at about $200 for travel in mid-December. Taxis from the airport to anywhere south of 71st Street in Miami Beach are a flat $32. 
 Despite the recession, several hotels have recently opened. Among the swankiest is the W South Beach (2201 Collins Avenue; 305-938-3000; www.wsouthbeach.com), where every room offers ocean views, a Bose sound system and enough gray marble in the bathrooms to make you feel like you're in a hamam. Rooms start at $384. 
 The Gansevoort South (2377 Collins Avenue; 305-604-1000; www.gansevoortsouth.com) has 334 rooms with slightly higher prices, from $395, in a building it renovated but still shares with longtime residents (who use a separate entrance). The enormous pools are a highlight. 
 Midbeach -- which means more cab rides -- sits the Fontainebleau and its $1 billion renovation (4441 Collins Avenue; 305-538-2000; www.fontainebleau.com). Rooms start at $429 plus a $12.95 resort fee. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM LEFT: The in-fashion rooftop pool and bar at the Gansevoort South hotel
Mac's Club Deuce, a classic dive bar with a mixed clientele
 sunrise yoga on the beach, a daily activity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: SOUTH BEACH, MIAMI, FLORIDA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (86%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); RAP MUSIC (77%); TRENDS (70%); DANCE (69%); THEATER (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (66%); CHEESE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



159 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 45A

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Abu Dhabi Shares Profits From Parking Meters

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS

 BODY:
When Mayor Richard M. Daley traveled to Abu Dhabi in February, his office announced that the trip was intended to sell Chicago as a place to do business. Left unsaid was that that Persian Gulf emirate was about to become one of the biggest investors in a deal to lease Chicago's parking meters for 75 years. 
 The city signed the now-controversial, $1.15 billion lease with a new company called Chicago Parking Meters LLC in February, and city officials said two funds of the Morgan Stanley investment fund made up 99 percent of the new company, with ''several other entities'' sharing the remaining 1 percent.
In fact, a Chicago News Cooperative investigation has found that investment arms of the oil-rich Abu Dhabi government hold more than a 25 percent stake in the company that privatized the city's 36,000 parking meters. German financial company Allianz also has a large minority interest, and the remaining 50.1 percent is held by partnerships assembled by Morgan Stanley. 
 The participation of Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth funds and other international investors exposes the level of sophistication of the money behind the city's parking meter deal. Mayor Daley and other proponents of the contract argue that it is too soon to know if the parking investors will enjoy solid returns, but the players in the Chicago parking company are known for their acumen for profitable long-term deals. 
 Indeed, when the government of Dubai recently encountered economic troubles, the financial markets looked to Dubai's cash-rich neighbors in Abu Dhabi for help. And in the case of the parking contract, the parking meter company projects a net income of about $58 million in 2010 , after this year more than doubling what the meters had brought in for the city. 
 A year has passed since aldermen hurriedly approved the privatization deal, but the issue remains a hot topic at City Hall. The mayor won City Council backing last week to balance his 2010 budget with almost $600 million from the upfront parking company payment, meaning almost all of the windfall will be spent within the first two years of the deal. 
 Mr. Daley has heatedly disputed the notion that the new company is poised to make big profits that the city should have earned by keeping the meters in public hands. While debate has raged over the deal's true worth, the parking company has sought to keep its shareholders out of the spotlight. 
 Mayor Daley said Saturday he did not discuss the parking deal with the new shareholders during his meetings with them in Abu Dhabi. ''Who owns it, owns it, doesn't matter,'' he said. ''There is no trickery here.''
 When the city announced the deal, it emphasized the role of Morgan Stanley, an old line Wall Street firm, in putting together the new company. Entities controlled by Morgan Stanley filed more than a dozen economic disclosure statements with the city in the days before the Council's December 2008 vote on the agreement. Those documents did not show the complete ownership picture, but company officials revealed interests held by pension funds and insurance companies in Texas, Australia, France, Denmark and Sweden.
 When the deal closed in February, however, a new batch of disclosure statements was filed with the city. Those documents, obtained by the Chicago News Cooperative last week, provide a significantly different picture.
 According to the most recent filings, partnerships assembled by Morgan Stanley have a 50.1 percent stake in the parking company through capital provided by entities like the Teacher Retirement System of Texas, the Victorian Fund Management Corporation of Australia and Danish pension fund company PKA. The other 49.9 percent belongs to a company almost evenly divided between Allianz and Tannadice Investments LLC.
 Tannadice is a ''wholly owned subsidiary of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, which is a public institution wholly owned by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi,'' according to city records. Another fund of the Abu Dhabi government owns an additional 3 percent stake through one of the Morgan partnerships.
 The highly publicity-shy Abu Dhabi Investment Authority is among the world's largest sovereign wealth funds, formed to invest the surplus revenues of that Persian Gulf emirate's government. The chairman of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority's board of directors is Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the president of the United Arab Emirates and ruler of Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital, according to the fund's Web site. 
 Besides the interests of investors from the United States, Australia, and Europe, Morgan Stanley reported a stake in the parking meter company held by an entity called Cavendish Limited. The documents listed Cavendish at an address at the high-rise Silver Tower, near the waterfront of Abu Dhabi.
 Cavendish is a subsidiary of a government fund called the Abu Dhabi Investment Council, according to corporate records filed with the Hong Kong government by a Chinese company that received a $50 million investment from Cavendish last year. 
 Ever since the 2006 controversy surrounding the proposed sale of management operations at six American ports to a company based in the U.A.E., funds like the Abu Dhabi Investment Council have become even more eager to avoid attention on their foreign investments, said Patrick Flaherty, managing director of Amadan International, a firm based in Washington that researches sovereign wealth funds. 
 Mr. Flaherty said he was not surprised to see the Abu Dhabi Investment Council do business under monikers like Cavendish and Tannadice. ''They tend to pick a lot of Western names for their subsidiaries,'' he said. ''They are trying to stay under the radar.'' 
 When Cavendish made a huge investment in a joint real estate venture in Britain, its partners declined to make the connection to Abu Dhabi, announcing merely that as much as $396 million would be invested by ''a wholly owned subsidiary of a major gulf institution.''
 The deal for the parking meter system closed on Feb. 13, the same month Mr. Daley visited Abu Dhabi with a delegation from Chicago. According to a news release from World Business Chicago, which organized the trip, the mayor's delegation met with officials of the Abu Dhabi Investment Council, who ''expressed strong interest in Chicago and its investment opportunities.''
 In its news release on the trip, World Business Chicago quoted Mr. Daley as saying, ''We have a lot to gain by strengthening our ties with the United Arab Emirates.'' Officials with the Abu Dhabi Investment Council did not return calls, while the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority spokesman, Erik Portanger, declined comment. 
 At Allianz Capital Partners, the spokeswoman, Petra Kruell, confirmed the firm as an investor in the parking company. But Ms. Kruell added, ''We are not in charge of operations.''
 Morgan Stanley officials declined comment, referring all questions to Avis LaVelle, the former press secretary for Mr. Daley who was hired by the parking company. 
 ''Chicago Parking Meters LLC has many minority investors who have no controlling interest in the company nor any authority or responsibility for the day-to-day operations,'' Ms. LaVelle said.
 Minutes from a recent Chicago Parking Meters LLC board meeting show that one Abu Dhabi Investment Authority executive and two Allianz officials were among the board members present when officials discussed revenue figures from the meters and expressed a desire to increase enforcement against parking scofflaws. 
 Also at the meeting were five board members from Morgan Stanley as well as observers from Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Allianz. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A private company projects a net income of about $58 million in 2010 from the city's meters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) CHART: Parking Rates Projected To Rise: Motorists who park at metered spaces in Chicago will continue to feel the impact of rising rates, which the Daley administration agreed to under its $1.15 billion lease with Chicago Parking Meters LLC. (Sources: City of Chicago
 Chicago Parking Meters LLC documents) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (76%); BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); FLUID METER & COUNTING DEVICE MFG (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); ALLIANZ SE (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); ALV (FRA) (56%); ALV (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



160 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Send In the Song-and-Dance Gal

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
ON screen Catherine Zeta-Jones has been a famous smoulderer, a one-woman heat source. When Antonio Banderas unfastens her bodice in ''The Mask of Zorro'' -- the 1998 movie that introduced her to most Americans, including her husband, Michael Douglas -- you feel he ought to be wearing oven mitts. Watching her slither in her jewel-thief cat suit in ''Entrapment'' (1999), Sean Connery visibly liquefies. 
 It was this quality, the sultry glamour she brings even to cellphone ads, that Trevor Nunn had in mind when he cast her as Desiree, her first Broadway role, in his revival of ''A Little Night Music,'' which also stars Angela Lansbury and Alexander Hanson and opens at the Walter Kerr Theater on Dec. 13. For good measure she has been equipped with a fiery red wig, and when she makes her first sustained appearance, performing in a little snippet of play within the play, it's as if a gas jet had suddenly flared. 
 ''A Little Night Music,'' with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and a book by Hugh Wheeler, is in large part about aging and mortality, and traditionally the part of Desiree, a famous actress at a turning point in her career, has gone to someone older than Ms. Zeta-Jones, who is 40 but looks younger. Glynis Johns was 49 when she created the role on Broadway and gave the part a hint of someone clinging to her past. 
 But Mr. Nunn said recently that a noticeably younger, sexier Desiree was important to his conception of the show, which ended its acclaimed London run in July. He went back to the source of ''A Little Night Music,'' the Ingmar Bergman film ''Smiles of a Summer Night'' (1955), and there, he said, the Desiree ''is a wonderfully glamorous actress -- you'd say she was 39 or so.'' 
 He added: ''Everything of course makes sense when that's the age group. She's at the point where she has to decide whether she still wants to be living out of a suitcase or whether she wants a life that's more settled. But Desiree is pretty much the sex symbol of her age. She's on all the posters, the text says. She's Hedda Gabler, she's Nora in 'A Doll's House.' She's an actress who plays roles where the sensibility is sexual and glamorous.'' 
 The other thing Mr. Nunn knew about Ms. Zeta-Jones, besides her glamour and sexiness, was that she was, as he put it, a ''song and dance girl, a real theater animal.'' For most Americans her Oscar-winning performance as the vamping, song-belting Velma Kelly in ''Chicago'' was a revelation, but in fact she grew up in the musical theater, and movie stardom came her way somewhat by accident. At 22 she was cast as a lead in ''The Darling Buds of May,'' a British mini-series, and overnight became so popular that, as she said, laughing, ''I could never ride the Underground again.''
 Mr. Nunn recalled auditioning Ms. Zeta Jones, then 18 or 19, for a part in the Andrew Lloyd-Webber musical ''Aspects of Love.'' ''I was tremendously impressed, but she was slightly older than the role called for.''
 ''He wrote me a letter,'' Ms. Zeta-Jones, who in person is warm (but not scorching) and unpretentious, said last week over brunch on the Upper West Side. ''He said, 'You did a wonderful audition, but you're too pretty for the role.' '' 
 She laughed and added, ''I'd take that any day now, but at the time. ...'' She shook her head and used an un-newspaperlike expression, giving it a little Welsh emphasis. These days Ms. Zeta-Jones, who grew up in Mumbles, a little town outside Swansea, has pretty much tamped down her accent, except when talking to her mother, and then, according to her husband, the two of them sound as if they're not even speaking English. 
 Recalling her teenage years in London, Ms. Zeta-Jones said: ''I was a chorus girl. That's all I ever wanted -- to be onstage. I would queue up for auditions and then change my costume or put on a different leotard and audition again. It might take me two tries, but I always got the job. I figured out what they wanted.''
 When Ms. Zeta-Jones was 5, her mother sent her to the Hazel Johnson School of Dancing, in the church hall just down the street, to channel her energy. At 9 she won a nationwide audition for ''Annie,'' and moved to London with a chaperone and a tutor. ''I loved it.'' she said. ''I loved everything about it.'' At 11 she was a British tap-dancing champion, and at 19, cast as an understudy, she took over the lead in a West End production of ''42nd Street.''
 Almost ever since, she said, and especially after ''Chicago,'' she has wanted to return to the stage, but for one reason or another the right part never came along. She was hitting golf balls on a driving range in Canada last summer when Mr. Nunn called about ''A Little Night Music.'' 
 ''He said, 'Darling, I'd love you to do this, but I'm afraid I can't use your dancing,' '' she recalled. ''I said, 'Not even a split, not even a jete?' '' 
 She added: ''There's no jazzy hands, no high kicks, no fishnet stockings, but really that's what excited me. With most musicals you have to fill in the gaps, but here you have what's already a beautiful Chekhovian play, and the music is a bonus. The characterization is everything. It's not one of those shows where you can dig about three inches and come out the other end. You can keep digging and digging and digging.''
 Except for some waltzing, nobody in ''A Little Night Music'' dances much, and Desiree, though the center of the story, doesn't even sing as much as some of the others. She has one big number, which happens to be the only one that has escaped from the orbit of the show: ''Send In the Clowns.'' Even people who have never even heard of ''A Little Night Music'' know the Frank Sinatra version, the Barbra Streisand version, the Judy Collins version.
 Mr. Nunn compared it to the ''To be or not to be'' soliloquy in ''Hamlet.'' ''The first thing people say when they get to theater is 'Oh, I wonder what he'll do with ''To be or not to be,'' ' '' he said. ''They forget that it's just a speech in context.''
 The same is true with ''Send In the Clowns,'' he went on. ''It's not a torch song, it's not a stand-and-deliver. It's a song very much in context, and you have to be truthful with it. What you mustn't do is say to yourself, 'I've got to knock people's socks off, bring the house down.' '' He added: ''If people are going to hang on it and insist on making comparisons, there's just nothing you can do about that.''
 Ms. Zeta-Jones said Mr. Sondheim had advised her, ''Just speak it.'' She doesn't do that, exactly, but her version is low and thoughtful, full of regrets and second thoughts. 
 ''As an actor what do you do?'' she said. ''You try to make it your own.'' She deliberately didn't listen to any other versions, she added, just as she had made a point of not seeing ''Chicago'' before acting in it. ''It was never supposed to be a big song,'' she said. ''It's very intimate, about a woman being told that she's not going to be with the love of her life. How are you supposed to sing when you're that deflated?''
 Elsewhere in the show Ms. Zeta-Jones invests her part with a trouper's energy and a joyful theatricality that's appropriate for Desiree but may also be autobiographical. ''I'm just so happy to be there,'' she said after explaining that because of Hollywood economics she wasn't seeing many interesting movie parts these days. 
 ''I'd read the phone book with the people here, people of this caliber,'' she said. ''I feel at this point in my life I'm in my second chapter. You have to be quite frank with yourself. There's that wonderful curve, and then this is the way it is: the second act. It's great that now I can go back to my roots but in a completely different way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Alexander Hanson and Catherine Zeta-Jones in Trevor Nunn's production of ''A Little Night Music,'' in which Ms. Zeta-Jones (right) is making her Broadway debut. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ETHAN HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); DANCE (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); THEATER (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: Little Night Music, A (Play)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



161 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: A Bar-and-Grill Chain Choosier Than the Ivy League

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
STATISTICALLY, it was more difficult to land a job at the Applebee's restaurant that opened this summer at Fordham Plaza in the Bronx than it was to get into the freshman class that entered Harvard a few weeks later: more than 6,500 people applied for 120 jobs (the staff has since been whittled to about 80). Most work for tips or minimum wage, and have the opportunity to buy health insurance through the company's group plan. 
 Applicants to the new Applebee's, one of 20 now open in New York City, included people with college degrees, people who had worked at high-end restaurants, people who had applied for dozens of other jobs -- perhaps not surprising in the Bronx, the county with the highest unemployment rate in the state, 13.4 percent. About a half-dozen of the new hires came from other Applebee's locations. ''In this economy,'' said Tim McKinley, a waiter, ''you walk out of your job every day with money in your pocket; that's a privilege.'' Here are a few of the lucky 1.8 percent who made it. SAM DOLNICK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KATHERINE JIMENEZ, 22 Hostess LIVES IN Parkchester, the Bronx
LAST JOB: Auto Zone cashier/clerk OUT OF WORK FOR ''The worst four months of my life.'' PLANS To become a medical assistant and leave New York. ''I want a house away from people.'' ''Before coming across Applebee's, I had applied to B.J.'s, Target, the restaurant Friday's and many other little stores. I didn't have much luck. No one was hiring, or if I did an application they would say, 'Oh, it will take about a week.' But no phone calls, nothing.''
JOSEPH M. FIGUEROA, 22 Line Cook
LIVES IN: Crotona Park East, the Bronx LAST JOB: Two: graveyard shift manager at a laundromat and plasma
TV installer OUT OF WORK FOR Four months
SPECIALTY: Steak with shrimp and Parmesan
''I come in early
I leave late. I know they're going to see me. I don't have to ask for a raise -- they'll see it. I'm not allergic to nothing. I don't have no kids. Everyone has kids in my family, even the 17-year-olds.''
SAIT SARR, 30, Line Cook
LIVES IN: Grand Concourse, the Bronx LAST JOB Applebee's line cook, New Rochelle (he was fired after clashing with the manager)
OUT OF WORK FOR: Three months
CAME TO U.S. IN 1999, from Gambia ''I want to do aviation management. If I graduate, I can go home and continue to develop Gambia because we need educated people to help the country.''
LATIFA JACKSON, 19 Server
LIVES IN: Hell's Kitchen
LAST JOB: Day care assistant
OUT OF WORK FOR: Two months
ASPIRATION: To be on ''America's Next Top Model'' ''I call my son 'Applebaby' because he's always at Applebee's. He eats macaroni and cheese, mashed potatoes. He knows what he likes. My managers like him. They bring him apple juice and stuff. They nicknamed him 'Applebaby,' so that's his name.''
SUSY S. QUINTERO, 24 Manager
LIVES IN: Glendale, Queens
LAST JOB: Cashier, Abercrombie & Fitch
OUT OF WORK FOR: Six weeks
TATTOOS: She has 14, including her niece's birthday on her knuckles, her dog Romeo's name, a geisha and a pirate. ''Because of the way the economy is, we had so many people willing to do anything. Even if they had worked at a high-end restaurant, they came to apply for line cook positions. On the first day, we saw 700 people.''
FIANELY RODRIGUEZ, 21 Hostess
LIVES IN: Corona, Queens
LAST JOB: Pool hall bartender
OUT OF WORK FOR: Three days
COMMUTE: 1 hour 40 minutes by subway
 45 minutes by car ''I rushed to get my license and a car because I hate the subway. One time, I slammed into a wall. I was driving home and it was raining, and my car skidded out of control. Luckily there was no one around me. My boyfriend says I have a heavy foot, but driving relaxes me.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%)

COMPANY: APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); GAMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



162 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Price Cuts of a Princely Kind

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
THE downtown market has the largest inventory of unsold luxury properties in Manhattan, but brokers say deals are being done on some of the most talked-about places in some of the most sought-after neighborhoods.
 Palazzo Chupi, five condominiums that the artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel built atop a former stable at 360 West 11th Street, has been the scene of considerable activity lately. Mr. Schnabel, who also has a studio in the building, has suffered through a year of embarrassing accounts of unsuccessful price cuts in the real estate blogs.
 But in October, the triplex penthouse with Venetian-style arches, once listed for $32.5 million, was sold for $10.5 million to William J. B. Brady, a banker at Credit Suisse. Mr. Brady had spent $15.5 million in the fall of 2008 for a slightly smaller apartment in Palazzo Chupi. 
 The final condo being sold by Mr. Schnabel, a 3,960-square-foot duplex with three bedrooms and three balconies, is said to be in contract negotiations. The asking price was $12.95 million; Peter McCuen & Associates has the listing.
 And now brokers say an apartment in the Chupi bought by the actor Richard Gere for $12 million has just been resold, for about $1 million less than he paid for it. Richard Orenstein, of Halstead Property's SoHo office, who handled the sale, declined to comment. 
 Mr. Gere bought the apartment in fall 2007 as the luxury market was approaching a peak. Brokers say that it appears that Mr. Gere actually got a bargain, perhaps in exchange for adding celebrity pizazz to the palazzo.
 The apartment has nearly 3,500 square feet of space, including four bedrooms, along with a small balcony and two larger terraces connected to the apartment by French doors. 
 But Mr. Gere, who between films has immersed himself in country life -- with a house, a bed-and-breakfast, and now a dispute over some trees he chopped down on his property in Westchester -- showed little interest in his Chupi pied-a-terre. 
 He put the apartment on the market in April 2008 for $17.995 million, and the following October, in the midst of the financial crisis, cut the price to $15 million. 
 The Gere sale was completed just as the appraiser Jonathan Miller reported that the largest backlog of unsold apartments in Manhattan is of the expensive downtown variety. Mr. Miller defines downtown as south of 34th Street from the Hudson River to Fifth Avenue, and south of 42nd Street from Fifth Avenue to the East River. He found that at the current sales rate, it would take 27 months to sell the existing inventory of condos listed at $5 million and up, and more than three years to sell the current stock of downtown co-ops in the same price range.
 But brokers point to recent movement downtown. 
 Another former stable, at 11 Spring Street, just off the Bowery, sold for $19.5 million, a significant sale -- though far less than the $39.8 million once asked.
 It was not clear whether the developers, who paid $12 million for the graffiti-splattered wreck in 2006, and spent millions to convert it to luxury housing, made a profit. 
 Brokers also report a deal taking shape on an unusual 8,000-square-foot duplex penthouse loft space at 140 Perry Street that was once listed for $19.9 million. They say the apartment, though not officially on the market, has been shown by Jan Hashey, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman. She did not return several phone calls.
 And in the West Village, a town house at 26 Bank Street owned by James D. Huniford, the interior designer, sold for $7.25 million, nearly $1 million below the asking price, property records say.
 Leonard Steinberg, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that brokers showing larger apartments in hot neighborhoods like the Village were busy, with a shortage of properties and a ''surplus of buyers.''
 ''I tell people if you have a good apartment in the Village, you don't have to worry about a darn thing,'' he said. ''And the West Village is about as recession proof as any neighborhood I have ever seen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Gere 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



163 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; LA AUTO SHOW 2011 MAZDA 2; Pg. 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Mazda's Deuce, U.S.-Bound at Last

BYLINE: By TORI TELLEM

 BODY:
Introduced on Wednesday: 2011 Mazda 2.
 Is it real? This little nugget has been sold in Australia, Europe and Japan since 2007 and is now finally -- finally! -- making its way to the United States (and Canada). 
 What they said: ''The new Mazda 2 reflects the close attention paid to minimizing weight through its smaller body shell, optimization of the structure, extensive use of high-tensile steel in its body and many other weight-saving measures,'' according to press materials. 
 What they didn't say: No mention of the old-but-new Mazda 2 already being halfway through a design cycle in the rest of the world. Mazda also chose not to mention that the car shares a platform -- and looks -- with the 2011 Ford Fiesta, which made its debut about an hour later.
 What makes it tick: With all the brevity of a tweet, Mazda simply dropped the curtain and revealed the car, stating nothing beyond the fact that this will be the most fuel-efficient vehicle in its showroom. Over at Ford, the information flowed more freely: The Fiesta will have a 119-horsepower 1.6-liter 4-cylinder with an estimated 40 m.p.g. Read the tea leaves and you'll see a small-displacement engine and high fuel economy for the Mazda 2.
 How much, how soon? Anticipate a late-summer arrival. A starting price in the mid-$15,000 range is a fair assumption.
 How's it look? Like the Fiesta. Or does the Fiesta look like the Mazda 2? Wait, that's like figuring out who is hotter, Megan Fox or Angelina Jolie. Oh, and just so we're clear -- neither car looks like Megan Fox or Angelina Jolie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%)

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP (91%)

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (88%); CANADA (88%); AUSTRALIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



164 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Britain's 3-Wheel Solution to Mobility for the Disabled

BYLINE: By TUDOR VAN HAMPTON

DATELINE: Momence, Ill. 

 BODY:
 IAN HELLINGS had heard of invalid cars, but he did not realize he was bidding on one. 
 ''I bought it by mistake,'' Mr. Hellings, a 62-year-old retired economics professor, said of the purchase he made on eBay five years ago. ''I just thought it was another cute little minicar.''
 At the time, the Australian-born collector was unaware that his latest acquisition, an odd single-seat conveyance with three wheels, was an artifact of British social policy. But it was not long before he embraced the car. 
 Today, Mr. Hellings is considered the world's most active collector of the motorized three-wheelers built after World War II under a government program that provided reliable transportation to Britain's wounded veterans and disabled citizens. 
 ''If he is not right now, he very soon will be the largest collector,'' said Stuart Cyphus, 28, who maintains the Invalid Carriage Register, a British organization that tracks these unusual vehicles and helps owners preserve them.
 No member of Congress -- at least none hoping to stay in Washington -- would dare suggest adding such a vehicle program to the health care reform legislation working its way through Congress. But the existence of invalid cars is a reminder of how far the British government once took its health care services. 
 In those less-sensitive times, the brand name of one model, Invacar, became a generic label for vehicles designed for invalids.
 ''I'm fascinated by it,'' said Mr. Hellings, who had his $180 eBay car shipped to his workshop here, about 55 miles south of Chicago, from England. He restored its fiberglass body shell and gave it a fresh coat of pale blue paint. 
 Though he has since acquired another two dozen trikes, that first one, an Invacar Model 70 from 1977, remains the centerpiece of his collection. Designed by A.C. Motors and built by both A.C. and Invacar Ltd., the Model 70 was the last model of invalid vehicles built under the health service's program, and it was the most common.
 ''It runs like a top,'' he said. ''Of the invalid carriages, this is probably the easiest one to find.''
 The car operation for the disabled began in 1948; government contracts were eventually signed with eight producers for three-wheelers built to its specifications. The early efforts were crude open-air affairs designed by committee, but over the years the designs evolved into enclosed cars. Model 70 cars like the ones in the Hellings collection ceased production in 1978; when the program was canceled, there were some 21,500 invalid cars in service.
 As three-wheelers, the invalid cars skirted some tax and licensing laws and were able to negotiate both roads and sidewalks. Still, police officers ticketed scofflaws who ignored a directive affixed to the dashboard: ''Passenger carrying is forbidden.''
 ''Officially, they have never been regarded as proper road vehicles,'' said Mr. Cyphus, who owns a rare 1949 Argson Electric, an open-air trike that preceded the Model 70. 
 Powered by a 600 cc Steyr-Puch gas engine in the rear and fitted with a belt-drive automatic transmission, Mr. Hellings's Model 70 sits inches off the ground. The doors tilt away from the body and slide forward for easy access. 
 The car has no foot pedals; controls for the accelerator, brakes and steering are on a motorcycle-style handlebar. ''This particular car was designed for a person who had lost the use of his legs,'' Mr. Hellings said. The Model 70 offered more than 50 variations of control arrangements.
 ''They were built specifically for the patient,'' explained Ken Weger, 61, a collector in Crystal Lake, Ill., who owns a 1969 A.C. Acedes with an L-shaped tiller so the controls could be operated with one hand -- probably made for an amputee.
 By the 1960s, the program's cars were painted the same shade of pale blue -- nicknamed Ministry Blue for the Ministry of Health -- so drivers could be easily recognized. But as war memories faded, the diminutive cars became eyesores. Able-bodied drivers gave them such nicknames as ''mobile roadblocks.'' People who still drove the boxy blue Invacars became the butt of welfare jokes.
 ''A lot of people see them as the ultimate comedy car,'' Mr. Cyphus explained.
 Regardless, many drivers loved their Invacars. They ''would look at them with the same faithful passion as their pet dog,'' he said.
 Marion Webb, 79, of London received her first invalid trike, an open-air Argson Runnymede, on Sept. 6, 1949, when she was just 19. Mrs. Webb remembers the date clearly because it was the first time she left home alone.
 ''I had to be pushed everywhere,'' Mrs. Webb said of life before the Argson. She was thrilled with the freedom: ''It was a nervous excitement -- I couldn't keep any food down for a week.'' 
 Mrs. Webb's Argson, with no weather protection, was not the most comfortable way to get around, especially in the rain. But it gave her, and thousands of others, mobility. The trikes helped disabled Britons shop for groceries, visit their doctor -- even fall in love.
 Mrs. Webb met her husband, Dennis, in September 1951. He was driving his invalid trike around London when he saw Mrs. Webb sitting on a Hyde Park bench. They married in March 1954, but they still celebrate their wedding anniversary in September.
 Mrs. Webb received periodic upgrades through the years, including a Model 70 in 1979 that she drove for 25 years.
 Of all the government-subsidized producers, it was A.C. Motors that became the most famous -- though not for its slow-moving invalid trikes.
 In 1962, A.C. adapted its Ace sports car for the American racecar driver Carroll Shelby, who brought international stardom to A.C. with the Cobra, an Ace powered by a Ford V-8.
 A.C.'s roadster had classic sporting style but its wimpy 2-liter engine left much to be desired on the track. The company's contract to supply Invacars to the government helped provide the resources for the Shelby project.
 A.C. was already a market leader in invalid cars. Last April, Mr. Hellings acquired what enthusiasts call their holy grail -- a 1950 A.C. All Weather. With its tapered nose, single headlight and bifold door, it was the first of Britain's mass-produced invalid cars to protect drivers from the elements.
 Flash fires and other problems plagued the ragtop car, though, and relatively few were produced. It was long believed to be extinct, but Mr. Cyphus found one in a shed in Essex several years ago. He kept its location secret and later helped Mr. Hellings buy it.
 After several rounds of negotiations, Mr. Hellings paid $1,600 for the car, which is en route to Illinois in a shipping container along with several other cars and spare parts. He plans to restore the A.C. in time for a large microcar meet in Chicago next August.
 Though only a few known survivors remained when Mr. Hellings bought his Model 70, more are surfacing. You did not have to be an invalid to drive them, Mr. Hellings said. ''And it's still inexpensive.''
 They usually are in good working condition because the government provided free maintenance -- a huge capital expense that eventually contributed to their downfall.
 ''We've never seen a poorly upkept invalid carriage,'' Mr. Weger said. ''It was a real gravy train.''
 Eventually, the money dried up. The government recalled the last few Invacars on the road in 2003 and began issuing weekly allowances to drivers to finance their own vehicles. Mrs. Webb's Model 70, retrieved in 2004, was the last in use. ''I suppose a bit of my life went that day,'' she said.
 Mrs. Webb's Model 70, which she said she never drove faster than 42 miles per hour, sits in the foyer of the Mobilise Organisation, a nonprofit club for drivers in Norfolk, England. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRINITY: From left, Ian Hellings's collection of three-wheelers includes a 1946 Nelco Solocar
handlebar controls were an option
Mr. Hellings with two Model 70 cars, a 1977 Invacar and a 1973 A.C.
 SOLO: No passengers were permitted. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



165 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; Pg. 137

LENGTH: 2853 words

HEADLINE: Generation Gap

BYLINE: By CHIP BROWN

 BODY:
Ten days after Don Fisher's death, it was not just the presence of the man you could feel in his office but also the power of his simple idea. The picture window on the 15th floor of the Gap's corporate headquarters opened onto a giant bow-and-arrow sculpture that Fisher and his wife had commissioned for Rincon Park as well as a million-dollar view of San Francisco Bay, where cargo ships as brightly colored as Gap T-shirts crossed under the Bay Bridge. His desk, an uncluttered Jules Leleu knockoff, was bare but for a phone, a mechanical pencil and a pad scribbled with lunch dates and unreturned calls. Also reclining there: an atypical wooden figure by Alexander Calder, circa 1928, the earliest piece in Fisher's major collection of contemporary art. The founder of the largest American clothing company was as eager to make a competition of art expertise as he had been of the apparel business, and any visiting curator or sculpture maven could expect a pop quiz: who do you think made that? In 13 years, only two people had guessed correctly. 
 The lower floors of the Robert A. M. Stern-designed headquarters were a warren of executive offices, most of which could double for a Gap store in a pinch. The atrium in the lobby had been constructed around a 60-foot-high, four-sided Richard Serra sculpture -- 118 radiantly enigmatic tons of rusted steel whose reverberant interior moved the rock star and Gap collaborator Bono to serenade the company's art specialist, Laura Satersmoen, with the aria ''Nessun dorma'' from Puccini's ''Turandot.'' 
 Fisher never stopped being amazed by the transformation of his company from a single store on Ocean Avenue in San Francisco into an iconic American brand. He was the oldest of three boys born to a family of secular Jews who rode horses and who believed, in the words of his grandmother, that one was closer to God on the back of a horse than in Hebrew school. Fisher was a middling student but a star athlete, captain of the swimming and water polo teams at Berkeley. After graduation, he reluctantly went to work in his parents' cabinet business but eventually got into real estate, where he proved a tough negotiator with an eye for a bargain. He was famously tight, seeing no reason to take a cab when he could take the subway. About clothes, he knew next to nothing.
 All the more remarkable, then, that on the day he died last September, a month after the Gap's 40th anniversary, at the age of 81, his personal net worth was estimated by Forbes magazine at $1.3 billion, and the store he'd started was now 3,145 stores encompassing 134,000 employees, five brands (among them Banana Republic and Old Navy) and, as of 2008, annual revenues of $14.5 billion. And all of it -- not just the 10 miles of shop windows and the 40 million square feet of retail real estate in 25 countries but the pervasive cultural influence, the infectious jingle, the ubiquitous logos, the landmark ads and innovative marketing that made Gap clothes synonymous with American style and fueled the khaki craze and helped create a new day of the week known as casual Friday -- all of it could be traced back to a eureka moment two years after the Summer of Love, when a precociously bald 40-year-old real estate developer couldn't find a pair of jeans that fit. 
 That was then. Though still as hard to miss as McDonald's or Starbucks, the Gap has been much easier to avoid. For the last five years the company has been wandering in a retail wilderness, losing market share, customers and that most priceless commodity of a fashion brand, cachet. Some of its troubles stem from the emergence of new competitors that have beaten the company at its own game, but much of what ails the Gap is self-inflicted, the result of distracted management, overaggressive store expansion and lackluster merchandising, marketing and design. Fisher -- who retired as chairman in 2004 but remained on the board along with his wife and co-founder, Doris, and their oldest son, Bob -- watched with alarm as the company's ''comps,'' or comparative same-store sales, began declining in 2005. 
 ''A five-year down cycle is longer than a down cycle should last,'' said Gap Inc.'s chairman and C.E.O., Glenn Murphy, who was hired in 2007. ''We can sit around and cry about it, but I say, Let's fix it. The brand is there to be returned to its rightful place. It's going to take talent and effort.''
 When Murphy, the former C.E.O. of a Canadian drugstore chain called Shoppers Drug Mart, was bidding for the job, Fisher flew up to Toronto and spent eight hours looking at stores with him. He told him he wanted all the brands revived, but he was particularly keen to see the Gap growing again. ''The Gap is the emotional brand in the business,'' Murphy told me last October. ''As it goes, so goes the company.''
 At the start, there was nothing remotely iconic about the Gap. As the now canonical story goes, Fisher was vexed by his inability to find a pair of Levi's with a 31-inch inseam and hit upon the idea of a store devoted exclusively to selling the era's top brand of denim in all sizes and styles. At the time, department stores carried only the most common Levi's sizes and a narrow selection of styles. There were a few specialty stores around, like Fred Segal in Los Angeles, but the possibilities of specialty retailing had hardly been tapped.
 On June 12, 1969, Fisher drew up a seven-page business plan written in the stuffy voice of a man trying to mask his lack of retail experience: ''One fails to find sufficient attention and inventory dollars given to the pants classification.'' He and Doris threw in $21,000 each and raided their three sons' bank accounts for a third share. The space he'd leased on Ocean Avenue was near two colleges and a high school. In case his approach to the ''pants classification'' wasn't enough to beguile young people (he envisioned a clientele of men and women ages 12 to 25), he decided to sell records too. The name he had in mind -- Pants and Discs -- probably would have killed the infant venture in its crib; providently Doris came up with ''the Gap,'' inspired by the term ''generation gap.'' 
 Goosed by ads boasting ''three tons of Levi's,'' business boomed right out of the gate. Within six months the records were gone. A year later there were three stores. Ten years later there were 400, the majority of them in malls. The Gap rode the demographic wave as Americans migrated to the suburbs. Unable to get all the product it wanted from Levi's, the company began developing merchandise under its own labels. By 1983, the Gap had more than 500 stores and was pulling down $481 million in annual sales. But Fisher was unhappy. He hated the chronic markdowns and tacky yellow discount tags. The brand, he observed in his privately circulated autobiography, ''Falling Into the Gap,'' was stalled in ''a schlocky off-price rut.'' He could hold the terms of hundreds of store lease deals in his head, but the creative aspects of apparel retailing bewildered him. 
 ''We sort of forget today, but my father wasn't proud of the business before Mickey came,'' recalled Bob Fisher. ''He didn't know how to fix the Gap. Mickey had a vision.''
 ''Mickey'' was Millard S. Drexler, a young merchant raised in the Bronx who had made his name overhauling the Ann Taylor brand. Fisher hired him to run the Gap brand in November 1983, and 12 years later made him C.E.O. of the entire company. Drexler had the intuitive feel for fashion that his boss lacked. At Ann Taylor, he'd envisioned his archetypal customer as Jackie Onassis. At the Gap he was guided by the heretical idea that style and quality didn't need to cost an arm and a leg. He brought in fleece and pocket tees and dress shirts and sweat pants in a wide palette of colors and natural fabrics. He put in new store decor, better lighting, diamond-shaped display tables. He consolidated all the Gap brands into one. The logo was redesigned. Out went the radio, and in came specially programmed music.
 Within six months of Drexler's arrival, 450 Gap stores had been remodeled. Buying a pair of Gap jeans in New York, none other than Jackie Onassis declared, ''It's a pleasure shopping here after Bloomingdale's.'' Unable to find clothes for his 6-year-old son, Alex, Drexler started GapKids in 1986. In 1987 the first Gap outside the United States opened in London. In 1988 the Gap introduced its celebrated ''Individuals of Style'' ad campaign, which linked the brand to iconic portraits of celebrities as diverse as Willie Nelson, Sharon Stone, Karl Lagerfeld and the chef of Nobu. Wall Street tagged Drexler ''the merchant prince'' as revenues climbed steadily, topping $14.5 billion by the end of his tenure. The growth and visibility of the company made Gap jokes a staple of late-night comics. (David Letterman built a Gap store in his studio control room.) There seemed no limit to the brand's influence or its cultural ramifications. Possibly it was just coincidence, but a year after the Gap outfitted Mikhail and Raisa Gorbachev and 130 members of their delegation in its jeans and white T-shirts, the Soviet Union collapsed. 
 he perils of stagnation, of failing to attend to the tenor of the times, are well known to the Gap's current regime. Don Fisher fired Drexler in May 2002 after the company sales slumped for 10 quarters and the stock crashed from $50 to $8 a share. The next C.E.O., Paul Pressler, lasted four and a half years; his big gamble on a new brand, Forth and Towne, was shuttered a month later. 
 ''When the merchandising and the design don't click or stay true to the soul of the business, the whole thing can fall apart so fast,'' said Bob Fisher, who served as interim C.E.O. until Murphy arrived in August 2007. In February of that year, Fisher appointed a longtime Gap employee, Marka Hansen, to lead the turnaround effort at the flagship.
 ''I think the brand got tarnished,'' Hansen told me. ''A lack of confidence led people to chase and follow fashion rather than lead.''
 One of her first decisions as president was to stop television advertising. ''Why would you invite anyone to dinner if you didn't like your house?'' she said. After four months on the job, she consolidated all Gap design under Patrick Robinson, who had worked for Perry Ellis, Paco Rabanne, Giorgio Armani and Anne Klein. Mindful of the Gap's history, Robinson, now 42, was resolved not to get trapped in it.
 ''You won't hear me use the word 'iconic,' '' he told me last October as we toured the design offices. ''If one of my team says they got an idea from some old movie in the 1970s, I run into the closet and scream. For us to make Steve McQueen clothes is not relevant. We're at our best when we talk about how Americans are living today. That's what we're exporting -- an interpretation of how Americans live. That's our whole reason for being.''
 One of his initial criticisms was that Gap stores looked ''broken.'' They lacked visual continuity: there was no coordination in the merchandise color schemes, no unifying point of view or sense of a pertinent theme. After he was hired, Robinson took down the partitions at the Gap's New York design offices so that various teams could interact and ideas could percolate across traditional categories. ''This is my favorite room,'' he said as we walked into the color vault, where there were switches for three kinds of light -- fluorescent, incandescent and daylight -- and the walls were covered with hooks holding some 3,000 coded swatches of fabric with poetic names like Deep Carrot, Bog Brown, Comet Blue and Corncob. 
 In early meetings with Robinson and Karyn Hillman, the head of merchandising, Hansen posed a series of questions. What are we good at? What do we own? What can we do better than anybody else?
 ''I hate our jeans,'' Robinson said.
 ''Me, too,'' Hansen said. 
 They decided to start right there. Focus groups uncovered the depressing fact that Gap jeans -- ''our birthright,'' Hansen called them -- were considered suitable for mowing the lawn but not for the office or for a date. For 18 months, they focused on ''the denim initiative.'' One goal was to siphon business from the premium denim companies like Seven for All Mankind, which were charging $200 for jeans that the Gap hoped to replicate for less than $60. It's common knowledge among retailers that when women try on jeans, they turn around and scrutinize their butts while men crouch in front of the mirror to ascertain the constriction in the upper thigh area. Untold hours were spent with fit technicians -- an actual job -- poring over patterns and worrying about things like ''back drag'' and the variations in the 12 ''core fits.'' There were meetings to discuss the finishes on the waist shanks and the curve of the stitching on the fly zipper flap, and what kind of embroidery would be on the back pocket, and the shade of blue on the one blue rivet that was the agreed-upon signature touch of the new line. And of course the various washes, and the intensity of bleach-line ''whiskering'' and the degree of destruction in the ''destructed'' styles. What emerged was Gap's 1969 Premium Denim line. 
 ''For years we tried to do dark denim,'' Hillman told me one evening in her office. Hillman, 42, was dressed in a ruffled black and white plaid Gap blouse, the Always Skinny jeans from the new line and a killer pair of Dolce & Gabbana heels. ''We'd buy it big, and it would never sell. Every three years we'd try it. This year we doubled down, and it's been unbelievable. It broke the mold.''
 In June 2008, Ivy Ross, who had worked at Old Navy, returned to the Gap to head up marketing. I caught up with her at the Sony studios in Culver City, where commercials were being shot for the Gap's return to television advertising for its holiday campaign. She was wearing a black nylon Gap jacket, a Gap shirt and strands of real pearls mixed with Swarovski cut crystals.
 ''I knew my task was huge,'' she said. ''The soul of a brand is a feeling. Gap has in its DNA the idea that we know what's up culturally, and we will infuse our product with what's going on in whatever way that makes sense. I think where we fell short was that we got too tricky, too fashionable. Gap clothes need to be a blank canvas that anyone can find themselves in. The brand is a very American way of dressing, a common language where we connect.''
 On the cavernous set, a bunch of kids in Gap scarves and sweaters from the Holiday collection were rehearsing choreography with the director Michael Gracey. Gracey had been hired by the Gap's new ad agency, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, a hot Miami-based shop that had come up with some comfy scenarios for the ''cozy cabin'' theme of the holiday collection. From a cursory glimpse, the dance routines didn't look all that different from the spots of past years that featured slightly self-conscious celebrities capering around in Gap outfits. But Gracey's hilarious babies-on-roller-skates commercial for Evian, which has gotten more than 24 million hits on YouTube, entitled him to the benefit of the doubt.
 Can the Gap catch fashion lightning in a bottle again? To say it can't is as silly as to say it will. There is nothing to prevent the brand, with all its economic leverage, from stitching up some hits, pulling customers and becoming, in the words you hear a lot around the Gap, ''cool'' and ''relevant.'' But the times have changed. The marketplace is teeming with competitors like J. Crew, American Apparel and Uniqlo. Even if the Gap's comps perk up, it seems unlikely that it can ever dominate the zeitgeist the way it did in the 1990s, when it was as much a cultural phenomenon as a place to get some pants. Even on a mass scale, fashion is still a quasi-mystical art that has less to do with dictating public taste than divining buried desires and seismic moods. If rag-trade glory were just a formula, Don Fisher could have done it on his own.
 Whatever the outcome, Fisher is not around to see it. ''He had an amazing life,'' said his oldest son. The founder made his last public appearance in June at a conference for 400 senior managers. Thyroid cancer had put a quaver in his voice. In July, to celebrate the revamped jeans, he and Doris took Hillman, Robinson and Hansen out to dinner. ''He said, 'I'm so proud of what you've done,' '' Hillman recalled. In August, he telephoned Drexler, who got the feeling that Fisher wanted to make sure there were no hard feelings. They spoke for only a minute; Drexler, now chairman and C.E.O. of J. Crew, was not tempted to accept an invitation to attend the 40th-anniversary party on Aug. 21. Fisher, himself, was not well enough to attend. Up until the end, however, he was anxious to find a home for his art collection after the bruising rejection of his bid to build a museum in the Presidio National Park in San Francisco. On Sept. 25 he reached an agreement that would entrust the collection to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. He read the news in the morning papers. As the T-shirt says, art is long, life is short; one day later, he was dead. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANCOIS BERTHOUD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); ART COLLECTING (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); WATER SPORTS (72%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (72%); WATER POLO (72%); POP & ROCK (67%); HORSES (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%)

PERSON: BONO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



166 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 7890 words

HEADLINE: A More Perfect Union

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH WEIL. 
Elizabeth Weil, a contributing writer, is working on a memoir about marriage improvement called ''No Cheating, No Dying.''

 BODY:
I.
 I have a pretty good marriage. It could be better. There are things about my husband that drive me crazy. Last spring he cut apart a frozen pig's head with his compound miter saw in our basement. He needed the head to fit into a pot so that he could make pork stock. I'm no saint of a spouse, either. I hate French kissing, compulsively disagree and fake sleep when Dan vomits in the middle of the night. Dan also once threatened to punch my brother at a family reunion at a lodge in Maine. But in general we do O.K. 
 The idea of trying to improve our union came to me one night in bed. I've never really believed that you just marry one day at the altar or before a justice of the peace. I believe that you become married -- truly married -- slowly, over time, through all the road-rage incidents and precolonoscopy enemas, all the small and large moments that you never expected to happen and certainly didn't plan to endure. But then you do: you endure. And as I lay there, I started wondering why I wasn't applying myself to the project of being a spouse. My marriage was good, utterly central to my existence, yet in no other important aspect of my life was I so laissez-faire. Like most of my peers, I applied myself to school, friendship, work, health and, ad nauseam, raising my children. But in this critical area, marriage, we had all turned away. I wanted to understand why. I wanted not to accept this. Dan, too, had worked tirelessly -- some might say obsessively -- at skill acquisition. Over the nine years of our marriage, he taught himself to be a master carpenter and a master chef. He was now reading Soviet-era weight-training manuals in order to transform his 41-year-old body into that of a Marine. Yet he shared the seemingly widespread aversion to the very idea of marriage improvement. Why such passivity? What did we all fear?
 That night, the image that came to mind, which I shared with Dan, was that I had been viewing our marriage like the waves on the ocean, a fact of life, determined by the sandbars below, shaped by fate and the universe, not by me. And this, suddenly, seemed ridiculous. I am not a fatalistic person. In my 20s I even believed that people made their own luck. Part of the luck I believed I made arrived in the form of Dan himself, a charming, handsome surfer and writer I met three days after I moved to San Francisco. Eleven years later we had two kids, two jobs, a house, a tenant, a huge extended family -- what Nikos Kazantzakis described in ''Zorba the Greek'' as ''the full catastrophe.'' We were going to be careless about how our union worked out? 
 So I decided to apply myself to my marriage, to work at improving ours now, while it felt strong. Our children, two girls who are now 4 and 7, were no longer desperately needy; our careers had stabilized; we had survived gutting our own house. Viewed darkly, you could say that I feared stasis; more positively, that I had energy for Dan once again. From the myriad psychology books that quickly stacked up on my desk, I learned that my concept was sound, if a bit unusual. The average couple is unhappy six years before first attending therapy, at which point, according to ''The Science of Clinical Psychology,'' the marital therapist's job is ''less like an emergency-room physician who is called upon to set a fracture that happened a few hours ago and more like a general practitioner who is asked to treat a patient who broke his or her leg several months ago and then continued to hobble around on it; we have to attend not only to the broken bone but also to the swelling and bruising, the sore hip and foot and the infection that ensued.''
 Still, Dan was not 100 percent enthusiastic, at least at first. He feared -- not mistakenly, it turns out -- that marriage is not great terrain for overachievers. He met my ocean analogy with the veiled threat of California ranch-hand wisdom: if you're going to poke around the bushes, you'd best be prepared to scare out some snakes.
 II.
 A quick bit of background: Dan and I married on July 1, 2000, in Olema, Calif. I wore a white dress. Dan was 32; I was 30. We vowed to have and to hold, to love and to cherish in sickness and in health, etc. We were optimistic, cocky and vague about the concept of marriage. We never discussed, or considered discussing, why we were getting married or what a good marriage would mean. It all seemed obvious. I loved Dan; I loved how I felt with him. Ergo I wanted to be his wife. 
 During the first nine years of our marriage -- that is, until we tried to improve it -- Dan and I thought little about our expectations and even less about our parents' marriages, both of which have lasted more than 40 years. Our families had set very different examples of how a marriage could be good. Dan was raised in Berkeley, Calif., by VW-bus-driving lefties who were so utterly committed to their own romance that Dan sometimes felt left out. Each meal and each sunset was the most exquisite. When girls refused to talk to Dan in high school, his mother told him they were just too intimidated by his incredible good looks. My parents' marriage, meanwhile, resembled nothing so much as a small business. They raised their three children in Wellesley, Mass., where civic life was so tidy that kids held bake sales at the town dump. All conjugal affection took place out of sight. ''You're a good doobie'' was considered high praise. 
 After our wedding, with some money from a boom-time book advance, we bought a run-down house in San Francisco. We assumed that our big problems would be money (or lack thereof; we're both freelance writers) and religion (I'm Jewish; Dan's Christian). Neither turned out to be true. We built -- or more accurately fell -- into a 21st-century companionate marriage. But Dan and I were not just economic partners, lovers, (soon enough) co-parents and best friends. We were also each other's co-workers, editors and primary readers. Both working from home, our lives resembled a D-list version of Joan Didion's and John Gregory Dunne's, whose days, according to Didion, ''were filled with the sound of each other's voices'' -- except with what I can only assume is a much more egregious lack of boundaries. We lost steam 95 percent of the way through our D.I.Y. home remodeling and, as a result, have no master-bathroom door.
 III.
 But how to start? What would a better marriage look like? More happiness? Intimacy? Stability? Laughter? Fewer fights? A smoother partnership? More intriguing conversation? More excellent sex? Our goal and how to reach it were strangely unclear. We all know what marriage is: a legal commitment between two people. But a good marriage? For guidance I turned to the standard assessments. The Locke-Wallace Marital Adjustment Test instructs spouses, among other things, to rank themselves along the ''always agree'' to ''always disagree'' continuum on matters ranging from recreation to in-laws. This struck me as scattershot and beside the point. For all the endless talk about marriage -- who should have the right to be in one, whether the declining numbers of married-parent households are hurting America's children -- we don't know much about what makes a marriage satisfying or how to keep one that way. John Gottman, in his Love Lab in Seattle, claims that he can analyze a conversation between spouses and predict with 94 percent accuracy whether that couple will divorce over the course of six years. But many academics say that Gottman's powers of prophecy are overblown, that he can't truly predict if a couple will split. Those not selling books, workshops or counseling admit to knowing surprisingly little. Harry Reis, a professor of psychology at the University of Rochester, likens our current understanding of ''relationship science'' to the Buddhist parable of the blind men and the elephant. One blind man ''feels the tusk, inferring that elephants are hard and sharp-edged, like a blade. Another touches the soft, flexible ear, concluding that elephants are supple, resembling felt. A third imagines massive strength from grasping the pillar-like structure of the leg. The perspective of each person touching the elephant is valid, as far as it goes. . . .'' But no one understands the whole beast. 
 Dan and I decided to dive in, trusting that the terms of our better marriage and the yardstick by which to measure those terms would emerge along the way. It seemed safest to start in private, so we began our putative improving with Harville Hendrix's Oprah-sanctioned self-help best seller, ''Getting the Love You Want.'' I let Dan pick the first exercise. It seemed only sporting. I assumed he would choose ''positive flooding,'' which includes making a list of all the qualities you wish your partner would praise you for but never does and then sitting in a chair as your spouse walks circles around you, reading that list in an increasingly loud and emphatic voice. (I was terrible at giving Dan compliments, even though he craved them; I sided with the psychoanalyst Adam Phillips, who writes that in marriage ''the long applause becomes baffling.'') But instead Dan chose ''reromanticizing.'' In hindsight, no surprise -- Dan's parents were dreamy and passionate. 
 Step 1: Complete this sentence in as many ways as possible: ''I feel loved and cared about when you. . . .'' 
 Dan quickly jotted down ''submit to kissing, clean the kitchen, tell me I look studly.''
 ''Let's try for 10,'' I said.
 ''Ten!'' Dan said, teasing but serious, one of our most common modes of conversation. ''You can think of 10?'' 
 In ''Intimate Terrorism: The Crisis of Love in an Age of Disillusion,'' the psychologist Michael Vincent Miller describes marriage as mocking our ''fondest dreams,'' because the institution is not the wellspring of love we imagine it to be. Instead it's an environment of scarcity, it's ''a barbaric competition over whose needs get met''; it's ''two people trying to make a go of it on emotional and psychological supplies that are only sufficient for one.'' And true enough, with ''Getting the Love You Want'' splayed on our bed, I began seeing Dan as my adversary, the person against whom I was negotiating the terms of our lives. I remembered well, but not fondly, this feeling from early in our marriage, when nearly everything was still up for grabs: Where would we live? How much money was enough? What algorithm would determine who would watch the baby and who would go to the gym? Recently those questions had settled, and our marriage felt better for it. But now the competitive mind-set came roaring back, as I reasoned, unconsciously anyway, that any changes we made would either be toward Dan's vision of marriage and away from mine or the other way around. Admitting too much satisfaction seemed tantamount to ceding the upper hand. So I held my ground. I, too, failed to think of 10 things Dan did that made me feel loved. ''O.K.,'' I said, ''let's quit after 8.''
 Step 2: Recall the romantic stage of your relationship. Complete this sentence: ''I used to feel loved and cared about when you. . . .'' 
 Dan made one of those circles with a line through it on his paper, symbolizing, he ribbed, ''the null set.'' Then he grabbed my list. '' 'Looked giddy to come through the door and see me,' '' Dan read. ''Are you kidding me? You don't even see me when you come through the door. It's like you're blind and deaf to everyone but the kids.'' 
 I thought I had avoided becoming one of those mothers who transferred all of her romantic energy from her husband to her children. Apparently I failed. But Dan, in my view, hadn't mastered the spouse-parent balance, either, only his problem was the opposite: at times he ignored the kids. While reromanticizing, I asked him, testily, ''Do you really think a 6-2, 200-pound man who works at home with his wife needs to compete with his small children for their mother's attention before those children leave for school?'' Great. Now we were having a fight. Dan retreated to the bathroom to check his progress on his six-pack. My doubts set in. This was the fear, right? You set out to improve your marriage; it implodes. What if my good marriage was not floating atop a sea of goodness, adrift but fairly stable when pushed? What if my good marriage was teetering on a precipice and any change would mean a toppling, a crashing down? 
 Much of the commentary on modern marriage is frankly terrifying. Miller describes ''the marital ghetto'' -- the marital ghetto? -- as ''the human equivalent of a balanced aquarium, where the fish and the plants manage to live indefinitely off each other's waste products.'' Perhaps we'd been striving in raising children and not in marriage because child-rearing is a dictatorship and marriage is a democracy. The children do not get to vote on the direction of the relationship, on which sleep-training or discipline philosophy they like best. But with a spouse, particularly a contemporary American spouse, equality is foundational, assumed. A friend had recently told me that he thought I was the boss in my marriage. Did I really want to negotiate my marriage anew and risk losing that power? From the bathroom, Dan asked, ''Do you really think this project is a good idea?'' 
 I realized that my favorite books about marriage -- Calvin Trillin's ''About Alice'' and Joan Didion's ''Year of Magical Thinking'' -- included one spouse who was dead.
 Still, one Saturday last spring, we drove across the Golden Gate Bridge to Mill Valley to attend a marriage-education class. In academic circles, marriage education is known as a ''prevention'' program, an implicit admission that by the time most couples get to the subsequent program -- therapy -- it's too late. The classes, sadly, have all the intellectual glamour of driver's ed. But they're based on the optimistic idea that you can learn to be better at marriage. As Bernard G. Guerney Jr., a clinical psychologist, family therapist and the godfather of the marriage-education movement, wrote in his 1977 book ''Relationship Enhancement,'' unless an unhappily married spouse ''is suffering a biochemical deficiency or imbalance, he is no more sick than someone who wants to play tennis and does not know how, and the professional is no more providing 'therapy' or 'curing' his or her client than a tennis coach is 'curing' his clients.'' 
 We enrolled in a 16-hour, two-Saturday course called ''Mastering the Mysteries of Love.'' The classes teach students how to have ''skilled conversations'' or rather, I should say, how to stop having the let's-see-who-rhetorically-wins skirmishes that were standard in our house. A skilled conversation is an exercise in forced empathy. One person starts by describing his or her feelings. The other person then validates those feelings, repeating them back nearly verbatim. 
 Midmorning, with the gongs of the supposedly soothing spa music crashing in the background, Dan and I retreated to a couch with a template for having a skilled conversation about a ''small disagreement.'' Among our most longstanding fights was how much energy and money should go into Dan's cooking. Shortly after our first child, Hannah, was born, Dan and I started having the same conversation every night: do you want to cook dinner or look after the kid? He always picked cook, I always picked kid, and now, seven years later, Dan was an excellent, compulsive and profligate chef. We spent far more money on food than we did on our mortgage. Sure, we ate well. Very well. Our refrigerator held, depending on the season: homemade gravlax, Strauss organic milk, salt-packed anchovies, little gem lettuces, preserved Meyer lemons, imported Parmesan, mozzarella and goat cheese, baby leeks, green garlic, Blue Bottle coffee ($18 a pound), supergroovy pastured eggs. On a ho-hum weeknight Dan might make me pan-roasted salmon with truffled polenta in a Madeira shallot reduction. But this was only a partial joy. Dan's cooking enabled him to hide out in plain sight; he was home but busy -- What? I'm cooking dinner! -- for hours every evening. During this time I was left to attend to our increasingly hungry, tired and frantic children and to worry about money. That was our division of labor: Dan cooked, I tended finances. Because of the cooking, in part, we saved little for retirement and nothing for our children's college educations.
 I garnered no sympathy from our friends. Still, Dan's cooking and the chaos it created drove me mad, a position I expressed by leaving whole pigeons untouched on my plate. Dan, meanwhile, entrenched and retaliated, slipping crispy fried pigs' ears into my salads and making preposterously indulgent weekday breakfasts, the girls upending flour bowls and competing for Dad's attention as he made them crepes with grapes and Champagne sauce at 6:45 a.m. I knew Dan's cooking and his obsessions in general were mechanisms to bind his anxiety, attempts to bring order to an unruly mind. Without an outlet, Dan tended toward depression, and his depression vented as anger. In his early 20s, he learned the trick of focusing and applying himself, at nearly all times, so his energy would not, as he put it, ''turn bad.'' I respected this, even appreciated it, in theory. But I struggled with the specifics. Dan cooked, because he needed to cook, blitzing through one cookbook after another, putting little check marks next to every recipe. He was not cooking for me, not for the girls. Yet now in our marriage class, following the skilled-conversation template, the emotional distance between us on this issue seemed to collapse. I said, then Dan mirrored back to me, ''The chaos is really upsetting, and you'd like to find a way to maintain more peace and calm in our home.'' Then Dan said, and I mirrored to him: ''Food is a truly important part of family. For you it's health and pleasure bound together, and it lets you express and pursue the life you want to live three times a day.''
 That afternoon, as we talked in this stilted, earnest style -- covering such esteemed topics as backrubs and stray socks, the utter banalities of married life -- I felt a trapdoor crack open in our marriage. According to a widely accepted model, intimacy begins when one person expresses revealing feelings, builds when the listener responds with support and empathy and is achieved when the discloser hears these things and feels understood, validated and cared for. This is not news. It's not even advice. Offering a married couple this model is like informing an obese person that he should eat less and move more. But in the days and nights that followed that course, our intimacy grew. We had never considered our verbal jousting to be protecting uncomfortable feelings. Clearly it was. Back home, that first irony-free evening, I found myself telling Dan a raft of antiheroic stories about my childhood, stories I'd never told him, I realized, because I felt insecure. They were tales about suburban bat mitzvahs and the peddle pushers I wore to them, anecdotes from a conventional East Coast world our marriage eschewed. Without the ironclad guarantee of empathy, I had felt that they might go over poorly, especially alongside Dan's epics of a glorious youth spent playing Frisbee in Berkeley's Tilden Park. 
 For the next few weeks, even our sex was more intimate, more open and trusting. Then I found myself recoiling. As if I were obeying Newton's third law of motion, I had an innate equal and opposite reaction to our newfound intimacy, to living our lives, as the saccharine marriage-improvement phrase goes, as we instead of as me. I loved the idea of digging out of my emotional bunker and going over to Dan's to live with him. And I liked being there, for a while. But Dan has a bigger, flashier personality than I do. I feared, in our intimacy, I might be subsumed. As many women had, I read in fascinated horror, a few years back, about a Buddhist couple who took vows never to be parted by more than 15 feet. They inhaled and exhaled in unison while doing yoga, walked each other to writing desks when inspiration struck in the middle of the night. ''It is very intimate,'' the male partner explained. That vision of intimacy as a chain-link leash filled me with dread. Yes, I loved the emotional security of knowing that if I said, ''I'm upset,'' Dan would repeat back, ''You're upset.'' But while such command empathy was comforting to a point, it felt unsustainable, even cloying. 
 Some days, following intimate nights, I'd walk up to our kitchen from our bedroom below and want to pretend it didn't happen. Dan would caress the small of my back. I'd squirm away. I knew older couples who slept in separate bedrooms, an arrangement that unsettled me as a newlywed but now struck me as a sound approach to running the chute between intimacy and autonomy over the course of 50 years. Yet Dan and I weren't going to stop sharing a room -- for one thing, we lacked the space. So while working to improve our marriage, I found myself pushing my husband away. I had started our project assuming the more closeness, the better. But that wasn't turning out to be true, at least for me. 
 A few weeks later we drove through San Francisco to the tony Laurel Village neighborhood from our house in Bernal Heights for some psychoanalytic couple's therapy. En route we discussed not shaking the bushes of our union too hard. Dan had just flown home from London where he was working on a story about Fergus Henderson, a chef who defines half a pig's head as ''a perfect romantic supper for two.'' Henderson has Parkinson's but told Dan he stopped reading about the disease, because in his experience ''the more I know, the more symptoms I have.'' Following suit, we thought it best to stick to dissecting the good parts of our marriage and how to improve them, as marriage can bring out people's worst. Even those who are tolerant, wise and giving are often short and rude to their mates. I had always winced at the opening of Chekov's ''Lady With the Dog.'' The narrator describes the protagonist's wife as ''a tall, erect woman with dark eyebrows, staid and dignified.'' Then he gives us her husband's view: ''he secretly considered her unintelligent, narrow, inelegant, was afraid of her and did not like to be at home.'' How much did we really want to share?
 A word here about psychoanalytic reasoning: I've never been a big fan. I've long favored the fake-it-till-you-make-it approach to life. Why turn over the rocks of your history just to see what's underneath? In marriage therapy, this fear makes particular sense, because the therapy carries not only the threat of learning things about yourself that you might prefer not to know but also the hazard of saying things to your spouse that are better left unsaid, as well as hearing things from your spouse that you might prefer not to hear. Some in the field are outwardly critical of most marriage therapy; among them is William J. Doherty, a psychologist and the director of the Marriage and Family Therapy Program at the University of Minnesota, who writes, ''If you talk to a therapist in the United States about problems in your marriage, I believe that you stand a good risk of harming your marriage.'' The science behind marital counseling is also less precise than you might imagine. In clinical trials, among the most effective protocols is Integrative Behavioral Couple Therapy, an unabashed mash-up of two schools of thought. Couples work on ''change-oriented strategies,'' trying to find ways to remedy each other's complaints. They also do ''acceptance work,'' trying to learn to love the relationships as is. 
 Holly Gordon, our reed-thin psychoanalyst, did not think much of our plan. ''To get the most out of your time here we need to talk about some dissatisfaction or problem, something you're trying to improve,'' she instructed, closing a double set of soundproof doors. So we settled into airing some well-rehearsed gripes -- the time Dan came to the hospital to visit me and four-pound, premature Hannah, and all he could talk about was the San Francisco building code. (He'd torn the front stairs off our house and kept rebuilding them and ripping them off again, fearing they were imperfect.) The time Dan proposed a trade: he would clean up more, he swore he would, if I would just French-kiss him spontaneously once a day; I gave up first. (I found the forced affection claustrophobic. I was also still stung, I later realized, by critical comments Dan had made about my kissing style before we were engaged.) These were many-times-told tales, and as such we both felt inured to their dark content. We used them to avoid committing what Doherty calls ''therapist-induced marital suicide.'' We did not want therapy to set a pick for our divorce.
 So instead of speaking our harshest truths, for six weeks running Dan and I pursued the lesser offense of making the other sound crazy. Holly cooperated, too, offering feedback that we used to confirm our sense that the other was neurotic. Some weeks Dan took it in the teeth; others, I did. At home, Dan and I had been following a de facto acceptance strategy. He even convinced me that the best response to his lecturing me, again, about conjugate-periodization strength training was for me to say, ''Oh, you lovable, obsessive man, you!'' and walk away. But Holly took a fix-it, or at least diagnose-it, approach. This is another major complaint about marital therapy: mental-health professionals find mental-health problems. All of a sudden you're married to a narcissistic personality disorder; who wants to stick around for that? One day Holly ended our session with this synopsis: ''On the first count, you find Dan unavailable because he's not relating to you. He's just using you as a sounding board. But on the other hand he feels he can't reach you either. He wants you to accept his affection and praise, but those attentions make you feel smothered, and that makes him feel alone.'' I still believed our marriage was good. But I felt that Holly had reduced it to an unappealing, perhaps unfixable conundrum. Would her vote of little confidence hurt or help? 
 I did start watching my reactions when Dan told me that I looked beautiful. Did he mean it? What did he want from me? I would try to accept the compliment graciously, even offer one in return. But the endless therapy required to become less neurotic generally seemed outside the scope of this project. I felt confident we could build a better marriage, less so that our individual personalities would change. Marital therapy, to me, seemed akin to chemo: helpful but toxic. Leaving Holly's office one day, Dan, ever valiant, made a strong play to titrate how much negative feedback we let in. ''Do they spray shrink powder in these places,'' he asked, ''to make them extra depressing?''
 IV.
 Monogamy is one of the most basic concepts of modern marriage. It is also its most confounding. In psychoanalytic thought, the template for monogamy is forged in infancy, a baby with its mother. Marriage is considered to be a mainline back to this relationship, its direct heir. But there is a crucial problem: as infants we are monogamous with our mothers, but our mothers are not monogamous with us. That first monogamy -- that template -- is much less pure than we allow. ''So when we think about monogamy, we think about it as though we are still children and not adults as well,'' Adam Phillips notes. This was true for us. On our wedding day, Dan and I performed that elaborate charade: I walked down the aisle with my father. I left him to join my husband. We all shed what we told ourselves were tears of joy. Dan and I promised to forsake all others, and sexually we had. But we had not shed all attachments, naturally, and as we waded further into our project the question of allegiances became more pressing. Was our monogamy from the child's or the mother's perspective? Did my love for Dan -- must my love for Dan -- always come first? 
 This all came pouring out last summer in the worst fight of our marriage. At the time, we were at my parents' house, an hour northeast of San Francisco. More than food, more than child-rearing, we fought about weekends -- in particular, how many summer weekends to spend up there. I liked the place: out of the fog, free grandparental day care; the kids could swim. Dan loathed it, describing the locale as ''that totally sterile golf community in which your mother feeds our kids popsicles for breakfast and I'm forbidden to cook.'' 
 For the past few years I dismissed Dan's complaints by saying, ''Fine, don't go.'' I told myself this was justified, if not altruistic: I was taking our girls; Dan could do what he wanted with his free time. But underneath lay a tangle of subtext. Dan wished he spent even more time with his own parents, who were quite private. I felt an outsize obligation toward mine, because they moved to the Bay Area to be closer to us. We'd had some skilled conversations, which helped a bit, as I now knew those weekends with his in-laws made Dan feel alienated and left out of our family decision-making. Yet at root we fought because the issue rubbed a weak point in our marriage, in our monogamy: I didn't want to see my devotion to my parents as an infidelity to Dan. To him, it was. 
 That June weekend my folks weren't home, we'd gone up with friends, but Dan hated the place more than ever. Saturday morning I woke up early, went for a run and came back to find Dan on a small AstroTurf putting green with the girls, ranting about how he hated all the houses that looked the same, with tinted windows blocking the natural light; the golf course that obliterated the landscape and all the jerks that played golf on it. The next day was Father's Day. I took the girls to do errands with what I thought were the best of intentions, but I was so angered by Dan's relentless crabbiness that I failed to buy a gift. The final insult came Sunday afternoon as we packed to go home. I informed Dan that I told my mother that she could bring the girls back up the following weekend. Dan erupted in rage. ''Those are my actual children. Why do you insist on treating me like I'm some potted plant? I, too, get to decide what happens in this family. Do I need to tell you to tell your mother, 'O.K., Mom, I'm not allowed to make any plans for our children without getting permission from my husband?' Do I need to be telling you, 'I'm sorry, little girl, I make the plans in this family, and I'll tell you what to tell your mother about where my children are going?' ''
 I stiffened and said, ''Of course not.''
 ''How far are you going to let this go?'' Dan kept screaming. ''Are you willing to get divorced so you can keep spending weekends with your mom?''
 This was the first time in our marriage either of us had ever invoked divorce.
 The following Thursday, as we entered Holly's office, I still felt certain she would side with me: Dan needed to get over his holier-than-thou Berkeley hang-ups. Sure, golf communities are snobbish, but family is much more important. Especially my family, right now -- my parents had moved from Massachusetts to California to be near their grandchildren, for God's sake. And besides, I dealt more with the kids, and I let Dan run amok in the kitchen. So I got this. 
 Holly, who'd thrown out her back and was reclining in a lawn chair in front of the couch she used for psychoanalytic clients, did not think much of my reasoning. ''It sounds like you've created these little enclaves of rationalizations: 'I give on all these other fronts, so I'm entitled not to give on this one.' ''
 She was right. I felt entitled.
 ''But that does pose a problem -- for Dan. Because he feels he's really not taken into account.''
 Dan brightened. ''Just as you were talking there, I was having all these fears come up again. I have a real fear of being an appendage in that family, and that Liz's real family is her and her mother, and I was just a sperm donor. That it would be really fine if I disappeared. Nothing much would change.''
 ''Really?'' I asked. I knew some of the ways I betrayed Dan with the girls. As they grew older we found ourselves forming cross-generation allegiances. Hannah, our elder, and I would wish Dan wasn't so chronically messy and emotionally florid. Audrey, our younger, would promise to be Dan's perfect companion; she would do the things I wouldn't do: climb huge overhanging rock crags, eat whole fried smelt. But I understood less well why there was a conflict with my parents. I often spent 21 hours a day with Dan. When my mother called, I frequently didn't answer the phone. 
 I could not believe Dan thought my primary relationship was with my mother. I needed to know if he felt that way generally or just on these weekends. Dan declared the distinction moot: any rupture in our monogamy weakened the whole. I wondered if improving my marriage had to mean cutting myself off from the world? I wanted to gain strength from my marriage -- that was increasingly clear. In many ways I did. Dan had faith in me, and that helped me have faith in myself. But clearly I owed Dan a debt of constancy and consideration. Our marriage needed to be a place to gain strength for him too. 
 Near the end of our session, Holly asked what I thought would happen if I let go of my rationalizations, if I accepted a fuller monogamy. I said I would feel vulnerable, ''like a beating heart with no rib cage.''
 ''So there's a feeling that if you take Dan into account, he's going to take it all away, or you're going to have to give yourself over to him?''
 ''Yes,'' I said. ''I imagine I'm going to be squashed.''
 Holly sat up in her lawn chair. ''We're going to have to stop for the day.''
 V.
 Since the beginning of this project, Dan had been waiting for one thing: sex therapy. And I have good and bad news on this front: improving the sex in our marriage was much easier than you might guess, and the process of doing so made us want to throw up.
 Here again we began with books. In ''Can Love Last? The Fate of Romance Over Time,'' Stephen A. Mitchell, a psychoanalyst, presents a strong case for the idea that those thoughts you might have about your spouse or your sex life being predictable or boring -- that's just an ''elaborate fantasy,'' a reflection of your need to see your partner as safe and knowable, so you don't have to freak out over the possibility that he could veer off in an unforeseen direction, away from you. 
 Inspired by Mitchell, I decided to try a thought exercise: to think, while we were making love, that Dan was not predictable in the least. Before this, Dan and I were having regular sex, in every sense: a couple of times a week, not terribly inventive. As in many areas of our lives, we'd found a stable point that well enough satisfied our desires, and we just stayed there. But now I imagined Dan as a free actor, capable of doing anything at any time and paradoxically, by telling myself I did not know what to expect, I wanted to move toward him, to uncover the mystery. For years, of course, I felt I knew Dan well, worried that lessening the little distance between us could lead to collapse. Now I was having the same sweaty feelings I had in my 20s, when I would let my psyche ooze into that of a new lover at the start of an affair. 
 This was great, right? A better marriage meant more passionate sex, this went without saying. But by now I noticed a pattern: improving my marriage in one area often caused problems in another. More intimacy meant less autonomy. More passion meant less stability. I spent a lot of time feeling bad about this, particularly the fact that better sex made me retreat. There's a school of thought that views sex as a metaphor for marriage. Its proponents write rational-minded books like Patricia Love and Jo Robinson's ''Hot Monogamy,'' in which they argue, ''When couples share their thoughts and emotions freely throughout the day, they create between them a high degree of trust and emotional connection, which gives them the freedom to explore their sexuality more fully.'' But there's this opposing school: sex -- even sex in marriage -- requires barriers and uncertainty, and we are fools to imagine otherwise. ''Romantic love, at the start of this century, is cause for embarrassment,'' Cristina Nehring moans in ''A Vindication of Love: Reclaiming Romance for the Twenty-First Century.'' She berates the conventional marital set-up: two spouses, one house, one bedroom. She's aghast at those who strive for equality. ''It is precisely equality that destroys our libidos, equality that bores men and women alike.'' I can only imagine what scorn she'd feel for hypercompanionate idiots like us. 
 Still, I agreed with Nehring's argument that we need ''to rediscover the right to impose distances, the right to remain strangers.'' Could my postcoital flitting away be a means to re-establish erotic distance? An appealing thought but not the whole truth. My relationship with Dan started on rocky footing. When we met, Dan was working through the aftershocks of a torrid affair with an emotionally sadistic, sexually self-aggrandizing woman. She said mean things to him; he said mean things to me (''Why do you kiss like that?''). Not a perfect foundation for a marriage. Nor was the fact that Dan spent the early years of ours writing an erotic bildungsroman about this nightmare ex-girlfriend, the novel at one point ballooning to 500 pages and including references to everyone he'd ever slept with. Even after the book was published, I never quite shook the feeling that my role in Dan's life was to be the steady, vanilla lay. We never discussed this. We just had a strenuously normal sex, year after year after year. 
 Then one day at my desk I started reading ''The Multi-Orgasmic Couple: Sexual Secrets Every Couple Should Know.'' I sent Dan an e-mail message entitled ''Nine Taoists Thrusts.''
 Page 123, from the seventh-century physician Li T'ung-hsuan Tzu: 
 1. Strike left and right as a brave general breaking through the enemy ranks.
 2. Rise and suddenly plunge like a wild horse bucking through a mountain stream.
 3. Push and pull out like a flock of seagulls playing on the waves.
 4. Use deep thrusts and shallow teasing strokes, like a sparrow plucking pieces of rice.
 5. Make shallow and then deeper thrusts in steady succession.
 6. Push in slowly as a snake entering its hole.
 7. Charge quickly like a frightened mouse running into its hole.
 8. Hover and then strike like an eagle catching an elusive hare.
 9. Rise up and then plunge down low like a great sailboat in a wild wind.
 This e-mail was partly in response to one Dan sent me a few months earlier, just to see how much he could tweak my type-A sensibility. It was entitled ''Strength Benchmarks for Women'' and indicated that I should be able to do 10 pull-ups, 20 bar dips, front squat and bench press my body weight and dead lift one and a half times my body weight. Upon receiving the thrust e-mail, Dan ran up to my office in the attic from his in the basement and asked which thrust sounded best. This was a departure for us -- after I felt rebuffed in some early attempts to make use of some kitschy erotic wedding presents, we settled into our safe, narrow little bowling alley of a sex life. 
 Now, high above noisy Franklin Street, in the office of our therapist, Betsy Kassoff, our issues came pouring out. (We chose to see a psychologist who worked on sexuality, because we weren't contending with physical dysfunction.) Dan began with an exhaustive history. ''When I was 15 years old I was dating a girl. . . .'' I can't tell you how monumentally tired I was of hearing about Dan's ex-girlfriends. Could we please never discuss this again? ''We had this completely psychologically sadistic thing that was incredibly disturbing to me. . . . Every few years I'd have a relationship that mirrored that one, and then I had the bull moose of these relationships. It was like sticking my finger in the electrical socket of my own unconscious.''
 Betsy, who had a touch as deft as Bill Clinton at a barbecue, just said, ''Wow.'' 
 Dan and I had talked around the edges of this before -- the trauma of the bull moose, our romance's unpleasant start. But by the time either of us had any clarity on the matter, we were desperate to pack it away. Strange, now, what relief we felt in opening that rank old hamper. Betsy could not have said more than 50 words before Dan paused, and I jumped in. 
 Remember that searing detail from the Eliot Spitzer scandal: that he had sex in his socks? Way worse stuff came out. Like how Dan and I hadn't been talking to each other while having sex. And not making eye contact either. ''And what about the darker, more aggressive side of sexuality you talked about in your earlier relationships?'' Betsy asked Dan. ''Would you say it's been more difficult to bring those parts of yourself to this relationship?''
 Betsy worked gently and efficiently, a nurse undressing a wound. I confessed my craving but also my worry that we could not be sexually aggressive without conjuring the bull moose. Dan swore -- eagerly -- that this was not the case. The layers of our erotic life kept pulling back. I allowed that I felt hemmed in by our excessively regular sex life and annoyed that, in the context of our marriage, Dan supposedly had an important sexual history while I had none. Dan then admitted his fantasies about my past lovers, his fear that they had accessed parts of me that were walled off from him. How, nine years into our marriage, could our sex life still be under the thumbs of exes we no longer talked to or even desired? The thought made me angry and nauseated. 
 Fifty minutes later, Dan and I stumbled down onto the street, wrung out and dazed. Then we went home and solved the problem, at least at first. I hate to sound all Ayelet Waldman here, trumpeting her steamy sex life with Michael Chabon, but we had excellent sex. We were terrified not to. Yet once we proved to ourselves that we weren't fools to be married -- that we could have as charged an erotic life with each other as we had with others before -- the backslide began. This time, the retreat was painful and abrupt. One day Dan found a box of old snapshots in the basement and brought it upstairs, thinking he'd show his old self to our daughters. The cache turned out to include pictures I saved of ex-boyfriends, photos Dan proceeded to fling, to the girls' great amusement, across the room. 
 ''Remind me again why you invited so many ex-lovers to our wedding?'' Dan e-mailed me at 6 the following morning -- neither of us could sleep. ''Also, at the time, you had told me that you'd never slept with two of them. It only emerged later over time that you had. So what was going on there? Not completely ready to relinquish the past? Immaturity? Self-protection? Are you enjoying having a sexual history, too?'' 
 In his novel ''Before She Met Me,'' Julian Barnes explores the rabid jealousy we feel for spouses' former lovers, as if we expect our partners to have lived in anticipation of meeting us. This jealousy, Barnes writes, comes ''in rushes, in sudden, intimate bursts that winded you.'' It then lingers on ''unwanted, resented.'' This was our experience. The inquisition continued for days. Why had I not told Dan I'd slept with --------------? I lied 11 years earlier for the weakest of reasons: I lacked the presence of mind to tell Dan the truth, that I did not yet think he had a right to know all the details of my sex life before him. But now Dan was my husband, my full catastrophe. He allowed this reckless poking into all corners of our marriage. He even stopped seeing me as predictable and tame, and the old lie hurt. ''This is the central trust issue in a marriage,'' Dan said the next day as he made me lunch. ''Can I trust you when you tell me you haven't slept with somebody else?'' 
 The following weekend: jealousy again (or was it an attempt to fuel our eroticism with tension?). I said yes a bit too forcefully when Dan asked if I'd noticed a well-muscled young man at the pool. Dan was allowing for my sexual free agency, granting me my full humanity. We lived, raised children, worked and slept together. Now we needed to gouge out a gap to bridge, an erotic synapse to cross. It was exhausting. ''That guy did the epitome of bad-values hypertrophy training'' -- vanity weight lifting, in Dan's estimation, just to get buff. ''You're like a guy admitting he likes fake boobs. And he had chicken legs. Did you notice that, too?''
 VI.
 What is a good marriage? How good is good enough? Ultimately each philosophy of what makes a good marriage felt like a four-fingered glove. The passion apologists placed no stock in the pleasures of home. The communication gurus ignored life history. I came to view the project as a giant attempt to throw everything out of the messy closet that was our life and put it back in a way that resembled an ad for the Container Store. Not everything fit. It never would. We could tidy up any given area and more quickly and easily than we anticipated. But despite ongoing sessions with endless professionals, we couldn't keep the entirety of our marriage shipshape at once. 
 Still, night after night, I'd slide into bed next to Dan. He often slept in a white T-shirt and white boxer briefs, a white-cased pillow wrapped over his head to block out my reading light, his toppled stacks of cookbooks and workout manuals strewn on the floor. He looked like a baby, fresh and full of promise. In psychiatry, the term ''good-enough mother'' describes the parent who loves her child well enough for him to grow into an emotionally healthy adult. The goal is mental health, defined as the fortitude and flexibility to live one's own life -- not happiness. This is a crucial distinction. Similarly the ''good-enough marriage'' is characterized by its capacity to allow spouses to keep growing, to afford them the strength and bravery required to face the world. 
 In the end, I settled on this vision of marriage, felt the logic of applying myself to it. Maybe the perversity we all feel in the idea of striving at marriage -- the reason so few of us do it -- stems from a misapprehension of the proper goal. In the early years, we take our marriages to be vehicles for wish fulfillment: we get the mate, maybe even a house, an end to loneliness, some kids. But to keep expecting our marriages to fulfill our desires -- to bring us the unending happiness or passion or intimacy or stability we crave -- and to measure our unions by their capacity to satisfy those longings, is naive, even demeaning. Of course we strain against marriage; it's a bound canvas, a yoke. Over the months Dan and I applied ourselves to our marriage, we struggled, we bridled, we jockeyed for position. Dan grew enraged at me; I pulled away from him. I learned things about myself and my relationship with Dan I had worked hard not to know. But as I watched Dan sleep -- his beef-heart recipe earmarked, his power lift planned -- I felt more committed than ever. I alsofelt our project could begin in earnest: we could demand of ourselves, and each other, the courage and patience to grow. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY RUTH GWILY) (pg.MM37, 38-39, 40, and 43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); FAMILY (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (71%); CHILDREN (69%); ROAD RAGE (53%); WEIGHTLIFTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



167 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Grab Bag of Charities Grows, Along With U.S. Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The number of organizations that can offer their donors a tax break in the name of charity has grown more than 60 percent in the United States, to 1.1 million, in just a decade.
 Experts say nonprofits are skillfully exploiting the tax code's broad and elastic definition of what constitutes such a charity, making it difficult for the Internal Revenue Service, which must bless them, to say no. The agency approved 99 percent of the applications for public charity status last year, according to a new study by students at Stanford University -- or more than one every 10 to 15 minutes.
 Take the Woohoo Sistahs, a social club that won approval last year. Its 50 or so members meet regularly over drinks and dinner in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia and raise money for cancer research and other causes through walkathons and sales held in retailers' parking lots.
 What the Sistahs do is not so different from what the Shriners have done for decades to raise money for their hospitals -- except that the Sistahs can offer their donors a tax break that the Shriners cannot because decades ago they registered as a different type of charity with the I.R.S. (Direct donation to Shriners hospitals are deductible.) 
 The $300 billion donated to charities last year cost the federal government more than $50 billion in lost tax revenue.
 ''Especially during these tough economic times, it's troubling to hear we are increasing the number of these organizations at such a rapid pace,'' said Representative Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat who is one of the few members of Congress to pay attention to the nonprofit sector.
 ''It's not free,'' Mr. Becerra said, ''and so we need to do something to make sure taxpayers are getting a big enough benefit in return.'' 
 Timothy Delaney, chief executive of the National Council of Nonprofits, agreed that the rapid increase in charities was an issue but said that addressing it would be extremely complicated. 
 ''What are we going to do?'' Mr. Delaney asked. ''Have some bureaucrat establish a quota for arts organizations? Or after-school programs?''
 Jacki Gerber, a member of the Woohoo Sistahs, said her group believed it needed to register as a public charity. ''You can't say the Woohoo Sistahs are going to have this big party and go around to corporate folks and ask for financial sponsorship and donated raffle items without becoming a 501(c)(3),'' she said.
 Last year, the I.R.S. approved such groups as a charity formed to ensure a ''chemical free'' graduation party at a high school in Monticello, Minn.; two donkey rescue organizations; and two new chapters of the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, a group of cross-dressing ''nuns'' who recently raised more than $25,000 for AIDS treatment and other causes with an event featuring a live S-and-M show.
 Founders of new charities defend their value.
 ''There's a real need for us,'' said Ann Firestone, co-founder of Save Your Ass Long-Ear Rescue, a donkey and mule refuge in Vermont. ''These days, people just can't afford to keep these animals, and we take care of them until they find a new home. So I think we're pretty worthwhile -- though I can't say that everyone who runs a nonprofit is.''
 The tax code defines public charities as organizations that are ''religious, educational, charitable, scientific, literary, testing for public safety, to foster national or international amateur sports competition or prevention of cruelty to animals.'' Almost any type of activity fits that definition, and most applicants seek that status because -- unlike the more than 25 other categories of tax-exempt organizations -- it allows their donors to take a tax deduction for their gifts. 
 Organizations in the other categories include groups like chambers of commerce, the National Rifle Association and private golf clubs. The I.R.S. received some 3,600 applications from those types of organizations last year, compared with more than 40,000 applications from those seeking designation as a public charity.
 In most years, less than 5 percent of the applications for public charity status were turned down.
 While no one contends that even a small portion of the new charities are fraudulent, critics argue that the I.R.S. and state regulators cannot keep up with the growth of charities -- and therefore cannot possibly determine whether the applicants are adhering to state and federal regulations and laws. 
 Indeed, the students at Stanford found that while the I.R.S.'s electronic database records more than 40,000 new charities, its much more widely circulated annual Data Book puts the figure at more than 50,000, a discrepancy of more than 20 percent.
 ''It just seems utterly implausible that anyone can be doing due diligence in any way that constitutes a serious review of the applicant, let alone keeping an eye on them after they are approved,'' said Rob Reich, an associate professor of political science at Stanford, whose students did the study on the growth of charities, titled ''Anything Goes: Approval of Nonprofit Status by the I.R.S.'' 
 ''Why bother to have a review at all if you only reject 0.5 percent of the applicants?'' he said.
 Dean Zerbe, who in his former job as tax counsel to the Senate Finance Committee tried to curb expansion in the sector, shares that view. Mr. Zerbe says organizations seeking tax exemption should be urged to make sure they are not duplicating something others are already doing or to work through a charitable giving fund.
 The I.R.S. sees things differently and is proud of its work toward streamlining the process of obtaining exemption as a public charity, which had been criticized by the agency's own national taxpayer advocate, Nina E. Olson.
 Lois G. Lerner, director of the I.R.S.'s exempt organizations division, said that when she came to the agency in 2001, ''there was one approval process.'' 
 ''You submitted your application, it sat and sat on a shelf until someone was ready to take it up, and all the applications were worked in-depth, regardless of what kind of organization was seeking exemption,'' she said.
 ''What we've learned,'' Ms. Lerner added, ''is that we don't need to take the same kind of look at a large hospital and at a local soccer group.''
 She said the agency had built scrutiny into its approval process. ''We're asking them questions and looking at things like whether they seem to be able to go forward as a compliant charity at the same time we're educating them so they know what responsibilities they have if they're approved,'' she said.
 Most new charities are more akin to the soccer group than the hospital.
 The Red Nose Institute, a charity approved last year, needed donations to cover postage on the red clown noses it sends to American troops serving abroad. ''We wanted to put smiles on their faces and relieve a little stress,'' said Cheryl Herrington, a founder of the group and a psychiatric nurse who also works as a professional clown.
 Ms. Herrington said the group considered working with established charities but ''decided that we didn't want to get lost in the shuffle of other groups.''
 ''We are pretty unique,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CHARITIES (93%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); ONCOLOGY (70%); RETAILERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (55%); CANCER (53%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: XAVIER BECERRA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



168 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: How to Turn Downtime Into Job Offers

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF there is one thing that most unemployed job seekers have in abundance, it is time. And yet many of them misuse it. 
 This is understandable. Someone who has just lost a job may be accustomed to a workplace with its schedules and deadlines, and its expectant bosses and co-workers. If you fail to finish an important assignment, you'll hear about it. 
 Compare that with post-layoff life. You can assign yourself tasks, but no one will come after you if you don't finish them. When you get up in the morning, it can seem as if a long clean carpet of time is ahead of you, but then you may decide to go to the gym, have a leisurely lunch, take a nap, check out ''Dr. Phil'' on TV followed by ''Judge Judy,'' and then you're ready to make dinner. 
 Or, you may engage in a whirlwind of sending e-mail messages, Googling, calling and appointment-making, only to realize that very little of it got you closer to finding a job.
 ''Having no structure is the biggest enemy to being organized and being focused,'' said Julie Morgenstern, a productivity consultant in New York and author of ''Time Management From the Inside Out.''
 Job seekers should create specific work hours and a time map along with mini-deadlines, she said. Like many other experts, she recommends treating job hunting like a full-time job.
 Looking for a job involves so many steps that trying to define and prioritize them can be overwhelming, said Kimberly Bishop, chief executive of a career management and leadership services firm in New York. 
 ''I don't think that there's ever a time that the job search process is easy,'' Ms. Bishop said. Because it is not something people tend to do on a regular basis, few are truly skilled at it, she said, but ''being prepared and having a plan and a process brings confidence.'' 
 To begin, Ms. Bishop said, set aside a physical space for job hunting and devote from several days to a week solely to laying the groundwork for your search, she said. Too often, Ms. Bishop said, people fling themselves into making appointments and arranging interviews before they even have their resumes updated or know what kind of jobs they should realistically seek. 
 Prepare resumes, write sample cover letters, assemble your references, and put together samples of your work, she said. Compile an inventory of your skills, accomplishments and honors -- Ms. Bishop calls this a ''success folder'' -- ready to be shown or recounted during interviews.
 ''Once the job hunt gets started, it's so easy to become overwhelmed with just the management and organization of the paperwork,'' Ms. Bishop said. So create files, either paper or computer ones, to keep track of where you have applied and where you have had interviewed, she said. 
 You don't want to have a recruiter or a human resources manager call you and find yourself saying: ''Who did you say you were again? You say I applied there?'' 
 After this initial preparation it's time to get started in earnest. Ms. Morgenstern suggests dividing the day into three compartments: preparation and research, meetings, and follow-up. 
 ''Mixing it up'' this way can stop you from obsessing about things and from being paralyzed by perfectionism, she said. It is energizing and keeps you balance, she added. 
 Ms. Bishop echoed this sentiment, saying it is dangerous to spend too much time on any one thing. Some people spend all their time in front of the computer sending unproductive e-mail messages and applying for jobs for which they aren't qualified, she said (and that wastes the hiring manager's time, too). Other people spend all day at networking meetings and informational interviews without doing the concrete work that leads to an actual application or an interview, she said. 
 Of course be flexible (don't turn down a job interview to do research!), but Ms. Morgenstern put forth this sample day of varied activities: From 9 to 11, do background research on companies that you will be applying to or interviewing with. Research unconventional industries that may fit with your skills. Take an online career assessment test. Generate a list of contacts for networking purposes. Look up networking organizations. 
 Try to schedule a meeting every day, or five meetings a week, Ms. Morgenstern said. ''These benchmarks keep you from becoming complacent or depressed'' and keep you connected with the outside world, she said. Between 11 and 2 or 3, you might meet with a friend or former colleagues or a career counselor for lunch or coffee.
 Then go home and do follow-up work, Ms. Morgenstern said. Send a thank-you e-mail message to the person you had lunch or coffee with and forward any articles or leads that you may have mentioned. Send your thank-you notes that day, she said. Do not put that off.
 End every day by planning the next one, plus the two days after that, she said. This ''three-day arc'' puts your job search in context and enables you to pace yourself, she said.
 ''People are energized by getting things done,'' she said. ''Energy then begets more energy and more productivity.'' That begets confidence. 
 Then, when you're calling people on the phone or meeting with them, you radiate confidence and increase your chances of being hired, she said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); WRITERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: DR PHIL MCGRAW (53%); JUDGE JUDY SHEINDLIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



169 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Losing Fatherhood

 BODY:
Ruth Padawer's cover story presents a problem that didn't exist a mere decade ago. With the advent of cheap and positive DNA identification, a new generation of what can be called ''defatherization'' now is prevalent. While it's true that these scientific advances have caused myriad legal problems, the basic rules of child-rearing must remain the same. Regardless of who is the genetic father, whoever has initially contracted into the guardianship of a child is ultimately responsible for that child's welfare and upbringing. In the eyes of the law, this must be the basic premise. All other injustices and misrepresentations are merely superfluous actions based on selfish motives. 
 RICHARD C. GESCHKE Bristol, Conn. 
 There is ample precedent in New York and other jurisdictions for allowing a nonparent to petition for visitation and even custody of a child. In New York, you must demonstrate ''extraordinary circumstances'' to establish standing to proceed with such a petition. A situation in which a mother permits a father-child relationship to flourish for years would constitute an extraordinary circumstance. Preserving the nonbiological father's and, more important, the child's right to their relationship would shield the child from the catastrophic effects of a father's desertion that often is motivated, in large part, by dollars and cents. Moreover, permitting the mother to retain an unfair bargaining chip against the father -- threatening to sever the relationship unless the father continues to pay support -- empowers the perpetrator of the fraud over the victim a second time.
 STEVEN P. FORBES Huntington, N.Y.
 When deciding the best course of action after it is determined that a father is unwittingly raising a nonbiological child, courts should bear in mind that a pregnant woman, knowing that at least two men could be the father of her baby, will most likely choose the one better suited for parenthood. This may be her long-term partner, the father of her other children or simply the person with traits like emotional warmth and economic stability that would lead to the reasonable conclusion that her child would be safer and better cared for than with the other option, regardless of what a DNA test might reveal.
 KIMBERLY ADAMS Allentown, Pa.
 Questions pertaining to the role of nonbiological fathers are simply a manifestation of the different approaches we take to gender matters: where women are concerned, we emphasize rights; where men are concerned, we emphasize responsibilities.
 Padawer noted the idea that DNA testing should be mandatory at birth, regardless of the wishes of the parents, with the results communicated to both mother and father. The remaining difficulty would be obliging the biological father to pay child support. One sure way to bring some equity to a patently inequitable situation is to give a presumptive right of custody to any man who has been duped into paying child support.
 HUGH NATIONS Former Director, LoneStar Fatherhood Initiative Austin, Tex.
 Requiring a man to sign verification of his knowledge of paternity upon birth seems backward. Why should he be held accountable later for having signed a paper without executing due diligence? Why not instead have the mother sign to affirm his paternity or require a DNA test in cases of uncertainty? She ought to be the one to put her name on a legal document that eliminates the possibility of misunderstanding and held liable if it turns out to be false.
 MATTHEW SAFRAN Ithaca, N.Y.
 While I have genuine compassion for men who engage in the lives of their children and continue to pay child support after theydiscover that they are not the biological fathers, I have a very strong response to what feels like a skewed view of fathers and support, financial or otherwise. Where is the balanced story of the many children who are raised by single mothers because the fathers chose not to be involved or those children who are living at or below the poverty level because of deadbeat dads?
 HEIDI RANKIN Woodbury, Conn.
 Padawer's article reduced me to tears: tears for the children, tears for the fathers and tears for what paternity testing implies about the low levels of trust in even our most intimate relationships. As a child who was raised by my mother and my loving and tender stepfather (whom I would not have traded for anything) and who also had the blessing of a continuing relationship with my biological father, I would appeal to all those men out there who might be considering paternity testing on their children not to do it.
 The ancient Greeks had a legend about a woman named Pandora, who was given a wedding gift by an angry god who told her to keep it closed. Prompted by her own curiosity, however, she opened it, unleashing a plague of evils, fear, distrust, suspicion and labor upon humankind. Ordering DNA testing for a child who has already accepted you as their father is such a ''gift.'' The information you may learn will have the capacity to destroy notonly your marriage but also your children.
 Before you swipe that swab, sit down beside your son or daughter. Play a board game together. Laugh. Read a bedtime story. Then ask yourself if you are willing to leave all that behind and walk away from that child? And if you are, ask yourself one more question: How did I get to be a person who cares more about pride than about love and more about money than about a child who would give everything to have me in his or her life?
 THE REV. DR. DEBORAH MEISTER (Episcopal Priest) Highland Park, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORACIO SALINAS) GRAPHIC: ARTICLE GENERATING THE MOST MAIL: ''Losing Fatherhood,'' by Ruth Padawer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DNA (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); PARENTING (89%); DNA TESTING (89%); LEGAL PATERNITY (89%); FORENSICS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); PETITIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



170 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2119 words

HEADLINE: Is Money Tainting the Plasma Supply?

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: Eagle Pass, Tex. 

 BODY:
 WHEN the tips her husband earned as a waiter began dwindling a year ago, Esmeralda Delgado decided to help support her family. 
 Twice a week, Ms. Delgado, the mother of three young girls, walks across the bridge from Piedras Negras, Mexico, where she lives, to Eagle Pass and enters a building just two blocks from the border. 
 Inside, for about an hour, Ms. Delgado lies hooked to a machine that extracts plasma, the liquid part of the blood, from a vein in her arm. The $60 a week she is paid almost equals her husband's earnings. 
 ''This is like another income,'' she says. 
 Hundreds, probably thousands, of Mexicans like Ms. Delgado come to the United States to trade their plasma for dollars. Eagle Pass, a town of 27,000 that bills itself as the place ''where yee-hah meets ole,'' has two such plasma collection centers. There are about 15 others in border cities from Brownsville, Tex., to Yuma, Ariz. 
 The centers are run by pharmaceutical companies that transform the plasma into life-saving but expensive medicines for diseases like immune deficiencies and hemophilia. 
 Some border centers are new while others have been around for many years. They account for only a small percentage of the plasma collected by the industry, with the rest coming from collection centers throughout the United States. 
 But they have stirred debate in recent years because they illustrate the workings of the $12 billion plasma products business, a fast-growing industry that has depended on the blood of people hard up for cash. Based on typical industry yields and prevailing prices, it appears that a single plasma donation, for which a donor might be paid $30, results in pharmaceutical products worth at least $300. 
 Away from the border as well, many plasma collection centers have historically been located in areas of extreme poverty, some with high drug abuse. That troubles some people, who say it might contaminate the plasma supply or the health of people who sell their plasma. 
 ''Why in the United States do we have to depend on people who are down and out to donate?'' says Dr. Roger Kobayashi, an immunologist in Omaha who uses plasma products to treat many patients. ''You are taking advantage of economically disadvantaged individuals, and I don't think you are that worried about their health.'' 
 Dr. Kobayashi, who also teaches at the University of California, Los Angeles, says the collections on the Mexican border skirt the policy aimed at keeping plasma products safe from pathogens by prohibiting imports of plasma. ''If you can't import the plasma,'' he says, ''why not import the donor?'' 
 But the plasma companies and federal regulators say the practice is legal, ethical and safe. There have been no known cases of an infectious disease being transmitted through plasma products for more than a decade. And since the body quickly renews its plasma, the process is considered safe for donors if properly monitored.
 ''It's not like giving up a kidney,'' says Dr. Jay Epstein, director of blood research at the Food and Drug Administration, which regulates the collection centers and the plasma products.
 The industry says the same precautions are taken at the border as everywhere else. ''I don't understand the difference between having a center in El Paso and having a center in Columbus, Ohio,'' says Bruce Nogales, who runs plasma collection for Talecris BioTherapeutics, owner of the center that Ms. Delgado visits. Nine of Talecris's 71 collection centers, including four new ones, are on the border. 
 Still, the industry has made a lot of efforts in recent years to shed its skid row image by building some centers in middle-class areas and by promoting altruistic reasons for donating plasma. Companies say donors now come from various walks of life.
 The United States is one of the few countries that allows plasma donors to be paid. (And even here the plasma industry says it pays donors for their time, not for the plasma itself.) 
 But many of the countries that prohibit compensation do not collect enough plasma. So they rely on plasma or plasma products made from the blood of people who donate in the United States, which supplies more than half the world's plasma. 
 ''The U.S. is the OPEC of plasma,'' says Jim MacPherson, chief executive of America's Blood Centers, a network of blood banks.
 FOR the plasma industry, times have been good. Growth has averaged 8 percent a year over the last two decades. 
 Talecris, a leader in the business, just raised $1.1 billion in an initial public stock offering. The transaction represented a handsome return for Cerberus, the private equity fund. Cerberus acquired what is now Talecris from Bayer in 2005.
 To satisfy demand for plasma-based medicines, the industry has increased the number of collection centers to 408, from 299 in 2005, according to the Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association, the industry trade group. Paid donations in the United States rose to 18.8 million in 2008 from 10.4 million in 2005. 
 There are even a few signs that in areas hardest hit by the economic downturn, people who once donated blood without compensation to organizations like the Red Cross are selling plasma instead. ''I know of five or six people who are multi-gallon donors who have switched to plasma,'' said Doug Klynstra, recruitment manager for Michigan Blood, a nonprofit blood bank. He said the bank's donations are down 10 percent this year. 
 The blood banks generally collect whole blood, which is separated into red cells, platelets and plasma and often used for transfusions. They almost never pay for donations because that might induce donors to cover up health problems that could make the blood unsafe. 
 The plasma companies, which collect only plasma, say that is less of a concern for them because their manufacturing process can kill many viruses and because they have more time to screen donors. 
 One donor who switched, despite Mr. Klynstra's pleading, was his sister-in-law, Tina Dykstra, a 52-year-old grandmother. She started selling plasma two years ago when income from her husband's electrical contracting business in Grand Rapids began falling. She makes $50 a week. But bonus payments she once received for being a frequent donor have been eliminated. 
 ''Now, because it is so busy, they don't have to give you incentives anymore,'' Ms. Dykstra said.
 Plasma contains infection-fighting antibodies as well as hundreds of other proteins. They are extracted from the plasma at plants like one in Los Angeles owned by Baxter International. There, steel tanks two stories high are filled with yellowish liquid -- the plasma from thousands of donors -- being slowly stirred by huge blades. 
 Among the products are albumin, which is used to help treat trauma and burn victims, and blood-clotting proteins used by hemophiliacs. 
 But the star product is intravenous immune globulin, or IVIG, which is used to treat an estimated 35,000 Americans with immune deficiencies. It can also help restore movement to some people with paralyzing neurological conditions and is being tested against Alzheimer's disease. 
 Carter Dougherty, a 4-year-old from Lincoln, Neb., was constantly ill because his body lacked antibodies. ''He had pneumonia three times in one year,'' says his mother, Melissa Dougherty.
 But since Carter started on IVIG in February, she says, ''He's naughtier than sin because he feels so good.'' 
 IVIG can cost tens of thousands of dollars a year per patient. Clotting proteins for hemophiliacs can cost $100,000 to $350,000 a year. And many of the uses of IVIG are not approved by the F.D.A. 
 Insurers are becoming more reluctant to pay for such treatments, or are requiring higher co-payments, according to patient advocates. Ms. Dougherty was rejected three times before the insurer paid for Carter's treatment, which costs $864 a week. 
 Another challenge could be antitrust scrutiny. The number of plasma product companies has declined from 13 in 1990 to 9 in 2003 to 5 now -- Baxter International of Deerfield, Ill.; CSL of Australia; Talecris, of Research Triangle Park, N.C.; Grifols of Spain; and Octapharma of Switzerland. And the companies now own most of their own collection centers instead of buying plasma from independent collectors. 
 The industry ''operates as a tight oligopoly, with a high level of information sharing,'' the Federal Trade Commission said earlier this year in a lawsuit that broke up a planned $3.1 billion acquisition of Talecris by CSL. The lawsuit said that Baxter and CSL, the two biggest players, ''even have explored means of punishing firms that dare to 'break ranks' and chase market share.'' The F.T.C. dropped its suit when the deal was abandoned in June. But about a dozen hospitals have filed class-action suits charging that industry collusion has driven up prices of plasma products. 
 CSL said in a statement that the F.T.C. ''did not claim that our company ever engaged in wrongdoing,'' adding, ''There is no question that the plasma industry is intensely competitive.'' A spokeswoman for Baxter said the company had no idea what the F.T.C. was referring to and that the charge was not substantiated in the government's complaint.
 If there is a cartel, it is likely to be tested over the next few years because after several years of rapid expansion, plasma supply seems to have caught up to demand and could soon exceed it. 
 One sign is that in Eagle Pass, payment for two weekly donations has dropped to $60 from $80 earlier this year. 
 Early on a recent Tuesday evening, about 40 people were in the Talecris waiting room in Eagle Pass, sitting under a big sign reading: ''Save lives. Earn money. Feel good.'' Many of the people had just finished their shifts at Mexican factories. 
 In an adjacent room, about 70 people rested on vinyl beds, with a line connecting a vein in one arm to a machine. Many of the donors are regulars. ''It's kind of like 'Cheers,' '' said Ruben Duran, the center's manager. ''They come here and know each other.'' 
 In 2007, Octapharma, which does not collect on the border, threatened to quit the plasma trade association, saying in a letter to the association that the border collections ''compromised the fundamental ethics of our business.'' But the other companies defended the practice and the matter was dropped. 
 One issue is whether novel pathogens that perhaps are found in Mexico but not in the United States might enter the plasma supply. 
 ''That's scary for the end users,'' said Corey Dubin, chairman of the Committee of Ten Thousand, which represents hemophiliacs who, like Mr. Dubin himself, got H.I.V. or hepatitis in the 1980s from plasma products, before treatments were introduced to inactivate these viruses. 
 THE other issue is the safety of donors. Plasma is collected by drawing blood, separating out the plasma by centrifuge, and then returning the red cells, white cells and platelets to the body. 
 Some Americans have been giving plasma this way as often as twice a week for decades, with no apparent ill effects. But there have not been many studies devised to detect long-term effects. Germany allows people to give plasma this way only 38 times a year, compared with 104 in the United States. 
 The Mexican donors need visas that require they have a job and a permanent address. The donor's health is checked on each visit, and each donation is tested for five viruses. Most of the Mexicans interviewed said they had no problems with donating, though it can sometimes leave them lightheaded if they don't have adequate nutrition. 
 Reynaldo Bueno Sifuentes, who began giving plasma a year ago when overtime was cut at the auto parts factory where he works, said he did not take the recommended vitamins because they were expensive. He said the donations left him tired, and that when overtime was restored three months ago, he stopped selling plasma. 
 But many of the Mexican donors are worried less about their health than the possibility that immigration officials will decide the donations constitute work in the United States, in violation of their visas. 
 Some advocates for Mexican border workers see the plasma donations mostly as evidence of inadequate factory wages. ''It provides a little escape valve'' from economic hardship, says Ricardo Hernandez of the American Friends Service Committee, which works closely with a Mexican organization, Comite Fronterizo de Obreras. 
 Juan Carlos Torres, a 35-year-old father of three, started selling plasma when he lost his factory job three years ago. But he has continued to do so even after finding a new job because he doesn't want to give up the extra income. To him, he says, ''It's a business now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Esmeralda Delgado of Piedras Negras, Mexico, earns money by giving plasma in Texas. Plasma collected across the United States is used to make expensive medical treatments. (BU1)
Patricia Hernandez, left, and Alejandra Baca donate plasma twice a week in Eagle Pass, Tex., a border town with 27,000 people and two plasma collection centers.
Esmeralda Delgado shops after giving plasma. Payments to donors are legal in few other nations.
 Reynaldo Bueno Sifuentes with his children. When his hours at work were reduced, he began to give plasma. He said he did not take the recommended vitamins, because they were expensive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BLOOD DONATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BLOOD BANKS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (87%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); HEMOPHILIA (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); ETHICS (67%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (66%); IMMUNOLOGY (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (62%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); YUMA, AZ, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



171 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; Pg. 122

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Core Values

BYLINE: By LYNN HIRSCHBERG

 BODY:
Despite a record-setting, recession-proof box office, the movie business has lost its middle. Blockbusters, based largely on toys and comic books, which can be turned into hugely lucrative franchises for the studios, have all but replaced movies aimed at a smaller and perhaps more discerning audience. In the recent past, the studios wanted their slates to contain all sorts of movies at different budgets, but today certain equations seem to dominate. Will the movie have a star attached? (Add $20 million to your cost.) Will it play around the world? (Add a no-English-necessary action component.) Will it appeal to the widest possible audience? (Meaning, males 18-49.) 
 In autumn, around awards season, the menu shifts toward more adult fare, but the studios' emphasis is still on big. Last year, for instance, Warner Brothers decided not to release ''Slumdog Millionaire''because it felt no one in America wanted to see a movie set in Mumbai, partially in another language. Despite the film's low budget, the Warner execs decided that the considerable cost of distribution and promotion would far surpass the estimated profits. Instead, in 2008, they preferred to spend their money on hugely expensive movies like ''Speed Racer''(which lost tens of millions of dollars) and the record-setting ''Dark Knight'' (which made $530 million). Like most studios, Warner preferred the big gamble to the small. And when ''Slumdog'' was scooped up by Fox Searchlight, where it made more than $140 million and won the Academy Award for best picture, Warner said it did not regret its decision. The thinking seemed to be: better a loud, super-expensive popcorn extravaganza than a quieter, smaller (and riskier) film.
 In this big-is-better environment, a new independent movement has emerged. It has the (unfortunate) title of ''mumblecore,'' a cinematic genre that focuses on characters, mostly in their mid to late 20s, who are caught somewhere between college and adulthood. Although the characters in these films don't actually mumble, they are, mostly, in a state of in-between-ness. Emotions are keenly felt but, as in life, not always clearly enunciated. Characters are neither poor nor rich, particularly successful nor unsuccessful -- they're a little aimless, but aware of that aimlessness. It's a limbo world: stories of ill-timed love affairs, small misunderstandings between friends, missed cues and minor victories. The intimacy of the genre is its strength; the nature of youth -- and all that represents, even into middle age -- is the heartbeat of these movies.
 The first mumblecore film to garner attention wasAndrew Bujalski's ''Funny Ha Ha''in 2002. Like subsequent mumblecore films, it was made on a tiny budget (a low-budget studio-backed ''independent'' may cost as much as $10 million, while a mumblecore budget can be as low as $1,500) and starred what seemed to be nonactors. Bujalski represented the East Coast wing of the movement, while Mark and Jay Duplass were making movies with a similar mentality on the West Coast. ''The Puffy Chair''-- directed by Jay, written by both and starring Mark -- was my first exposure to mumblecore. It's the story of a road trip with a mission, one that subtly reveals the tensions between two brothers and the women in their life. Like Bujalski, the Duplasses share a sensibility: they work with friends and family who double as actors, producers and crew. Nobody really gets paid much (if at all), and the mood on the set is a combination of speed and focused attention. There are few frills and a bare-bones aesthetic. Unlike, say,Quentin Tarantino, who wanted ''Reservoir Dogs,''his first film, to evoke the style of Godard and Scorsese, the mumblecore team is aiming more for the territory ofJohn Cassavetes (sans the violence). Cassavetes directed movies with his friends and his wife in his home. He was trying to plumb the depths of the human psyche. Mumblecore shares that goal, but the approach is less aggressive, softer. Where Cassavetes was dark and murky, these filmmakers are less fraught and generally more optimistic. Their community seems to be lighter, more fluid, without Cassavetes's free-floating sense of dread and potential loss.
 But they share an intensity. Mumblecore is, at heart, about small defining moments: the affair that didn't quite happen, the conversation that shouldn't have taken place, the missed opportunity and the lost chance. In ''Humpday,''which was released in July,Joshua Leonard andMark Duplass play former college buddies who dare each other to make a gay porno starring themselves. Duplass's character is married and is afraid he has lost all bohemian impulses, while Leonard's character has been restlessly roaming the globe. These two straight guys are afraid of being conventional, staid, old.
 Lynn Shelton, who wrote and directed ''Humpday'' (and who also co-stars as a bisexual woman), has a casual approach to the sex scenes -- they stop and start like sex scenes in life. That's another defining element of mumblecore films -- the romantic entanglements have a documentary, real-time quality. In ''Medicine for Melancholy,''directed by Barry Jenkins, a couple walk around San Francisco after their first night together, and in ''In Search of a Midnight Kiss,''which was directed by Alex Holdridge, the actor Scoot McNairy looks for love in Los Angeles.Joe Swanberg, who at 28 has directed and starred in more than a dozen mumblecore films, bases most of his work on the complex nature of sexual entanglements. His most recent film, ''Alexander the Last,''starredJess Weixler as a married actress who is attracted to a fellow actor. When her sister starts sleeping with him, jealousy and passion collide.
 This emphasis on sexual tension is reason enough for the studios to take notice of the mumblecore movement. Big-budget romantic comedies have become stale and formulaic; the women in these movies are usually after the same goal -- a husband who will complete them. In hits like ''The Ugly Truth''or ''The Proposal,''ambitious women are seen as sexless and, despite their beauty, unattractive to men. Mumblecore makes no such assumptions. The comedic elements are not based on physical debasement -- instead, the lo-fi approach gives romantic encounters a greater authenticity.
 Fox Searchlight realized this when it hired the Duplass brothers to write and direct a movie for the studio, which will starMarisa Tomei. Naturally, there have been charges of selling out and a fear that the purity of mumblecore will be corrupted by bigger budgets and known stars. As with any movement, factions have emerged. For our photo shoot, Swanberg did not want to be shot with the ''Humpday'' cast, as he feels they've become mainstream.Greta Gerwig, who is perhaps the first break-out female star of the movement, canceled our shoot at the last moment because she is currently starring in aNoah Baumbach film and mumblecore is in her past. And Bujalski flatly refused to participate. Vague reasons were given, but it became clear that he does not want to be categorized or made part of this club.
 I understand (sort of), but I am also impressed by the ingenuity and individuality that movies like these allow and encourage. ''Alexander the Last'' was never seen in theaters: it was shown at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex. (the home of all things mumblecore -- it is where the name was born in 2005). The movie received glowing reviews, and IFC made it available via its on-demand IFC Festival Direct network. This new form of distribution may become a model for other independent releases like ''The Snake,''a comedy written and directed by Adam Goldstein and Eric Kutner, which was also a hit at South by Southwest. While a major theatrical release can cost millions, pay-per-view services may pave the way for even greater creative freedom. ''I just want to have impact,'' Swanberg told me last spring. ''This generation of filmmakers just might change things.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FILM GENRES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



172 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OPEN & SHUT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle of a Changing City

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
IPODMEISTER, on 41st Avenue in Long Island City, will bring a smile (and an iPod or other electronic goody) to anyone hoping to liquidate a CD collection. The company was started by Kris Schrey, who said that when he tried to sell off his CDs a few years back he was humiliated by snarky music shop employees who ridiculed his musical taste and then lowballed him. Learning of the demand overseas for CDs and DVDs, Mr. Schrey started an online business through which a customer could mail in a CD library and receive an iPod, iPhone or other device based on the size of the collection. (An iPod can be had for 200 discs; more ground rules are at ipodmeister.com.) Last month the venture rented a 4,000-square-foot loft with a loading dock and a waiting room. Now customers can bring in their collections in person -- no ridiculing, Mr. Schrey promises. ''The pop goes to the Caribbean, the rock goes to Eastern Europe, and the good classical and jazz goes to Korea and Taiwan.'' 
 PAPAYA KING, on the southwest corner of Seventh Avenue and 14th Street, was a familiar sight, with its yellow and red neon signs and a mural at the subway entrance claiming its hot dogs were ''tastier than filet mignon.'' One would think the inexpensive dog-and-fruit-juice outlet would thrive in this economy, but Dan Horan, chief executive of Papaya King, which has two other outlets in the city, said the company got an enticing offer to sell the remainder of its lease at the site. ''For me that place was New York,'' said Sara Harvey, 36, who moved here last year from South Carolina and works nearby. She liked the $4.59 special: a 16-ounce drink and two dogs with sauerkraut, onions or relish. Papaya King ''made this area feel like a neighborhood,'' she said. ''It had chutzpah.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPEN: Nov. 10, Long Island City, Queens
 SHUT: Nov. 23, Chelsea (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); MUSIC STORES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); EUROPE (69%); NORTHERN ASIA (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



173 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: SHOW THEM THE MONEY

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
UP in the air you may meet Ryan Bingham, an ancient mariner of sorts who has, over the years (at least in Walter Kirn's novel, where he originated) encountered just about everyone who has flown business class across the spokes and hubs of this great land. Ryan is capitalism with a handsome face: efficient, optimistic, confident without undue arrogance. He's a winner, and he belongs to a winners' club that anyone with sufficient grit or good fortune can join. You've met some of the other club members, and when you run into the new, gray-haired George Clooney version of Ryan in Jason Reitman's ''Up in the Air'' you may find yourself wondering: Does he know Jerry Maguire? 
 Remember Jerry Maguire? I don't mean the memorable catchphrases -- ''You had me at hello,'' ''You complete me,'' ''Show me the money'' -- though there is something to be said for a movie about business that crystallizes its themes so effortlessly in aphorisms. I'm thinking of the man himself, perfectly embodied by Tom Cruise at a point in his career close enough to ''Risky Business'' and ''Top Gun'' that some of his bratty winner's vigor was still intact, but far enough from Oprah's couch that the energy was not yet off-putting. In 1996 Jerry was a person very much of his moment: post-Cold War, pre-9/11, mid-boom. He was also, for his moment, the incarnation of a venerable American ideal.
 Not the mythical self-made man -- surely Jerry had risen from the comfortable middle of the socioeconomic heap -- but rather a man in the process of unmaking and remaking himself. In the course of Cameron Crowe's movie, the professional, personal and romantic aspects of Jerry's life are all dismantled and put back together again, sometimes by accident, sometimes by his agency, leaving him more or less where he started and yet at the same time completely transformed. He starts out in the grip of a vision, suddenly gifted with the ability to see everything wrong with his field (he's an agent representing professional athletes) and able to put his insights into prose. The result is a manifesto, a mission statement that earns him the apparent admiration of his colleagues and costs him his job. 
 What makes ''Jerry Maguire'' so engrossing, so full of surprises even on repeat viewings, is the odd, syncopated rhythm of triumph and loss that animates Jerry's story. He chooses to take his humiliation as vindication, and sets off to start his own company with a single client (Cuba Gooding Jr.'s Rod Tidwell) and a lone employee (Renee Zellweger's Dorothy Boyd), who in due course becomes his wife. And so, before the movie has reached its midway point, he has it all. But of course he has it all wrong. The outward trappings of fulfillment are not yet matched by his inner condition, and so he must undergo further realignment, to become a better friend, a better husband, a better agent and a better man.
 A representative man. Jerry is a full-blooded avatar of the Protestant-Emersonian tradition that continues to flourish, often unrecognized, in American civic culture, and in our popular art as well. He believes, above all -- and the movie all but insists -- that it is possible for apparently discrepant values and identities to be perfectly congruent. Decency, wealth, love, fame: these are not contradictory but rather mutually reinforcing expressions of that secular grace known as happiness. We are innately entitled to pursue it, and a broad highway and a good car will only speed the capture. 
 If Jerry's ambition seems for a while to undermine his ability to sustain his connections with his wife and best friend, that is not because of any inherently destabilizing imbalance between love and work. It is because he has not yet learned to harmonize those things. 
 The way he learns is through adversity, a habit that makes him a walking illustration not only of management-philosophy boilerplate, but also of the doctrine of the fortunate fall, whereby sin is understood as beneficial because it makes redemption possible. ''Jerry Maguire'' is a success story made up of episodes of failure. It works like a charm, and partakes of a very old magic. Surely Jerry is, in his way, a descendant of George Bailey from ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' who has to fail and falter so many times on his way to a Christmas apotheosis. Love and work, civic duty, family responsibility and selfish ambition have to pull him apart in every direction before he can pull himself together into the person he was always meant to be: solid citizen and husband, doting father and prosperous businessman. George's repeated losses make that triumph sweeter and, in the durable logic of this kind of fairy tale, all the more real.
 Turning setbacks into opportunities is part of the gospel that Ryan Bingham preaches too, but here it is more snake oil than healing elixir. This is partly a difference in vocation: Jerry's job is to advance the careers of others; Ryan's is to end them. He is a soft-voiced angel of professional death, employed by a consulting firm that companies hire to do the dirty work of downsizing. 
 In this he is, as much as Jerry Maguire or George Bailey, a man of his time. George's version of capitalism was rooted in place and community, prudent investment and steady growth. Jerry's end-of-the-century American dream is predicated on expansion, like bread dough (or, as the case may be, a soap bubble), and on a happy principle of reciprocal benefit. The better Rod plays, the richer Jerry can make him, which in turn makes Jerry more successful, and thus free to focus his energies on the nonmaterial things that really matter. But Ryan, in the movie version of ''Up in the Air,'' lives in a land of subtraction and brutal zero-sum accounting. The worse things are for his clients -- his victims, really -- the better they are for him and his bosses. 
 In Mr. Kirn's novel this economy is somewhat abstract, and the layoffs Ryan perpetrates are more signs of a complicated reshuffling of the business world than symptoms of potential collapse. That is because the literary Ryan Bingham is, more or less, a contemporary of Jerry Maguire. (George Clooney, by the way, is just a year older than Tom Cruise.) Published in 2001, ''Up in the Air'' is a late, half-comic expression of the anxieties of the boom years, its fine satirical observations tending toward (and finally upended by) a helter-skelter conclusion that Mr. Reitman has wisely jettisoned. But the novel's shortcomings are in their own way premonitory. The book, like Jonathan Franzen's ''Corrections,'' published the same year, forces itself to an overblown conclusion because the logic of narrative, and perhaps also of history, seemed to demand a calamity.
 The movie ''Up in the Air,'' floating in the same ether of departure lounges and airport hotels as the book -- familiar territory for Jerry Maguire, though back then there was no Wi-Fi or Department of Homeland Security -- suggests that we still don't know what hit us. The film's most subtle and radical effect is the way it takes up its themes of alienation and self-estrangement in a familiar, almost comforting way and then destroys that sense of comfort. 
 The story of Ryan Bingham, we assume, will be the tale of a man who discovers the flaws in his happiness and sets out to correct them, so that he can become a better version of the person he already is. We know, before he does, that his freedom is laced with loneliness, and that he will discover, beneath his restlessness, an urge to settle down. There will be some turbulence, but when the gravitational pull of forces of family and commitment assert themselves, surely an easy landing is in store.
 In the meantime Ryan's essential gravity reveals itself through his relationship, at once rivalrous and tutelary, with a younger colleague who represents a scary new way of doing business. This character, wonderfully played by Anna Kendrick, is also someone we might recognize. She is a version of the callow hotshot played by Topher Grace in Chris and Paul Weitz's lovely and underrated ''In Good Company,'' and, as such, a fixture in movies about American business. The kid comes in full of shiny new ideas that the old-timer (Dennis Quaid in ''Company'') scoffs at partly because he's threatened, and the kid views the old ways as so much sentimental folklore. By the end each has learned something, and the lifeblood of capitalism is renewed with minimal bloodshed.
 ''Up in the Air'' does not entirely give up on that story, or on the ideal of perfect happiness represented by ''Jerry Maguire.'' But the title betrays a hint of disquiet that, by the end, has grown into something more. Not an intimation of catastrophe, exactly, but a tremor that is more troubling for being less dramatic. When Ryan dispenses his cold comfort to the people he lays off -- telling them that, if they stick to the project of self-making and look for silver linings in the clouds, everything will work out -- he half-believes his own patter, as any good salesman would. So do we, even if we know better. 
 Watching him, you can't help but believe Ryan will win in the end, that the singular happiness he has postponed and pursued his whole life will catch up with him in the end. Surely, if anyone can have it all, it's this guy. Come on, he's George Clooney!
 But what if he can't? If nothing -- or no one -- will complete him? And what about the rest of us, stuck on the ground or braced for a hard landing? Remember that song from ''Jerry Maguire?'' It was called ''Free Falling.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The whippersnappers cometh: Anna Kendrick plays the callow hotshot to George Clooney's old pro in ''Up in the Air,'' left. In Chris and Paul Weitz's ''Good Company,'' right, Topher Grace (far right) plays a young executive to Dennis Quaid's old-timer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT
GLEN WILSON/UNIVERSAL STUDIOS)
James Stewart's character in ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' top, is a precursor to Tom Cruise's in ''Jerry Maguire,'' above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHOTOFEST
 TRISTAR PICTURES/PHOTOFEST) (AR16) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) (AR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); COLD WAR (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (69%); TOM CRUISE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



174 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Architect, Developer, Experimenter

BYLINE: By ALEC APPELBAUM

 BODY:
IF West Chelsea seems like a canvas for ambitious architects and their indulgent developers, the midrise condominium at 459 West 18th Street makes a disciplined self-portrait. 
 The 11-story black-and-white building looks restrained on a corner between the irregular-grid tower that Jean Nouvel designed at 100 11th Avenue and the rippling facade that Audrey Matlock concocted for Chelsea Modern. 
 Designed by Jared Della Valle and Andrew Bernheimer of Della Valle Bernheimer, a small but prestigious architecture firm in Dumbo, Brooklyn, the inverted peak building is a case study for architects in selling high design in a turbulent market. It is also the first venture in a new business. 
 Materials, predominantly prefabricated, were chosen to support a construction schedule quick enough to calm a troubled lender and a pricing scheme that would appeal to buyers after the financial markets collapsed.
 The building, near the High Line, with loftlike full-floor apartments, is Mr. Della Valle's first foray as a developer, in partnership with Katherine McConvey. 
 Mr. Della Valle and Ms. McConvey, a design client, bought the odd-sized parcel from Michael O'Neill for $5 million in 2006 with the intention of developing it together. By 2007, after a now-defunct lender called United Commercial Bank gave the partners a $19 million mortgage for construction, Mr. Della Valle and Ms. McConvey decided to form Alloy Development (complete with duly bend-resistant business cards). Ms. McConvey is the chief executive, and Mr. Della Valle is the president.
 ''This site is 100 feet deep on the east side and 50 feet deep on the west,'' Mr. Della Valle said of its appeal as a residential lot in the fast-changing neighborhood. ''Because we have 50 feet in width, we can get 100 feet of glass in each apartment, where most full-floors in TriBeCa sit on a 25-foot lot with impediments to light and air.'' 
 Mr. Della Valle said that because he was a developer as well as an architect of the project, it was easier to keep construction costs under control. ''Our goal was to deliver a true three-bedroom, and we aimed to cost $50 per square foot less than everybody else on the block,'' he said. 
 And because the architect and developer were on the same page, Mr. Della Valle said, they were able to make choices that both saved time and satisfied their aesthetic, like rectangular tubs that have no surrounding skirt. The built-in unity over design decisions helped shave four or five months from the development process. 
 For all that cohesion, the financial-market collapse in 2008 troubled the project's path. Two buyers broke their contracts after the financial crisis hit, Mr. Della Valle said, but the deals were resolved in the developer's favor. Today, Mr. Della Valle said, 7 of the building's 10 apartments have sold. Mr. Della Valle said buyers paid $2.48 million to $3.8 million, in line with asking prices. 
 ''We've closed enough units that we're comfortable,'' he said. ''Our market position was never picky, because we knew Jean Nouvel was going to be here and we wanted to be less expensive than that.''
 According to the appraiser Jonathan J. Miller, enterprising sorts like Mr. Della Valle and Ms. McConvey who bought West Chelsea land before the High Line arrived, got it cheaply enough that they should be able to profit from the area's new luster. Mr. Miller also said that buyers west of Eighth Avenue care more about living in a funky new neighborhood than about opulent amenities. 
 From the start, Alloy worked lean. For instance, Mr. Nouvel's outre design required that every window on his tower assume a unique shape. For 459 West 18th Street, a company in China made the windows, which were then fitted into panels by International Exterior Fabricators of Calverton, N.Y., to create the facades. The panels were delivered on a flatbed truck, and the prefabricated exterior went up in less than two weeks.
 ''It cleared the Manhattan Bridge by an inch and a half,'' Mr. Della Valle said, laughing. ''They said they would never use panels this big again.'' 
 Alloy hopes to plant other stakes in a nascent far-west neighborhood. The firm controls three parcels from 10th to 11th Avenues and 35th to 36th Street, with an option for 22,500 more square feet fronting a planned park boulevard in the eventual Hudson Yards district. 
 ''We're actively seeking partners,'' Mr. Della Valle said. ''It's out of our bailiwick in terms of scale.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HUDSON VIEW: Jared Della Valle peers out a window at 459 West 18th Street, which he designed with Andrew Bernheimer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); CASE STUDIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LTD (55%); EAST WEST BANCORP INC (55%)

TICKER: EWBC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



175 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Coast Housing Relief

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Don't Forget the Gulf States'' (editorial, Nov. 25) rightly pointed out the immense need for affordable housing that still exists in the Gulf Coast and the immobilizing effect of the larger economic downturn. 
 But this problem cannot be fully addressed by giving developers only more time to complete construction. Congress must also pass the bipartisan bills that have been introduced in Congress, H.R. 2995 and S. 1326, to allow disaster credits in the Gulf Coast and Midwest to be included in the exchange program in the stimulus bill, intended specifically to address the current market failure of tax credits -- a provision the original authors say was their intent. 
 Alternatively, the Treasury Department could correct this unintentional omission through an administrative ruling.
 Six thousand units are at risk of not being built, but many of these will still not go forward without the inclusion of disaster tax credits in the stimulus. Congress must take measures to fix this problem more completely, so that many of the regions' displaced families -- either homeless, living doubled up or in abandoned buildings -- have a safe, affordable place to live. 
 Milton Bailey President Louisiana Housing Finance Agency Baton Rouge, La., Nov. 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (66%) SOUTHEAST USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



176 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Officials Say They Saw a Spike in Threats Against Obama Early in His Term

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The young Marine's rogue mission, laid out with maps and photographs, was as straightforward as it was chilling. He called it Operation Patriot.
 The Marine, Kody Brittingham, a 20-year-old lance corporal, wrote that he had taken an oath to ''protect against all enemies, both foreign and domestic.'' In a signed ''letter of intent,'' tucked away in his barracks at Camp Lejeune, he identified a ''domestic enemy'' he planned to eliminate last winter: President Obama.
 The details of this threat, which were revealed at his arraignment hearing in North Carolina, have not previously been reported. Mr. Brittingham pleaded guilty in August and awaits sentencing on charges of threatening to kill the president and attempted armed robbery. 
 It is one of the cases in a spike of threats against Mr. Obama before his inauguration and in the early months of his presidency, raising deep concerns inside the Secret Service and at the White House. 
 The threats have leveled off in recent months, officials said, and Mr. Obama now receives about the same as his two most recent predecessors. But several officials said they took no solace that the volume of reports had receded because it was the nature of the threats that concern them and because the factors behind the increase remain -- Mr. Obama's race prime among them. 
 While the story of the Virginia couple who crashed a state dinner last month has drawn much attention to the security around Mr. Obama, it is threats from far beyond the White House gates that have most turned up the pressure on the Secret Service.
 ''It only takes one case to ripen to really change the entire dynamic of the country,'' said Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, whose department oversees the Secret Service. ''This has to be a zero failure performance.''
 The agency has expanded its Internet Threat Desk, where online threats are monitored and investigated. Ms. Napolitano goes to the White House each month to review threats against Mr. Obama with Rahm Emanuel, the president's chief of staff. At a time when the administration and Congress are looking for ways to trim federal spending, the Secret Service is often asked what more it needs.
 A review of dozens of court records and police reports by The New York Times uncovered an array of cases, most of which did not gain public attention even as they rang alarm bells at some of the highest levels of the government. Some involved suspects with a history of violence or mental illness and easy access to guns and explosives, while others involved men whose menacing talk was ultimately deemed to be just that by the authorities.
 An airport security guard in New Jersey, who had 43 guns and allegedly hollow-point bullets at home, was charged with making threats against a president after co-workers told the authorities that he had talked about cutting a hole in a fence to shoot Mr. Obama on the day before the president was to land at Newark International Airport. 
 The man, John Brek, spent 29 days in jail, which was counted as time served on a lesser charge after the local authorities deemed that he was not a threat. ''He's a talker,'' said an Essex County prosecutor on the case, Keith Harvest. (In an interview, Mr. Brek said he had only pointed to the hole in the fence as a potential security breach.)
 An Arizona pastor drew the attention of agents after he delivered a sermon that included pleas for Mr. Obama's death at the very time he and his family visited the state. 
 While cases involving heated political rhetoric are seldom prosecuted, they are often investigated by the authorities, including the case of a Republican candidate for governor in Idaho who made a hunting-season joke about ''Obama tags.'' ''We'd buy some of those,'' he said.
 The Secret Service also checked in with a Pennsylvania newspaper that ran a classified advertisement placed by a customer, which declared: ''May Obama follow in the steps of Lincoln, Garfield, McKinley and Kennedy,'' and with a Florida radio talk show host who bantered with an anti-Obama listener, who allegedly discussed his frustration with Mr. Obama by saying he was practicing his shooting skills.
 ''We don't have the luxury of saying, 'That's just a political statement,' '' said Edwin Donovan, a spokesman for the Secret Service. ''We don't know someone's intent until we go out and ask them about it.''
 The couple that gained access to the state dinner, which led to three agents being placed on administrative leave, is the only known example of a misstep by the Secret Service in its handling of Mr. Obama's security. But the White House acknowledged in its own investigation that its staff members also could have done more to prevent the breach. 
 Many of the reported threats against Mr. Obama bear a resemblance to those against President George W. Bush, who in his last year in office faced alleged threats from at least two men -- one in Maine, the other in Louisiana -- who the authorities said were found to have possessed weapons, records show.
 Yet officials acknowledge in interviews that every president faces new twists and that the nature of the reports can even vary between political parties -- though, as the first black president, Mr. Obama draws many threats uniquely his own. He began receiving Secret Service protection in May 2007, well before he emerged as the likely Democratic nominee, because of threats against him. At the time, he urged voters to ''stop worrying'' about his safety, fearful that it could hurt his political chances. 
 In the later stages of the campaign, the authorities uncovered at least two alleged race-inspired plots to assassinate Mr. Obama -- one during the Democratic convention in Denver that was ultimately deemed not a ''credible threat,'' another involving skinheads from Arkansas and Tennessee. 
 They have tracked several potential threats since then, including from a man in La Mesa, Calif., who allegedly posted two racially charged missives against Mr. Obama on a Yahoo message board with the words ''he will have a 50 cal in the head soon.'' 
 While the big increase in threats against Mr. Obama took place in the first four months of his presidency, officials say the depressed economy has contributed to an increase in antigovernment sentiment, which particularly alarmed federal officials over the summer. 
 ''They are absolutely totally aware that the spike did occur, and they are watching for any trends that would indicate it's going to spike again,'' said W. Ralph Basham, a former director of the service who keeps in contact with Mark Sullivan, the current director. 
 Making the job that much more difficult, Mr. Basham said, is that many would-be assassins do not telegraph their intentions loudly enough to tip off the Secret Service.
 Indeed, records in the case of Mr. Brittingham -- which prosecutors, the Secret Service and defense lawyers would not discuss in detail -- indicate that agents would not have found out about his plot had he not been arrested in connection with an attempted armed robbery in December.
 In the court appearance last August, when Mr. Brittingham pleaded guilty, federal prosecutors said the Secret Service learned about the assassination plot after his arrest, when Marine officials searched a barracks at Camp Lejeune and discovered detailed maps of the Capitol building and photographs of Mr. Obama along with his vital statistics. 
 One of the prosecutors, Eric Evenson, told the judge that a witness reported that Mr. Brittingham had said, ''We are the Marines fighting Osama, we should do the same for Obama.'' 
 The documents found at the barracks indicated that Mr. Brittingham was focusing on an attempt in Washington. But, had he not been arrested, he would have conceivably had another opportunity, when Mr. Obama visited Camp Lejeune in February.
 Asked if extra precautions were taken for that visit given the Brittingham case, Mr. Donovan, the Secret Service spokesman, said, ''There are no extra precautions to take, since we put forth the maximum effort all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Brek, 55
Joshua Bowman, 28
Kody Brittingham, 20
 Raymond Geisel, 22 (A36) CHART: A Detailed Look at Five Cases: Five cases in which people have been accused of threatening President Obama. (CHART BY KITTY BENNETT) (A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); ROBBERY (70%); AVIATION SECURITY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); SENTENCING (69%); AIRPORTS (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JANET NAPOLITANO (55%); RAHM EMANUEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



177 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4483 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Situation Room: How a War Plan Evolved

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Reporting was contributed by Elisabeth Bumiller, Helene Cooper, Carlotta Gall, Carl Hulse, Mark Landler, Mark Mazzetti, David E. Sanger, Eric Schmitt, Scott Shane and Thom Shanker.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On the afternoon he held the eighth meeting of his Afghanistan review, President Obama arrived in the White House Situation Room ruminating about war. He had come from Arlington National Cemetery, where he had wandered among the chalky white tombstones of those who had fallen in the rugged mountains of Central Asia.
 How much their sacrifice weighed on him that Veterans Day last month, he did not say. But his advisers say he was haunted by the human toll as he wrestled with what to do about the eight-year-old war. Just a month earlier, he had mentioned to them his visits to wounded soldiers at the Army hospital in Washington. ''I don't want to be going to Walter Reed for another eight years,'' he said then.
 The economic cost was troubling him as well after he received a private budget memo estimating that an expanded presence would cost $1 trillion over 10 years, roughly the same as his health care plan. 
 Now as his top military adviser ran through a slide show of options, Mr. Obama expressed frustration. He held up a chart showing how reinforcements would flow into Afghanistan over 18 months and eventually begin to pull out, a bell curve that meant American forces would be there for years to come.
 ''I want this pushed to the left,'' he told advisers, pointing to the bell curve. In other words, the troops should be in sooner, then out sooner.
 When the history of the Obama presidency is written, that day with the chart may prove to be a turning point, the moment a young commander in chief set in motion a high-stakes gamble to turn around a losing war. By moving the bell curve to the left, Mr. Obama decided to send 30,000 troops mostly in the next six months and then begin pulling them out a year after that, betting that a quick jolt of extra forces could knock the enemy back on its heels enough for the Afghans to take over the fight.
 The three-month review that led to the escalate-then-exit strategy is a case study in decision making in the Obama White House -- intense, methodical, rigorous, earnest and at times deeply frustrating for nearly all involved. It was a virtual seminar in Afghanistan and Pakistan, led by a president described by one participant as something ''between a college professor and a gentle cross-examiner.''
 Mr. Obama peppered advisers with questions and showed an insatiable demand for information, taxing analysts who prepared three dozen intelligence reports for him and Pentagon staff members who churned out thousands of pages of documents.
 This account of how the president reached his decision is based on dozens of interviews with participants as well as a review of notes some of them took during Mr. Obama's 10 meetings with his national security team. Most of those interviewed spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, but their accounts have been matched against those of other participants wherever possible.
 Mr. Obama devoted so much time to the Afghan issue -- nearly 11 hours on the day after Thanksgiving alone -- that he joked, ''I've got more deeply in the weeds than a president should, and now you guys need to solve this.'' He invited competing voices to debate in front of him, while guarding his own thoughts. Even David Axelrod, arguably his closest adviser, did not know where Mr. Obama would come out until just before Thanksgiving. 
 With the result uncertain, the outsize personalities on his team vied for his favor, sometimes sharply disagreeing as they made their arguments. The White House suspected the military of leaking details of the review to put pressure on the president. The military and the State Department suspected the White House of leaking to undercut the case for more troops. The president erupted at the leaks with an anger advisers had rarely seen, but he did little to shut down the public clash within his own government. 
 ''The president welcomed a full range of opinions and invited contrary points of view,'' Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said in an interview last month. ''And I thought it was a very healthy experience because people took him up on it. And one thing we didn't want -- to have a decision made and then have somebody say, 'Oh, by the way.' No, come forward now or forever hold your peace.''
 The decision represents a complicated evolution in Mr. Obama's thinking. He began the process clearly skeptical of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal's request for 40,000 more troops, but the more he learned about the consequences of failure, and the more he narrowed the mission, the more he gravitated toward a robust if temporary buildup, guided in particular by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.
 Yet even now, he appears ambivalent about what some call ''Obama's war.'' Just two weeks before General McChrystal warned of failure at the end of August, Mr. Obama described Afghanistan as a ''war of necessity.'' When he announced his new strategy last week, those words were nowhere to be found. Instead, while recommitting to the war on Al Qaeda, he made clear that the larger struggle for Afghanistan had to be balanced against the cost in blood and treasure and brought to an end.
 Aides, though, said the arduous review gave Mr. Obama comfort that he had found the best course he could. ''The process was exhaustive, but any time you get the president of the United States to devote 25 hours, anytime you get that kind of commitment, you know it was serious business,'' said Gen. James L. Jones, the president's national security adviser. ''From the very first meeting, everyone started with set opinions. And no opinion was the same by the end of the process.''
 Taking Control of a War
 Mr. Obama ran for president supportive of the so-called good war in Afghanistan and vowing to send more troops, but he talked about it primarily as a way of attacking Republicans for diverting resources to Iraq, which he described as a war of choice. Only after taking office, as casualties mounted and the Taliban gained momentum, did Mr. Obama really begin to confront what to do.
 Even before completing a review of the war, he ordered the military to send 21,000 more troops there, bringing the force to 68,000. But tension between the White House and the military soon emerged when General Jones, a retired Marine four-star general, traveled to Afghanistan in the summer and was surprised to hear officers already talking about more troops. He made it clear that no more troops were in the offing.
 With the approach of Afghanistan's presidential election in August, Mr. Obama's two new envoys -- Richard C. Holbrooke, the president's special representative to the region, and Lt. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry, a retired commander of troops in Afghanistan now serving as ambassador -- warned of trouble, including the possibility of angry Afghans marching on the American Embassy or outright civil war.
 ''There are 10 ways this can turn out,'' one administration official said, summing up the envoys' presentation, ''and 9 of them are messy.''
 The worst did not happen, but widespread fraud tainted the election and shocked some in the White House as they realized that their partner in Kabul, President Hamid Karzai, was hopelessly compromised in terms of public credibility.
 At the same time, the Taliban kept making gains. The Central Intelligence Agency drew up detailed maps in August charting the steady progression of the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan, maps that would later be used extensively during the president's review. General McChrystal submitted his own dire assessment of the situation, warning of ''mission failure'' without a fresh infusion of troops.
 While General McChrystal did not submit a specific troop request at that point, the White House knew it was coming and set out to figure out what to do. General Jones organized a series of meetings that he envisioned lasting a few weeks. Before each one, he convened a rehearsal session to impose discipline -- ''get rid of the chaff,'' one official put it -- that included Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Gates and other cabinet-level officials. Mr. Biden made a practice of writing a separate private memo to Mr. Obama before each meeting, outlining his thoughts.
 The first meeting with the president took place on Sept. 13, a Sunday, and was not disclosed to the public that day. For hours, Mr. Obama and his top advisers pored through intelligence reports.
 Unsatisfied, the president posed a series of questions: Does America need to defeat the Taliban to defeat Al Qaeda? Can a counterinsurgency strategy work in Afghanistan given the problems with its government? If the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan, would nuclear-armed Pakistan be next? 
 The deep skepticism he expressed at that opening session was reinforced by Mr. Biden, who rushed back overnight from a California trip to participate. Just as he had done in the spring, Mr. Biden expressed opposition to an expansive strategy requiring a big troop influx. Instead, he put an alternative on the table -- rather than focus on nation building and population protection, do more to disrupt the Taliban, improve the quality of the training of Afghan forces and expand reconciliation efforts to peel off some Taliban fighters.
 Mr. Biden quickly became the most outspoken critic of the expected McChrystal troop request, arguing that Pakistan was the bigger priority, since that is where Al Qaeda is mainly based. ''He was the bull in the china shop,'' said one admiring administration official. 
 But others were nodding their heads at some of what he was saying, too, including General Jones and Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff.
 A Review Becomes News
 The quiet review burst into public view when General McChrystal's secret report was leaked to Bob Woodward of The Washington Post a week after the first meeting. The general's grim assessment jolted Washington and lent urgency to the question of what to do to avoid defeat in Afghanistan.
 Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen. David H. Petraeus, the regional commander, secretly flew to an American air base in Germany for a four-hour meeting with General McChrystal on Sept. 25. He handed them his troop request on paper -- there were no electronic versions and barely 20 copies in all.
 The request outlined three options for different missions: sending 80,000 more troops to conduct a robust counterinsurgency campaign throughout the country; 40,000 troops to reinforce the southern and eastern areas where the Taliban are strongest; or 10,000 to 15,000 troops mainly to train Afghan forces.
 General Petraeus took one copy, while Admiral Mullen took two back to Washington and dropped one off at Mr. Gates's home next to his in a small military compound in Washington. But no one sent the document to the White House, intending to process it through the Pentagon review first.
 Mr. Obama was focused on another report. At 10 p.m. on Sept. 29, he called over from the White House residence to the West Wing to ask for a copy of the first Afghanistan strategy he approved in March to ramp up the fight against Al Qaeda and the Taliban while increasing civilian assistance. A deputy national security adviser, Denis McDonough, brought him a copy to reread overnight. When his national security team met the next day, Mr. Obama complained that elements of that plan had never been enacted.
 The group went over the McChrystal assessment and drilled in on what the core goal should be. Some thought that General McChrystal interpreted the March strategy more ambitiously than it was intended to be. Mr. Biden asked tough questions about whether there was any intelligence showing that the Taliban posed a threat to American territory. But Mr. Obama also firmly closed the door on any withdrawal. ''I just want to say right now, I want to take off the table that we're leaving Afghanistan,'' he told his advisers.
 Tension with the military had been simmering since the leak of the McChrystal report, which some in the White House took as an attempt to box in the president. The friction intensified on Oct. 1 when the general was asked after a speech in London whether a narrower mission, like the one Mr. Biden proposed, would succeed. ''The short answer is no,'' he said.
 White House officials were furious, and Mr. Gates publicly scolded advisers who did not keep their advice to the president private. The furor rattled General McChrystal, who, unlike General Petraeus, was not a savvy Washington operator. And it stunned others in the military, who were at first ''bewildered by how over the top the reaction was from the White House,'' as one military official put it. 
 It also proved to be what one review participant called a ''head-snapping'' moment of revelation for the military. The president, they suddenly realized, was not simply updating his previous strategy but essentially starting over from scratch.
 The episode underscored the uneasy relationship between the military and a new president who, aides said, was determined not to be as deferential as he believed his predecessor, George W. Bush, was for years in Iraq. And the military needed to adjust to a less experienced but more skeptical commander in chief. ''We'd been chugging along for eight years under an administration that had become very adept at managing war in a certain way,'' said another military official.
 Moreover, Mr. Obama had read ''Lessons in Disaster,'' Gordon M. Goldstein's book on the Vietnam War. The book had become a must read in the West Wing after Mr. Emanuel had dinner over the summer at the house of another deputy national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, and wandered into his library to ask what he should be reading. 
 Among the conclusions that Mr. Donilon and the White House team drew from the book was that both President John F. Kennedy and President Lyndon B. Johnson failed to question the underlying assumption about monolithic Communism and the domino theory -- clearly driving the Obama advisers to rethink the nature of Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
 The Pakistan Question
 While public attention focused on Afghanistan, some of the most intensive discussion focused on the country where Mr. Obama could send no troops -- Pakistan. Pushed in particular by Mrs. Clinton, the president's team explored the links between the Afghan Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban and Al Qaeda, and Mr. Obama told aides that it did not matter how many troops were sent to Afghanistan if Pakistan remained a haven.
 Many of the intelligence reports ordered by the White House during the review dealt with Pakistan's stability and whether its military and intelligence services were now committed to the fight or secretly still supporting Taliban factions. According to two officials, there was a study of the potential vulnerability of Pakistan's nuclear weapons, posing questions about potential insider threats and control of the warheads if the Pakistani government fell. 
 Mr. Obama and his advisers also considered options for stepping up the pursuit of extremists in Pakistan's border areas. He eventually approved a C.I.A. request to expand the areas where remotely piloted aircraft could strike, and other covert action. The trick would be getting Pakistani consent, which still has not been granted.
 On Oct. 9, Mr. Obama and his team reviewed General McChrystal's troop proposals for the first time. Some in the White House were surprised by the numbers, assuming there would be a middle ground between 10,000 and 40,000.
 ''Why wasn't there a 25 number?'' one senior administration official asked in an interview. He then answered his own question: ''It would have been too tempting.'' 
 Mr. Gates and others talked about the limits of the American ability to actually defeat the Taliban; they were an indigenous force in Afghan society, part of the political fabric. This was a view shared by others around the table, including Leon E. Panetta, the director of the C.I.A., who argued that the Taliban could not be defeated as such and so the goal should be to drive wedges between those who could be reconciled with the Afghan government and those who could not be.
 With Mr. Biden leading the skeptics, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen increasingly aligned behind a more robust force. Mrs. Clinton wanted to make sure she was a formidable player in the process. ''She was determined that her briefing books would be just as thick and just as meticulous as those of the Pentagon,'' said one senior adviser. She asked hard questions about Afghan troop training, unafraid of wading into Pentagon territory.
 After a meeting where the Pentagon made a presentation with impressive color-coded maps, Mrs. Clinton returned to the State Department and told her aides, ''We need maps,'' as one recalled. She was overseas during the next meeting on Oct. 14, when aides used her new maps to show civilian efforts but she participated with headphones on from her government plane flying back from Russia.
 Mr. Gates was a seasoned hand at such reviews, having served eight presidents and cycled in and out of the Situation Room since the days when it was served by a battery of fax machines. Like Mrs. Clinton, he was sympathetic to General McChrystal's request, having resolved his initial concern that a buildup would fuel resentment the way the disastrous Soviet occupation of Afghanistan did in the 1980s.
 But Mr. Gates's low-wattage exterior masks a wily inside player, and he knew enough to keep his counsel early in the process to let it play out more first. ''When to speak is important to him; when to signal is important to him,'' said a senior Defense Department official. 
 On Oct. 22, the National Security Council produced what one official called a ''consensus memo,'' much of which originated out of the defense secretary's office, concluding that the United States should focus on diminishing the Taliban insurgency but not destroying it; building up certain critical ministries; and transferring authority to Afghan security forces.
 There was no consensus yet on troop numbers, however, so Mr. Obama called a smaller group of advisers together on Oct. 26 to finally press Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Gates. Mrs. Clinton made it clear that she was comfortable with General McChrystal's request for 40,000 troops or something close to it; Mr. Gates also favored a big force.
 Mr. Obama was leery. He had received a memo the day before from the Office of Management and Budget projecting that General McChrystal's full 40,000-troop request on top of the existing deployment and reconstruction efforts would cost $1 trillion from 2010 to 2020, an adviser said. The president seemed in sticker shock, watching his domestic agenda vanishing in front of him. ''This is a 10-year, trillion-dollar effort and does not match up with our interests,'' he said.
 Still, for the first time, he made it clear that he was ready to send more troops if a strategy could be found to ensure that it was not an endless war. He indicated that the Taliban had to be beaten back. ''What do we need to break their momentum?'' he asked. 
 Four days later, at a meeting with the Joint Chiefs of Staff on Oct. 30, he emphasized the need for speed. ''Why can't I get the troops in faster?'' he asked. If they were going to do this, he concluded, it only made sense to do this quickly, to have impact and keep the war from dragging on forever. ''This is America's war,'' he said. ''But I don't want to make an open-ended commitment.''
 Bridging the Differences
 Now that he had a sense of where Mr. Obama was heading, Mr. Gates began shaping a plan that would bridge the differences. He developed a 30,000-troop option that would give General McChrystal the bulk of his request, reasoning that NATO could make up most of the difference.
 ''If people are having trouble swallowing 40, let's see if we can make this smaller and easier to swallow and still give the commander what he needs,'' a senior Defense official said, summarizing the secretary's thinking.
 The plan, called Option 2A, was presented to the president on Nov. 11. Mr. Obama complained that the bell curve would take 18 months to get all the troops in place. 
 He turned to General Petraeus and asked him how long it took to get the so-called surge troops he commanded in Iraq in 2007. That was six months.
 ''What I'm looking for is a surge,'' Mr. Obama said. ''This has to be a surge.''
 That represented a contrast from when Mr. Obama, as a presidential candidate, staunchly opposed President Bush's buildup in Iraq. But unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. Obama wanted from the start to speed up a withdrawal as well. The military was told to come up with a plan to send troops quickly and then begin bringing them home quickly.
 And in another twist, Mr. Obama, who campaigned as an apostle of transparency and had been announcing each Situation Room meeting publicly and even releasing pictures, was livid that details of the discussions were leaking out.
 ''What I'm not going to tolerate is you talking to the press outside of this room,'' he scolded his advisers. ''It's a disservice to the process, to the country and to the men and women of the military.''
 His advisers sat in uncomfortable silence. That very afternoon, someone leaked word of a cable sent by Ambassador Eikenberry from Kabul expressing reservations about a large buildup of forces as long as the Karzai government remained unreformed. At one of their meetings, General Petraeus had told Mr. Obama to think of elements of the Karzai government like ''a crime syndicate.'' Ambassador Eikenberry was suggesting, in effect, that America could not get in bed with the mob.
 The leak of Ambassador Eikenberry's Nov. 6 cable stirred another storm within the administration because the cable had been requested by the White House. The National Security Council had told the ambassador to put his views in writing. But someone else then passed word of the cable to reporters in what some in the process took to be a calculated attempt to head off a big troop buildup.
 The cable stunned some in the military. The reaction at the Pentagon, said one official, was ''Whiskey Tango Foxtrot'' -- military slang for an expression of shock. Among the officers caught off guard were General McChrystal and his staff, for whom the cable was ''a complete surprise,'' said another official, even though the commander and the ambassador meet three times a week. 
 A Presidential Order
 By this point, the idea of some sort of time frame was taking on momentum. Mrs. Clinton talked to Mr. Karzai before the Afghan leader's inauguration to a second term. She suggested that he use his speech to outline a schedule for taking over security of the country.
 Mr. Karzai did just that, declaring that Afghan forces directed by Kabul would take charge of securing population centers in three years and the whole country in five. His pronouncement, orchestrated partly by Mrs. Clinton and diplomats in Kabul, provided a predicate for Mr. Obama to set out his own time frame.
 The president gathered his team in the Situation Room at 8:15 p.m. on Nov. 23, the unusual nighttime hour adding to what one participant called a momentous wartime feeling. The room was strewn with coffee cups and soda cans. 
 Mr. Obama presented a revised version of Option 2A, this one titled ''Max Leverage,'' pushing 30,000 troops into Afghanistan by mid-2010 and beginning to pull them out by July 2011. Admiral Mullen came up with the date at the direction of Mr. Obama, despite some misgivings from the Pentagon about setting a time frame for a withdrawal. The date was two years from the arrival of the first reinforcements Mr. Obama sent shortly after taking office. Mr. Biden had written a memo before the meeting talking about the need for ''proof of concept'' -- in other words, two years ought to be enough for extra troops to demonstrate whether a buildup would work.
 The president went around the room asking for opinions. Mr. Biden again expressed skepticism, even at this late hour when the tide had turned against him in terms of the troop number. But he had succeeded in narrowing the scope of the mission to protect population centers and setting the date to begin withdrawal. Others around the table concurred with the plan. Mr. Obama spoke last, but still somewhat elliptically. Some advisers said they walked out into the night after 10 p.m., uncertain whether the president had actually endorsed the Max Leverage option or was just testing for reaction. 
 Two days later, Mr. Obama met with Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker and a critic of the Afghan war. The president outlined his plans for the buildup without disclosing specific numbers. Ms. Pelosi was unenthusiastic and pointedly told the president that he could not rely on Democrats alone to pass financing for the war. 
 The White House had spent little time courting Congress to this point. Even though it would need Republican support, the White House had made no overtures to the party leaders.
 But there was back-channel contact. Mr. Emanuel was talking with Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who urged him to settle on a troop number ''that began with 3'' to win Republican support. ''I said as long as the generals are O.K. and there is a meaningful number, you will be O.K.,'' Mr. Graham recalled.
 The day after Thanksgiving, Mr. Obama huddled with aides from 10:30 a.m. to 9:15 p.m. refining parameters for the plan and mapping out his announcement. He told his speechwriter, Ben Rhodes, that he wanted to directly rebut the comparison with Vietnam. 
 On the following Sunday, Nov. 29, he summoned his national security team to the Oval Office. He had made his decision. He would send 30,000 troops as quickly as possible, then begin the withdrawal in July 2011. In deference to Mr. Gates's concerns, the pace and endpoint of the withdrawal would be determined by conditions at the time.
 ''I'm not asking you to change what you believe,'' the president told his advisers. ''But if you do not agree with me, say so now.'' There was a pause and no one said anything.
 ''Tell me now,'' he repeated.
 Mr. Biden asked only if this constituted a presidential order. Mr. Gates and others signaled agreement.
 ''Fully support, sir,'' Admiral Mullen said.
 ''Ditto,'' General Petraeus said.
 Mr. Obama then went to the Situation Room to call General McChrystal and Ambassador Eikenberry. The president made it clear that in the next assessment in December 2010 he would not contemplate more troops. ''It will only be about the flexibility in how we draw down, not if we draw down,'' he said.
 Two days later, Mr. Obama flew to West Point to give his speech. After three months of agonizing review, he seemed surprisingly serene. ''He was,'' said one adviser, ''totally at peace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Veterans Day, President Obama visited a section of Arlington National Cemetery reserved for service members killed in Iraq and Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
American soldiers conducted a patrol in April in the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan, a remote area near Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE)
American officials have criticized the Afghan government, which is led by President Hamid Karzai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A29) CHARTS: The Road to West Point: Obama's Decision on Afghanistan: After approving what would be the first of 21,000 additional troops for Afghanistan in February, President Obama began to assemble his team for national security. In April, he appointed Lt. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry, a former top military commander in Afghanistan, as ambassador, and in May, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who had run all special operations in Iraq, became the top American commander in Afghanistan. Discussions began in earnest in August, after the election in Afghanistan. (A28-A29)
 The Players: The National Security Group on Afghanistan and Pakistan: On Sept. 13, President Obama held the first in a series of national security meetings with his team on Afghanistan and Pakistan, an influential group of military and civilian advisers. Below, officials at one of the 10 meetings that were held before Mr. Obama's Dec. 1 announcement that he would increase troop levels in Afghanistan. (A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (78%); CEMETERIES (77%); CASE STUDIES (60%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



178 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 BOLIVIA'S PRESIDENT POISED FOR A NEW VICTORY
 President Evo Morales is expected to be re-elected Sunday in Bolivia. He is perhaps the nation's strongest leader in decades. But that dominance has earned him some unexpected rivals. Page 6 
 ITALY VERDICT STIRS THE U.S.
 Tensions ran high after an American college student, Amanda Knox, was found guilty in Italy of murdering her housemate. The conviction seemed to heighten conflicting public opinions in the United States and Italy. page 6 
 ITALIANS PROTEST BERLUSCONI 
 Tens of thousands of people gathered in Rome to protest Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who is on trial on corruption charges. Many complained that after years in power, Mr. Berlusconi had done little to better the country. page 20 
 IRAN MAY NOT LEAVE TREATY
 Urging moderation after a week of harsh rhetoric over Iran's nuclear program, the head of the country's nuclear agency, Ali Akbar Salehi, said Iran would not seek to pull out of the international Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. page 22 
 Heritage Aids Mayor in Romania 14
 Gunmen Kill 5 Soldiers in Darfur 22 
 National
 SENATE VOTE CLEARS WAY FOR HOME HEALTH CARE CUTS
 Senators working on legislation to overhaul the nation's health care system voted 53 to 41 against a Republican effort to block cutbacks in Medicare payments to home health agencies. Page 31
 BATTLEFIELDS TO CLASSROOMS
 Troops to Teachers has helped more than 12,000 service members transition into careers in the classroom. A bipartisan group in Congress is hoping to expand the program to allow more veterans to sign up. Page 36
 NEW GRADUATE ENTRANCE TEST
 After two false starts, the Graduate Record Exam, the graduate school entrance test administered by the Educational Testing Service, will be revamped and slightly lengthened in 2011 and graded on a new scale of 130 to 170. Page 36
 The Other Vancouver 27
 Metropolitan
 THE REAL-LIFE TALE
 Of a Storybook Childhood
 While some say they grew up with books, an actress is speaking literally: Her father was a library custodian, a job that included living in Manhattan libraries. Page 1
 Windows With Holiday Cheer 1
 Sunday Business
 IS MONEY TAINTING
 The Plasma Supply?
 Plasma centers run by pharmaceutical companies transform donated plasma into life-saving but expensive medicines. But debate has stirred over the fact that the $12 billion industry depends mostly on the blood of people hard up for cash. Page 1 
 A NEXT STEP FOR TEXTBOOKS
 Newspapers and books have made the transition from paper to pixel with relative ease. Not so for textbooks, which have stumbled with their mix of color illustrations or Web-based supplements. But new two-screen devices like the eDGe could bridge this gap. Page 4 
 FROM BROWSING INTO BUYING
 By using data to greatly improve the efficiency of marketing, the Internet business Next Jump may represent the future of online commerce and could emerge as a counterweight to Amazon, the giant Web merchant. Even if it eventually stumbles, Next Jump seems like a company to watch, and to consider. Page 4 
 MANAGING THAT FREE TIME
 If there is one thing that most unemployed job seekers have in abundance, it is time. And yet many of them misuse it. Experts advise treating the hunt as a job. Page 11
 Sports
 FOR THE COWBOYS, 
 A Cold Front Looms
 Years of late-season failings have become as grating as a loop of Christmas music at the mall for the Cowboys. Though now at 8-3, with a one-game lead in the National Football Conference East, Dallas is preparing for a brutal stretch that begins with the Giants. Page 5 
 Arts & Leisure
 THE CHALLENGE AND TRIUMPH
 In Playing a Living Legend
 Portraying Nelson Mandela has, in the past, been difficult. Perhaps it is the knowledge of inevitable comparison to the real, living Mandela. But, Bill Keller writes, Morgan Freeman's performance in ''Invictus'' is uncanny, and less an impersonation than an incarnation. Page 1 
 BETWEEN FILM AND THEATER
 Among its many playful and delicious effects, Bruce Weber writes of the play ''Brief Encounter,'' is the constant effort to blur the line between stage and screen. Page 6 
 HOW OFFENSIVE IS A PUPPET?
 Is ''The Jeff Dunham Show,'' which just had its premier on Comedy Central, offensive? Mr. Dunham, a ventriloquist, and his puppets are more Punch and Judy than Lamb Chop. A review by Neil Genzlinger. Page 32 
 Travel
 PLANNING A CAMPING TRIP
 In the Caribbean Islands
 Camping is not the first thing travelers think of when planning a vacation to the Caribbean. It's also not easy, since there are few camping areas. But on St. John, in the Virgin Islands, one can camp in the national park, which takes up two-thirds of the total land mass. Page 1 
 NOT QUITE FANTASY ISLAND
 What to do when crime comes to paradise? Though still rare, occurences of violent crime are rising in the Caribbean. Just because you are on vacation, don't let your guard down completely. Page 4 
 Book Review
 A CULTURE CRITIC TELLS THE LIFE STORY OF SATCHMO
 Despite his contributions to American culture, there are only a few thorough biographies of Louis Armstrong. Enter the chief culture critic of Commentary and drama critic for The Wall Street Journal with ''Satchmo: The Wonderful World and Art of Louis Armstrong.'' Page 10 
 WHAT ABOUT THAT LION?
 The silent understanding between predator and prey, and the lack of it in society, are central themes to Graeme Gibson's bestiary ''The Bedside Book of Beasts: A Wildlife Miscellany.'' Page 59 
 Magazine
 IT'S A TEXAS GOVERNOR THING
 How an unpopular Republican governor is fending off a primary challenge from a popular Republican senator who has the key players of the Bush administration behind her. Page 30 
 THE HOSTAGE BUSINESS
 Kidnapping in the developing world is a grim byproduct of globalization, and a strange and shadowy ransom industry has grown to protect and retrieve the victims. But are all the consultants and insurers really just part of the problem? Page 44 
 Editorial
 SENATE HEALTH CARE FOLLIES
 The first week of debate on the Senate's health care bill was a depressing mix of foolish posturing by members of both parties and blatant obstructionism by Republicans. Week In Review, Page 9 
 CLIMATE-CHANGE E-MAIL
 The theft of e-mail messages and files from computer servers at a leading British climate research center has been a political windfall for climate-change skeptics. Week In Review, Page 9 
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 President Obama's speech on Afghanistan may have been thoughtful and mature, but it failed both as policy and rhetoric. Week In Review, Page 10 
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Some thoughts on how to reduce the chances that the troop buildup in Afghanistan will end badly. Week In Review, Page 10 
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Happily ever interruptus for a prince and a princess. Week In Review, Page 11 
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Some readers accused The Times of mishandling news of hacked e-mail messages about global warming. Week In Review, Page 10 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); MURDER (76%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); HOME HEALTH CARE (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); BLOOD DONATIONS (65%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); BLOOD BANKS (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); MEDICARE (51%)

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BOLIVIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (91%); SUDAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



179 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4957 words

HEADLINE: It's Just a Texas-Governor Thing

BYLINE: By ROBERT DRAPER. 
Robert Draper is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of ''Dead Certain: The Presidency of George W. Bush.''

 BODY:
''Now I think you're on to a better subject,'' declared Gov. Rick Perry aboard a private plane as the topic turned to Texas. With relish, the longest-serving governor in the state's history recounted its uninhabitable past. ''I think it was Sheridan that said, 'If I owned hell and Texas, I would rent out Texas and live in hell.' I mean, this was a really hard place. You look at the men that founded it -- the Bowies and the Travises, even Sam Houston, in my opinion possibly the greatest leader this country's ever developed. . . . I don't think Texas becomes an urbany, really highly cultured place until like the last decade.'' 
 Nasty storm winds slapped the plane along its journey south to Laredo. Perry, a former Air Force pilot with the rugged veneer of a ''Bonanza'' cast member, sat unperturbed with a plastic bag full of popcorn in his lap and rhapsodized further about the revered Republic of Texas's president. ''Houston became a Christian late in life because of his wife,'' he said. ''He was running for the presidency in 1860, and she talked him out of it. She thought he would lose his mortal soul if he ran for the presidency. He was highly respected in the North -- an anti-slave Southerner. There are those that think he would've won the presidency of the United States and we probably would not have had a civil war. Interesting.'' 
 The governor was grinning broadly. ''Then we wouldn't have had Abe Lincoln,'' I pointed out.
 Perry contemplated this for barely a second before replying, ''Maybe Sam Houston would've been better.''
 He sat back and munched on his popcorn, clearly pleased to have said something that might provoke incredulity somewhere. In the past 12 months, Perry has endorsed ''Choose Life'' license plates as an option for Texans, hinted that his state might do well to secede from the Union, replaced commissioners who were about to review whether he allowed the execution of an innocent man and charged that President Barack Obama is ''hellbent on taking America toward a socialist country.'' And today, in his ostrich-skin cowboy boots with popcorn tumbling down his shirt while talking up Sam Houston and Christianity and oozing sufficient levels of testosterone to detonate a Geiger counter, Rick Perry was doing a fine impression of George W. Bush on steroids. But he was also revealing their acute differences. That crack about losing your soul by running for the presidency was one of Perry's incessant stabs at all-corrupting Washington -- the kind of thing a member of the Bush political dynasty would never say. More revealing, though, was his passing suggestion that Texas had acquired its sophistication only in the last decade, that is, during Perry's tenure as governor (which began when the lieutenant governor ascended to complete Bush's unexpired term in December 2000). This, of course, is not only an audacious claim but also an implicit swipe at his predecessor.
 Perry's opponent in the Republican gubernatorial primary on March 2, 2010, as he seeks a record third full term, isn't Bush, obviously, but rather the state's senior U.S. senator, Kay Bailey Hutchison. Nonetheless, as the ex-president spends his retirement giving speeches and scribbling his now-nearly-completed memoirs in Dallas, his ghost hovers over the Texas governor's race in ways that aren't immediately obvious. The George W. Bush who was governor was a consummate ''uniter-not-a-divider,'' and there remain many Texans who fondly recall that model and blame Perry -- a big-business booster and social conservative whom Paul Burka, the respected Texas Monthly political commentator, recently described as being ''more about politics and ideology than governing'' -- for its disappearance. The temperamental basis of Hutchison's campaign is that, unlike her ''arrogant'' opponent, she will restore comity to governance and thereby make the ever-shrinking Republican Party more attractive to moderates. 
 By contrast, the Bush who was president has been seen as divisive, and not just by Democrats. Indeed, of late his harshest critics have come from hard-core conservatives who charge that Bush's federal activism in education, his unbalanced budgets and (most egregiously) his sponsorship of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) bailout paved the runaway path down which the free-spending Democrats now gallop. While campaigning on behalf of the presidential candidate Rudolph W. Giuliani in Iowa two years ago, Perry himself volunteered that Bush ''has never, ever been a fiscal conservative.'' Today, Bushworld veterans like Karl Rove, Karen Hughes and Margaret Spellings are Hutchison supporters. Most of them happen to be personally close to the senator. But another factor, acknowledges one adviser to the ex-president, is ''vindictiveness due to the way he'' -- Perry -- ''behaved toward Bush.'' 
 Perry's chief strategist, Dave Carney, accounts for the dearth of support among Bush alumni differently. ''They're not conservatives,'' he said. ''They're country-club Republicans.'' When I asked if he really believed Rove was a ''country-club Republican,'' Carney replied: ''Yeah, absolutely. It would be impossible to deny that there are Reagan Republicans and there are Bush Republicans.'' To the Perryites, then, the future of the G.O.P. -- in Texas and beyond, next March and thereafter -- requires buying into Carney's assertion that yesteryear's ''Reagan Republicans'' and today's ''movement conservatives'' are one and the same. 
 The Texas Republican gubernatorial primary is thus shaping up to be a public airing of that national party's internal discontents. The issues and cultural references in the race are unmistakably Texan. But the contest's central question -- whether a highly popular general-election Republican (Hutchison) can defeat a less-popular Republican (Perry) who nonetheless knows how to excite conservative primary voters -- goes to the heart of the party's overall vitality. In an effort to reclaim Reagan's scepter, both campaigns are aggressively ignoring the Gipper's 11th Commandment to not speak ill of fellow Republicans. The mounting ugliness between ''Slick Rick'' and ''Kay Bailout'' seems destined to turn off independent voters because, as the veteran political handicapper Charlie Cook observes: ''in a primary, shrillness matters. It's a race to the fringe.'' 
 Republicans gamely offer the upside, as Democrats did last year while Hillary Clinton was heaving the kitchen sink at Obama. Disagreement? Healthful! Extended brawl? Great for turnout! Until recently, the Republicans could play down the damage from infighting by assuming that whoever prevailed would most likely face a weak Democratic candidate, Tom Schieffer, in the general election. But two weeks ago, Schieffer bowed out of the race. The mayor of Houston, Bill White, who has a large war chest for a campaign for the Senate, then announced he would consider switching races to run for governor. 
 It's bad enough that a sitting governor not beset by scandal is about to be embroiled in a costly (perhaps as much as $50 million) intraparty contest before a potentially tough general election. But in 2010, as the party writ large struggles to coalesce around a singular leader and message, the spectacle of two well-known Republicans savaging each other is a midterm gift to the Democratic National Committee. The pain is already being felt in Texas. Each candidate lays a claim to Texas royalty (Perry's great-grandfather served in the Texas House in 1892, while Hutchison's great-great-grandfather was among the 54 men who signed the Texas Declaration of Independence in 1836). Each is a Karl Rove protege. Back in 1990, when each first ascended to statewide office (he as agriculture commissioner, she as treasurer), the two fresh-faced Republicans campaigned together and were seen as the party's twin stars. Today they're each other's worst enemy. 
 ''I'm in it to save our party,'' Kay Bailey Hutchison told me one morning this past October, ''because I was there from the beginning, when it wasn't cool to be a Republican.''
 ''Are you saying you made it cool to be a Republican?'' I ventured jokingly. 
 The senator's campaign manager, Terry Sullivan, laughed, but she did not. Nor did she smile. ''I'm saying he wasn't there in the beginning,'' she stated, referring to Perry's having switched parties in 1989. ''He's a Republican of convenience. I'm a Republican of conviction.''
 Compared with that of her backslapping opponent, Hutchison's levity deficit is notable. When she was state treasurer in the early '90s, her employees complained that she was abusive, and today Matt Mackowiak, who resigned last April as the senator's press secretary, admits that she can be ''somewhat needy and demanding.'' Then again, the assorted cruelties perpetrated against their staff members by alpha-male Texas officeholders like Lyndon Johnson and former Lieut. Gov. Bob Bullock hardly detract from their legendary status. That Hutchison -- who has written two books about pioneering American women -- may come off as a tightly wound survivor in a male-dominated profession seems a relatively benign infraction, if one that the Perry camp hopes will metastasize over time. She is, as Sullivan puts it, ''a driven lady'': University of Texas cheerleader and law-school graduate; TV reporter; bank vice president; state legislator and treasurer; and in 1993 the first Texas woman to be elected to the U.S. Senate. To this day, Hutchison remains one of the state's most popular figures: in February, Public Policy Polling found that 76 percent of Texas Republican primary voters viewed her favorably. ''Though she scores just as high as Perry on the conservative voting chart, Hutchison has softer edges,'' says Bruce Buchanan, a professor of government at the University of Texas. ''Like Bush, she comes off as the kinder-gentler practitioner of bipartisanship.''
 Exactly how different Texas would look under Hutchison is unclear. Though her refusal to repudiate Roe v. Wade has upset some conservatives, Hutchison, like Perry, gets high ratings from pro-life and pro-gun groups, and she has consistently talked tough on immigration issues. ''I'm not sure why she's running for governor,'' says Joe Allbaugh, the former FEMA director and sole prominent Bush affiliate to be backing Perry, though he refers to Hutchison as a friend. ''I mean, is she running for better education? Prison reform? Tort reform? The military? What is it? She's yet to articulate or crystallize it, and it's gotten late in the game.'' 
 Playing into the allegation that Perry has rewarded his allies with appointments and lucrative contracts, the candidate tells supporters that it's time ''to take back Texas'' from the ''Austin insiders and lobbyists.'' Similar rallying cries might have helped Sarah Palin win the Alaska governorship, but they don't sound especially convincing coming from Hutchison, whose strengths are decidedly senatorial. At her best, she projects levelheadedness, caution and knowledge of the world outside Texas. Her love for her native state has been chiefly expressed through the insider's game of appropriations. Dick Armey, the former House majority leader and a Hutchison supporter, told me that she once got in his face over refusing to protect a Texas military base from closing, telling Armey, ''You've got to love Texas more than this!''
 Parochial sentiments notwithstanding, Hutchison told me unequivocally that her contest with Perry has national implications for the Republican Party. ''If we don't see the losses in the House and Senate as meaning that we need to retool our party and our message and our governing strategy, then we're going to keep losing,'' she said that October morning as we flew from Dallas to Waco on a campaign-chartered plane. Nonetheless, as she spent that day attending four different events across the state to trumpet her endorsement by the Texas Farm Bureau, Hutchison's calibrations seemed less about ''retooling'' and more about soothing the base of conservative voters. Determined not to resemble a buttoned-up Washingtonian, Hutchison instead went the ''Oklahoma!'' route, garbing herself in a denim blouse, flouncy skirt and monogrammed cowgirl boots to blend in with the studiously quaint backdrops of hay and tractors and quarter horses. At every stop, she vowed to defeat the ''government takeover of our health care system.'' She spoke expansively about low taxes and private property rights but did not bring up topics likely to appeal to swing voters like the environment or alternative energy sources. (Perry, whose base credentials are unassailable, discussed both during the day I spent with him.) 
 Hutchison does not possess Perry's colorful bombast, but she is a poised campaigner who does not commit unforced errors. That said, it has been 19 years since she has faced serious opposition, and the evidence would suggest that Perry -- ''a guy that's got dirt under his fingernails,'' says Charlie Cook, ''who'll say or do anything it takes to win'' -- has gotten into her head. She mentioned to me that a trespasser had recently photographed her McLean, Va., residence (which she has since sold), and that she imagined the images would soon appear in a Perry campaign ad as proof of her Beltway rootedness. When her campaign announced that Dick Cheney would be endorsing the senator (hardly a move likely to endear Hutchison to independents), Perry's spokesman, Mark Miner, wasted no time replying, ''The Washington establishment likes to stick together.'' 
 ''Of course we're not Washington!'' Hutchison insisted to me. ''I've spent the same amount of time at home'' -- in Dallas -- ''as I do in Washington. And unlike some senators, I go out in the communities. I'm a grass-roots person, and I've always been a grass-roots person!''
 For some time, Hutchison has made no secret of her eagerness to return to Texas. In 2005, she made it clear that she wished to challenge Perry for the governorship. At Perry's behest, several prominent Republicans persuaded her that to do so would be bad for the party. According to two individuals with knowledge of the conversations, Perry or a surrogate called several G.O.P. leaders, including Karl Rove at the White House, and suggested that 2010 would be ''her turn.'' 
 Politicians have been known to change their minds about such matters -- to which Hutchison can herself attest, having run for a third senatorial term in 2006 after having promised to serve only two. And so Perry's announcement in April 2008 that he would run yet again did not divert her from the race. That same month, she hosted a dinner for the Texas Federation of Republican Women on Capitol Hill. One woman present, Kathy Jones, says that she asked Hutchison, ''Why would you even consider this, when we need you so badly in Washington?''
 According to Jones, Kay Bailey Hutchison's tart reply was, ''Texas deserves the best.''
 1961, a New Yorker writer named John Bainbridge, who had left his home in Bronxville, N.Y., for a nine-month stay in Texas, channeled Alexis de Tocqueville in ''The Super-Americans.'' Today a largely overlooked classic, the book argued that the Lone Star State was like America except more so: more optimistic, more preoccupied with bigness, more obsessed with self-invention. For those of us raised in the shadows of the Astrodome, Bainbridge's references to newly enriched oilmen trading in their Cadillacs once the ashtrays require emptying are blush-inducing but hardly unfamiliar. And in any event, ''The Super-Americans,'' like Tocqueville's ''Democracy in America'' 126 years before it, ultimately acquits its subject, proclaiming Texas to be ''the land of the second chance, the last outpost of individuality, the stage upon which the American Drama, in all its wild extremes, is being performed with eloquence and panache, as if for the first time.''
 Today's Super-America looks a bit different. Its Hispanic population is both the state's fastest-growing and its most impoverished. Texas' high-school graduation rate is among the nation's lowest, and its percentage of residents who lack health insurance is the highest. And as The Austin American-Statesman recently reported, ''More government money has been spent on the cause of sexual abstinence in Texas than any other state, but it still has the third-highest teen birth rate in the country and the highest percentage of teen mothers giving birth more than once.'' 
 Still, the Texas proclivity for what Tocqueville termed America's ''irritable patriotism'' continues to thrive. Though any election is invariably a referendum on the incumbent, criticizing Rick Perry's performance in a way that can be construed as speaking negatively of Texas is no way for Hutchison to earn votes. Unsurprisingly, then, a favorite Perry campaign tactic has been to frame the senator's harsh rhetoric as tantamount to ''tearing down Texas'' or ''insulting to countless Republicans who have worked tirelessly to make our state the envy of the nation.''
 Perry is himself a gifted boaster. This past September in Washington, he met with a dozen or so Beltway journalists at the offices of the American Gas Association so that -- as he put it to us -- ''you can kind of hear straight from this horse's mouth about what's going on in the State of Texas.'' The governor then lovingly unspooled his litany: ''Texas is the No. 1 exporting state in the nation. We're the state that is the destination when people move from one state to another, for the fourth year in a row. More Fortune 500 companies call Texas home than any other state. In 2008 we created more jobs than the other 49 states combined.'' To some ears, Rick Perry is insinuating that Texas -- long a right-to-work state with no state income tax and a limitless supply of semiskilled labor from neighboring Mexico -- has become a business-friendly state only under his administration . . . which, even by Texas standards, would be a boast for the ages.
 Like George W. Bush before him, Perry has declared that being governor of Texas is the best job there is. Never one to be confused with a workaholic -- until recently, says a friend, Perry ''traveled a long ways on some good looks'' -- the task of being a constitutionally weak chief executive who asserts his authority through appointments and speeches seems to suit him. Even so, Perry's years as governor of a conservative state have not been accompanied by high approval ratings. His plan to build a network of toll roads met with loud resistance from landowners and was subsequently scuttled. Similarly, the State Legislature turned back the governor's executive order in 2007 mandating that all teenage girls be vaccinated for a virus that can cause cervical cancer. In both cases, critics charged that the initiatives were designed to reward lobbyists who were tight with Perry. As of July, Perry's statewide approval rating stood at 42 -- and this was well after Perry had titillated the base in April by telling a reporter that Texas was ''able to leave'' the Union and that ''if Washington continues to thumb their nose at the American people, who knows what may come of that?'' 
 Having blown the dog whistle that one time, Perry has been shrewd enough to leave it at that, for the most part. (When one of the Washington journalists asked him if Texas did in fact have the right to secede, the governor replied: ''I will leave that to a constitutional lawyer to decide. You could take Laurence Tribe and Lino Graglia, and you would probably get different answers.'' Later I called Graglia, a conservative scholar, who stated, ''No, I don't think there's any basis to that claim.'' The left-leaning Tribe concurred when I contacted him, adding, ''Governor Perry will have to find some other foil for his outlandish view.'') His mantra since that Secession Moment has been the 10th Amendment of the United States Constitution. Ratified in 1791 as one of the Bill of Rights, it states succinctly that ''the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.'' 
 To Perry, the matter of states' rights -- for generations a tool used by previous Southern governors to institutionalize injustices against African-Americans -- has gained new salience with the advent of trillion-dollar deficits and increasing federal intervention into the private sector. But when I asked him why he was not vocal during the Bush years of ballooning budgets and federal activism, he grinned sheepishly and replied, ''A timid soul, is all I can say.'' He added, with not much conviction: ''I did talk about it. I may not have gotten quite the -- I talked to people about it.''
 ''You talked to friends about it,'' I suggested. ''You talked to aides about it.''
 ''Look, although the Republicans spent too much money, they were pikers compared to this administration and this Congress,'' the governor said, now feeling his oats again. ''So I think trying to paint all these guys -- Bush, the Republicans, and Pelosi, Reid and Obama in the same -- that's like trying to compare a third-grade artist with Michelangelo. . . . From my perspective, it was a more manageable problem. Starting in September of '08, I started seeing an unmanageable problem.''
 Perry was referring to the TARP bailout. ''What would have been your remedy, then?'' I asked.
 He shrugged. ''What was our remedy then is still the remedy,'' he said. ''Cut the spending, cut the taxes.''
 Perry didn't make clear how a little ad hoc belt-tightening on the part of Congress would have allayed a collapse of the financial markets. He seemed, instead, skeptical that such a collapse had been imminent. At his San Antonio event, I watched him mockingly recall ''the cries that 'the sky is falling, the sky is falling -- you have to do something, and if you don't do something, the markets are going to crash and the economic world as we know it is going to vaporize into thin air.' '' Most economists might take issue with the governor's sentiment. Then again, economists are unlikely to decide the outcome of the Texas primary. Hutchison's position -- that she voted for that first recovery bill but is now ''very disappointed in TARP'' and ''if I'd known then what I know now, I probably wouldn't have'' voted for it -- may be intellectually honest but also, as a sound bite, tortuously Kerry-esque.
 ''I guarantee you our message is much simpler and more believable -- hers is a mess,'' Dave Carney told me. Yet Perry has displayed a fighter pilot's maneuverability during this election cycle. Though a vocal a critic of Obama's financial recovery package, the Texas governor readily accepted all but a small fraction of the relief money offered to his state. (''It's our money -- we sent it up there,'' Perry told me.) One October evening I listened to Perry the states' rights champion tell the Justice Foundation, a Texas organization that promotes the rights of the unborn, that ''as a pro-life Texan, I'd like to see our national laws reflect our shared priorities.'' In discussing his earlier days as a Democrat, Perry told me that he returned home from the 1978 state Democratic convention and observed to his father: ''Dad, those guys at the convention aren't like you and me. They are very liberal.'' Fully 10 years later, however, Perry served as state co-chairman for the Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore. He has been quick to dismiss Hutchison's blue-ribbon conservative supporters -- Cheney, Armey, Phil Gramm -- as zombies of the Beltway, telling me: ''I'm saying everybody that's been out there is tarred. Everybody.'' This, however, did not compel Perry to refuse the endorsement of the Mississippi governor, Haley Barbour, who spent a decade as one of Washington's pre-eminent lobbyists.
 Agile politician that he is, Perry possesses a nearly unerring sense of what he can get away with. On Sept. 30, he replaced three members of the Forensic Science Commission, a state board that was just about to revisit the case of Cameron Todd Willingham, who was convicted of killing his three children in an arson blaze but maintained his innocence all the way up to his state execution in 2004. The move had the effect of slowing the review process, but the governor told me two days later, ''All I did was follow normal, routine replacement of people'' whose terms had expired. Editorial boards across the state have shown extreme skepticism of his explanation. When I contacted John Bradley, the law-and-order Republican whom Perry named as the F.S.C.'s new commissioner (and someone I have known casually for more than three decades), I asked him if he had seen any evidence that Perry was concerned about appearances of a rigged commission. ''No, I haven't,'' Bradley said. 
 Still and all, the governor has reason to be unworried: according to a Sam Houston State University poll taken in 2007, 74 percent of Texans (including Kay Bailey Hutchison) support the death penalty, and the face of Willingham is not likely to appear in any Hutchison campaign ads.
 On his airplane, I asked Rick Perry if he was taking a few tough swings at Kay Bailey Hutchison in hopes of scaring her out of the race. Perry grinned and replied, ''Those are your words, by the way.''
 ''Well, it's my question,'' I said.
 Laughing, the governor said, ''It is a question that holds some truth.''
 But just as Texas pride would constrain Hutchison from being too critical of the state's woes, so, too, would Texas chivalry dictate that Perry pull his punches. After all, in the state's 1990 election, the Republican candidate and West Texas rancher Clayton Williams may have cost himself the governorship by refusing to shake Ann Richards's hand and by vowing to ''head her and hoof her and drag her through the dirt.''
 Hutchison, for her part, acknowledges that her popularity is somewhat ephemeral. ''When it comes to specifics, I haven't had one thing that resonates with a whole focus group,'' she told me, which opens her up to being defined by the Perry campaign. Thus far, however, the Hutchison campaign's greatest injuries have been self-inflicted. After an impressive kickoff at the beginning of the year, her candidacy all but disappeared. Hutchison spent the past several months dithering over when to quit her Senate seat to campaign full time until finally deciding in November not to quit at all, by which time one poll had her 11 points behind Perry. She recently explained to me that ''I'm going to be a player'' in writing conservative amendments to the Democratic health care legislation -- that ''it would hurt me if people thought I was quitting when the most important issue of my entire Senate term comes out.'' When I suggested that remaining as senator might lead voters to think that she's hedging her bets, Hutchison replied: ''Well, I hope not. I hope that what they will see is that I'm making the decision about what's best for Texas, even at a huge disadvantage to my political success.'' 
 But is Hutchison's candidacy, and the angst it inflicts on the party, ''best for Texas''? A similar question could be asked of Rick Perry: What unfinished business necessitated his going back on his promise and running for a third full term? The answer may have something to do with Perry's ambitions, and with the fact that big-state governors tend to find their way onto a national stage. When I suggested to the governor that his anyone-who-crosses-the-Potomac-is-tainted rhetoric would result in derision should he ever run for a job in Washington, he assured me, ''You won't see me there.'' But a prominent national Republican who knows Perry well asserts that Perry campaigned for Giuliani in hopes of becoming the latter's vice-presidential choice. And a politically connected friend of Perry's says: ''My belief is that if he's elected governor, he will immediately begin the campaign for president. Don't get me wrong -- he doesn't expect to be president. But he will be an attractive candidate to be on the ticket with somebody because he's the Texas governor and he's got a great financial base and is a proven winner.''
 A more vexing puzzle is whether either candidate offers a winning road map for the state's Republican Party. Four years ago, Texas joined Hawaii, New Mexico and California as ''majority-minority states,'' with 50.2 percent of its 22.5 million residents belonging to minority groups. Today, 30 percent of all Texans speak Spanish at home. Though Perry has appointed a Latina to the Texas Supreme Court and Hutchison expressed to me her concern that ''we have not done enough to bring Hispanics in who have the same basic values that Republicans do,'' neither candidate spoke directly about Hispanic issues when I followed each of them. When I observed to one of Bush's top advisers that the candidates seemed to be ignoring the state's changing demographics while instead targeting the G.O.P. base, the response was one of palpable disgust: ''Amazing, isn't it? And the Hispanic vote is gettable -- that's the frustrating thing about it. Perry will probably benefit by that strategy in the short term. But I think the long-term consequences are stark.''
 Dick Armey is among the handful of Texas Republicans who see little harm in next March's contest. ''When I first came to Texas in 1967,'' he told me, ''the only race you had was primaries between Democrats. They managed to cope with it emotionally.'' Still, the question that awaits an answer is not whether the Texas G.O.P. will emerge from next March's alley fight with a smile on its face, but whether it will be any wiser for the experience. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Perry is painting himself as the authentic, don't-mess-with-Texas conservative. (pg.MM31)
 Hutchison has said that she wants to finish her political career in Texas, and that she will make the Republican Party more appealing to moderates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN WINTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); AIR FORCES (78%); HISTORY (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); SLAVERY (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); RELIGION (66%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



180 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY CRITIC; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Through the Looking Glass: Holiday Feasts for the Eyes

BYLINE: By ARIEL KAMINER. 
E-mail: citycritic@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Lines of happy children, their cheeks ruddy from cold and excitement, waiting to see a department store's holiday windows. It seems like an image from a bygone era, doesn't it? The family would then step inside and buy armloads of gifts at full price, sending the store's profits skyward. The shopgirls would all get nice holiday bonuses. The board of directors would all get additions on their mortgage-free summer homes. And just for good measure, someone would take out 20 full-page ads in an earnestly well-meaning daily newspaper.
 Those were good times. Good, imaginary times. And they're open again for visitors. Because whatever might have happened to the economy in the past 12 months, the big department stores still go all out for holiday windows as December dawns. 
 If one store in New York can be counted on to take Christmas literally, it is Macy's, but please do not expect Christ in the manger. This is retail: Literal faith means the gospel according to Santa. So a supernatural toymaker -- and the primacy of the written word -- is the sweet, comforting fiction on which this year's windows are built. Visitors are encouraged to compose a letter to the old guy on a window with a built-in touch screen and then to watch as letters from around the world make their magical way north. 
 The whole thing has the oversaturated colors and gee-whiz soundtrack of a trip to Disneyland, with elves whose exuberant cuteness shoots right out of their toes and curls their shoes into big, sparkly curlicues. After a few minutes, the experience grows so cloying that I think I can actually smell it, but it turns out to be an exhaust vent for Cinnabon. 
 In the northernmost window on Broadway sits Santa himself, who was experiencing operational difficulties one morning last week. ''Santa! Santa!'' a child standing beside me shouted with increasing desperation, as a technician picked up the inanimate red figure and shook him around. ''He can't hear you right now, baby,'' the child's mother said softly, guiding him away.
 On the other end of the irony spectrum lies Barneys. Let other stores worry about showcasing merchandise; under the creative guidance of Simon Doonan, the Barneys windows have gained fame as playful little pieces of sophisticated theater, there for no purpose other than to amuse. As Mr. Doonan puts it in the 1989 entry of his online biography: ''Makes window dressing history. Sticks lumpy caricatures of celebs in the holiday windows -- Madonna, Margaret Thatcher, Martha Graham, etc. -- and drowns in an orgy of accolades and global media attention.''
 Twenty years later, the lumpy caricatures are back. The sophisticated fun, not so much. 
 Hanging from satin ribbons like playfully misshapen Christmas tree ornaments, papier-mache figures celebrate the 35th anniversary of ''Saturday Night Live.'' Really? ''SNL''? Wasn't it only 10 years ago that we were celebrating its 25th anniversary?
 John Belushi hovers in a bee costume near Gilda Radner's gigantic wedge of frizzy black hair, a few yards from the ''Wayne's World'' boys and Debbie Downer, all with outsize heads, exaggerated features and mottled surfaces.
 In the middle of all this handmade merriment are machine-finished light boxes, illuminating the show's logo. All in all, the impression is less of a theme or a tribute than a paid sponsorship: holiday windows, brought to you by NBC.
 The store's exhortation to ''Have a Witty Holiday'' is continued around the corner on East 61st Street, in a display of children's artwork that will be sold for charity. The young artists were asked to paint a portrait of the wittiest person in their lives. They responded with pictures of the sun, a $10 bill and a piece of cake. That made me laugh. 
 A few blocks away, Bergdorf Goodman's windows beckon with a swanky sparkle. ''Alice in Wonderland'' is the loose inspiration, and some fancy clothes play a role, but exquisite handicraft is the star of the show. 
 The shine comes from a vision in mirrors: A silver lobster plays a silver violin, beneath fluted columns with mosaic animal heads, under a disco ball surrounded by a Venetian frame -- all reflecting the street scene, and all echoing a dramatic Pamella Roland gown swooping down from above.
 Elsewhere, a king and queen, in black and red, sit on a chess board playing cards and drinking tea. But the chessboard is standing on edge against the back wall of the display, so the view is of the top of the monarchs' heads -- a neat optical trick that makes it seem as if you are peering down from above rather than walking by on the sidewalk.
 The true standout is a fantasia of white, built -- literally and literarily -- out of books. In a space covered top to bottom with whitewashed volumes, a dodo bird with feathers made out of pages hobbles near a turtle with a lamb's head. A tea party spills out of the pages of an open tome like a tongue out of an open mouth. Delicate birds flutter out of another with origami pages. You could stare at it for an hour and only then notice the frog wearing a judicial wig. 
 ''It's everything you want from a window,'' my friend said. ''You basically want to feel like the Little Match Girl, with your nose pressed up against the glass. You want to be delivered from your drab existence in just the moment before you perish from the cold.'' 
 This year, a great many New Yorkers are feeling that chill. They will do their holiday shopping not at fancy Manhattan department stores but at discount outlets and national retailers -- if they shop at all.
 At Kmart on Astor Place, the display is just a double row of felt dolls (carrot-nosed snowmen, elves of color) with visible price tags: $24.99. The message is simple. Product. Price. Purchase. The rest is just so much window dressing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MERRY WINDOWS: A swirl of letters to the North Pole, with elves thrown into the mix, is the focus of a Macy's display, top. At Bergdorf Goodman, left, ''Alice in Wonderland'' inspired a sparkly showcase of goods. And at Barneys, right, Coneheads and other ''Saturday Night Live'' characters usher in the holidays.
 CHILD'S WORK: Pupils' art on display at Barneys, left. Alexis Ann Beyer, 8, and her mother, Sylvia, at Macy's, where visitors can compose a letter to Santa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EIRINI VOURLOUMIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); THEATER (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); RELIGION (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



181 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: 4 Ex-Governors, Older, Grayer And Yearning for Jobs of Yore

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
Over the course of the summer, four men of a certain age looked around their respective states and registered displeasure. They concluded that they could do things better -- yet again.
 The four are former governors who have grown old enough since leaving office to qualify for senior citizen discounts at the movies. Now they want their old jobs back.
 One of them, Roy E. Barnes of Georgia, has added a passel of grandchildren -- six to be exact -- since he sat in the governor's chair. Another, Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, was the state's youngest governor ever when first elected -- in 1982. A third, Jerry Brown of California, has traded in his groovy blue Valiant that he drove as governor for a Toyota Camry hybrid, which thieves recently removed the wheels from.
 ''I love Oregon,'' said the fourth, John A. Kitzhaber, governor of this state for eight years. ''It's a state that's not baked yet.'' 
 Running again is ''liberating,'' Mr. Kitzhaber said. ''I'm not afraid to lose. I don't want to. But I'm not afraid.''
 In terms of the fun factor, being a governor right now may fall somewhere between having blood drawn and scaling fish. Budgets are in turmoil, housing markets remain rocky and high unemployment has hobbled nearly every state. California's economy is one of the hardest hit in the country, with nearly $20 billion in budget gaps looming, and Georgia, Iowa and Oregon are like the rest of the nation, reeling from joblessness and debt.
 But all that has not stopped these men -- and maybe a fifth. A former Maryland governor, Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., a Republican, has made noises about throwing his hat in the ring again, too. 
 While no group keeps official statistics, experts in both parties said they could not recall a time when so many individuals sought to recapture the governor's seat in one election year. With 37 seats up for grabs in 2010, these old newcomers have introduced an unusual dynamic as both parties scramble to pick up new states.
 The four former governors -- all Democrats except Mr. Branstad, and with 10 terms of experience among them -- say that they have no larger political goal beyond the return to the governor's office, and that they were inspired by what each felt was an opportunity for a seasoned hand to steer his state through troubled times. In some cases, there was also a desire to right what they believe had been wronged in their absence. 
 ''I've already lived in the governor's mansion,'' said Mr. Barnes, 61, who was ousted in 2002 after one term. ''I don't need another line on my resume. I'm not seeking any higher office, and I don't like flying in helicopters -- I never understood how those things got off the ground anyway. I am running for one reason and one reason only, and that is to change a state headed in the wrong direction and to come back here and raise grandchildren. When you get to that point in political life, it is really comfortable.''
 In the very nascent campaigns, all four men find themselves in fairly comfortable spots, with name recognition giving them a fund-raising edge over primary competitors. All are largely ahead in opinion polls.
 Opponents say the comeback candidates demonstrate their state parties' lack of a political bench. But the calculation that these former governors could win, coupled with the warm reception they often find on the trail, also reflects a desperation among constituents both for the go-go years of the past and for tested hands. 
 ''It is the political version of comfort food,'' said David A. Yepsen, the director of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute, who covered decades of political races for The Des Moines Register. ''At the time those people had their last outing there was a lot of unhappiness with them, but people tend to look at the past through sepia-toned glasses.''
 The tenures of each candidate, as well as the political climate they now enter, varies. Mr. Barnes was defeated by the current governor, Sonny Perdue, in large part over his move to remove a Confederate symbol from the state flag, which alienated white rural voters. The Georgia legislature, dominated for decades by Democrats, fell firmly in the hands of Republicans in 2004.
 ''He has considerable political skills and is still a forceful speaker,'' said Merle Black, a professor of politics at Emory University. ''Part of his problems was he did more talking than listening when he was governor.''
 Mr. Branstad, 63, first elected in 1982, went on to be Iowa's longest serving governor, ending his tenure in 1999. Until recently the president of Des Moines University, Mr. Branstad said he had become increasingly miffed over the state's large budget deficits and scandals in its economic development office. 
 ''The economy now is not as bad as it was in the early '80s when we closed 38 banks and farm land values dropped 63 percent,'' he said. ''Today interest rates are low, farm commodity prices are not bad and Iowa has a more diversified economy, but we have a governor and Legislature that went on a spending spree.''
 Mr. Kitzhaber, who was an emergency room doctor before entering politics and for a while after, served as Oregon's governor from 1995 to 2003, when he was barred by term limits from running again. With his signature boots and jeans, Mr. Kitzhaber looks somewhat locked in time, the way that river-rafting, fly-fishing, trail-hiking men seem to keep their youthful appearance. 
 ''I'm 62 years old,'' he said, ''and I've got a house and a job I love and a 12-year-old son I am parenting.''
 Mr. Kitzhaber was the most specific and most confident in his delivery of policy ideas among two Republican rivals and one Democrat before the Oregon Rural Electric Cooperative Association meeting here last week. 
 ''The funny thing about him is that he's still got enthusiasm, he's still energized and he's not washed up,'' said Lonny Sheffield, an electric supply company representative who attended the meeting.
 Those old enough to remember Mr. Brown's two terms as governor of California beginning in 1975 may recall a suave bachelor with a thick mane of hair who was famous for traipsing to Africa with the singer Linda Ronstadt, his onetime girlfriend. Now 71, he is bald, married and decidedly more law and order in his political thinking.
 Currently the state's attorney general, Mr. Brown has yet to formally announce his candidacy and has no declared competitor within his party. As experience teaches in such circumstances, he has kept his campaign infrastructure minimal and his words, as it comes to the governor's job, also minimal. 
 Mr. Yepsen, of the Paul Simon Institute in Illinois, said Mr. Brown and the other former governors share at least one challenge: to benefit politically from being experienced (old) without seeming too experienced (old). 
 ''If candidates are not careful,'' he said, ''the campaigns will rapidly turn into an argument about the past and not the future.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about four former governors who are running for their old offices misstated the model of the car that Gov. Jerry Brown of California drove when he was first elected. It was a Plymouth Satellite, not a Plymouth Valiant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Brown on election night in 1978 and in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 PHOTOS (A4) CHART: Betting on a Comeback: Years after leaving office, former governors in four states are running for the same job again in 2010. (Sources: Election results from Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections and Iowa Secretary of State's Office) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); BUDGETS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); HOUSING MARKET (65%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (72%); JOHN KITZHABER (72%); TERRY BRANSTAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



182 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: The Demons That Haunt The Pakistanis

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- These are emotional times in Pakistan, particularly sincePresident Obama told its leaders last week to fight harder against Islamist extremists, and expanded a deeply unpopular covert air strike program in Pakistani territory.
 After Mr. Obama's speech at West Point, newspapers and talk shows here were full of heated commentary that those demands would push Pakistan further toward disaster. ''Approval of increasing drone strikes in Pakistan,'' blared one headline. ''A very difficult time is approaching for Pakistan,'' a former foreign secretary intoned on television.
 Some of the feeling is not hard to understand. Who would want another country using missiles against targets in one's own? But there was something else, an anti-Americanism whose depth and intensity I could not fully grasp. So to find out where Pakistan's head was, I sought help from one of the country's top psychiatrists. 
 What I got was not so much an explanation as an illustration, in all its anger, of the embittered language in which a great many Pakistanis discuss their relationship with America -- living proof of just how different America's understanding of Pakistan is from its own view of itself.
 ''The real terrorists are not the men in turbans we see on Al Jazeera,'' said the psychiatrist, Dr. Malik H. Mubbashar, vice chancellor of the University of Health Sciences in Lahore. ''They are wearing Gucci suits and Brit hats. It's your great country, Madam.''
 I asked him to spell it out. ''It's coming from Americans, Jews and Indians,'' he said. ''It's an axis of evil that's being supervised by you people.''
 This is not such an unusual view in Pakistan, even if the tone was particularly harsh. At 62 years old, Pakistan is something of a teenager among nations, even in its frame of mind -- self-conscious, emotional, quick to blame others for its troubles.
 It was born in 1947, in a bloody, wrenching partition from India in which hundreds of thousands were killed. That traumatic event left deep scars on the psyches of both nations, and locked the countries into a perilous rivalry in ways that foreign observers often fail to understand.
 But while India closed itself off, eliminated its feudal system and developed its economy, Pakistan kept a corrosive system of feudal privilege and went through decades of political upheaval. And India still looms large in Pakistan's collective imagination.
 ''We didn't heal very well after the partition because we didn't deal with it,'' said Ishma Alvi, a psychologist in Karachi.
 So it is natural that Pakistan's security concerns focus much more on its eastern border with India, where the rivalry over who controls Kashmir festers, and less on its western border with Afghanistan -- a smaller, weaker country that Pakistan has traditionally been able to influence.
 It is that focus that Americans now insist that Pakistan change, and it is not irrational that Pakistanis are resisting. Pakistan and India have fought three wars (or four, depending on who's counting) and India maintains a large force along its border. India has also poured money into Afghanistan, raising hackles on this side of the border.
 These are facts that Pakistanis like Dr. Mubbashar believe the United States willfully ignores as it single-mindedly pursues its own interests, as it did in the 1980s when it was confronting the Soviets. Washington now sees the Taliban and Al Qaeda as the biggest threat in the region, and is exasperated that Pakistan sees things differently.
 ''There is a clash of narratives,'' said Maleeha Lodhi, Pakistan's former ambassador to the United States.
 Being a diplomat, Ms. Lodhi speaks in a low key. But not Dr. Mubbashar, whose brand of patriotism may sound paranoid to an American, but is shared by many Pakistanis. He asserted that the American security company formerly known as Blackwater, a favorite target of criticism for ultranationalists, rented a house next to his, and that its employees had been trying to lure his servants with sweets, alcohol and ''McDonald's food every Sunday.''
 Conspiracy theories are pervasive in Pakistan, and Ms. Alvi offered an explanation. They are a projection, she said -- a defense mechanism that protects one's psyche from something too difficult to accept. ''It's not me, it's you,'' she said. ''It's a denial of personal responsibility, which goes a long way to cripple our growth.''
 In recent months, Pakistan has begun challenging the Islamist extremists on its border and the extremists have directed bombings against Pakistani citizens and institutions. Even so, Pakistan's powerful news media aggressively trumpet the conspiracy theories, which are consumed by anyone who picks up a paper or turns on a TV.
 But there are exceptions, and I stumbled upon one in the most unlikely of people, the elderly father of a young jihadi. A retired telephone operator living in a working class area of Islamabad, the man blamed his son's ways not on India or America, but squarely on the Pakistani groups that lured him.
 He spoke in the broken, bitter manner of a father who had lost his son, but went out of his way to tell me that foreigners, whatever their faith, would always be welcome in his home. ''Islam treats foreigners according to their wishes,'' he said, sitting cross legged on the floor of a bare room. ''It's not what these people say -- killing them or asking others to terrorize them,'' he said contemptuously of the militants. ''We must treat everybody equally. Christians, Jews, Muslims.''
 Pakistan recently has begun asking hard questions about who it is. The freeing of the news media seven years ago, as unruly as it is, opened the floodgates. Musicians and artists are wrestling with Pakistani identity in new ways, and self-awareness is growing.
 ''Our healing is recent,'' Ms. Alvi said. ''Before, we were very confused about who and what we were.''
 But she said there is still a long way to go.
 ''A giant step forward would be to take responsibility,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (58%) KASHMIR (79%) PAKISTAN (97%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



183 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Obama's War Plan May Shape Midterms

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats successfully capitalized on antiwar anger aimed at the White House in the last two elections. Now, the commander in chief presiding over a troop buildup is not a Republican, but one of their own -- a fact likely to add to Democratic difficulties in what was already looming as a treacherous midterm election.
 At a minimum, President Obama's decision to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan could hold down the enthusiasm, and perhaps the desire to contribute, of voters who backed Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats in the expectation that they would wind down conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 Any depression of Democratic support could be problematic. Given the public's frustration over economic turmoil, which is threatening the governing party, Democrats will need every vote they can get.
 ''If the left is as antiwar as I believe they are, why would they turn out to elect more Democrats who might support the president's policy in Afghanistan?'' asked Senator John Cornyn of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ''It creates a real split and perhaps demoralizes Democrats.''
 The president's war plan has already injected a volatile element into Democratic primaries, with candidates in developing races around the country taking sides on what could be a defining issue in primary battles. 
 In Pennsylvania, Senator Arlen Specter, a former Republican who converted to the Democratic Party this year, quickly staked out a position in opposition to the troop escalation, while his opponent, Representative Joe Sestak, a former military officer who has been trying to run to the left of Mr. Specter, came out in favor it. 
 Other House and Senate candidates have seized on the buildup, siding both for and against it, making it likely that the president's Afghanistan policy will be a central topic in primary races and perhaps general elections as well.
 With national liberal advocacy groups already mobilizing against the troop increase, the president's policy could conceivably prompt additional primary contests against Democratic incumbents, forcing them into races that consume money before general election showdowns with Republicans. Even if they do not instigate primaries, some groups can be expected to run advertisements and stage rallies against Democrats backing escalation.
 Despite the possible negative impact, Democrats and some experts do see a potential benefit arising out of the party division over Afghanistan. 
 For the most vulnerable Democrats -- those in more conservative states and districts -- a vote on the troop escalation presents an opportunity to side with Republicans on a national security issue. At the same time, it would allow a lawmaker to showcase a split with the liberal forces of the party and perhaps -- depending on her ultimate view -- with Speaker Nancy Pelosi herself.
 ''That will help some Democrats in moderate districts, because it cuts into Republican opponents running against them as out-of-touch liberals,'' said Martin Frost, a former congressman from Texas who headed the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee during his tenure. ''It is harder for a Republican opponent to go after the Democrat in a moderate district who votes with the president on the war.''
 Mr. Frost, who was engaged in voter turnout efforts in the last election, said a stance in favor of the buildup could spur criticism from some Democratic constituents. But he said it was unlikely that those voters would then turn around and support a Republican.
 Some top Democrats played down the electoral ramifications of Mr. Obama's Afghanistan policy, saying the president was simply fulfilling his campaign promise to return the American military focus from Iraq to Afghanistan and its potential as a base of terrorism operations. 
 According to this view, the real test will come in 2011, when Mr. Obama will have to choose whether to follow through on his commitment to begin removing troops from Afghanistan as he presumably starts up his own re-election campaign. 
 Democratic strategists say that if nothing else, division over the Afghanistan policy could provide a distraction next year when party leaders had hoped to be free to focus on job creation and deficit reduction -- two issues with appeal to independents. And a vote on spending $30 billion or more for the additional troops is not likely to come before next spring, pushing the subject even closer to election season.
 While Ms. Pelosi acknowledged that Afghanistan is a difficult matter for Democrats, she said she did not anticipate that the troop buildup would be an overriding issue in the midterm elections. She said Democrats would be judged more on how they handle persistent national unemployment and the economy.
 ''Meeting the needs of America's families and seeing the progress that they make is what is important to us and to the president,'' she said. ''We'll measure our success in that way and, hopefully, the American people will too in the next election.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Antiwar protesters rallied Tuesday at West Point before the president spoke about his plan to add troops in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); JOE SESTAK (59%); NANCY PELOSI (59%); JOHN CORNYN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



184 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 3767 words

HEADLINE: The Hostage Business

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE. 
Nicholas Schmidle, a fellow at the New America Foundation and a frequent contributor, is the author of ''To Live or to Perish Forever: Two Tumultuous Years in Pakistan.''

 BODY:
TWO CARLOADS OF gunmen wearing ski masks parked outside Goodfellas, a popular karaoke bar in the Nigerian city of Port Harcourt, on a damp August night in 2006. When the first militant barged through the front door, he was holding an automatic rifle and yelling, ''Everybody down!'' John, a gregarious Scottish oilman, was sitting at a round table near the entrance, watching one of the owners, another Scot, impersonate Mick Jagger while singing ''Satisfaction'' at the karaoke machine. He and the other 50 or so bar patrons dove for cover. John lay motionless on the ground as the intruders scanned the floor, randomly picking hostages. 
 Port Harcourt is the most populous city in the Niger Delta, a sprawling wetland in southern Nigeria that covers an area the size of Kentucky and possesses vast amounts of light, sweet crude oil. John, who specialized in offshore engineering -- and whose full name cannot be given here because he still takes jobs in the delta -- moved there in 1992, lured by the city's boomtown aura. His new salary dwarfed what he had been making back in Aberdeen, the heart of Europe's petroleum industry (thanks to North Sea oil). Nigeria's proven reserves are the 10th largest in the world, and the swamps of the delta provide almost all of it. In the past 50 years, foreign oil companies and scores of crooked politicians have made billions of dollars while most residents of the Niger Delta continue to live in squalor. 
 John had been working in the delta for 14 years when the kidnappings started. He saw the reports in early 2006 of expatriates being taken from offshore oil rigs by a group called the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, or MEND. MEND pledged to cripple the Nigerian economy, and kidnapping foreign oil workers was one pillar of its strategy. Still, John didn't think too much of it. He had been through years of military dictatorship and grown accustomed to the threat of armed robberies and the occasional sight of a body lying in the street. He went out to bars and restaurants and, as was his routine, to Goodfellas on Sunday nights. Until Aug. 13, 2006, MEND had never tried anything so brazen as abducting foreigners from the middle of the city. But everything John thought he knew about Nigeria was about to change. Port Harcourt was the center of a new industry: kidnapping for ransom. 
 Few sectors have endured the economic downturn of recent years better than kidnapping. Confidence in big banks and stock markets might be shaky, but the crudest form of trade -- abducting and bartering people -- seems alive and well. Gregory Bangs, the kidnap-and-ransom manager for Chubb Group, an American insurance company, said that patterns of kidnapping around the world are ''almost inverse'' to that of the global economy. ''In a recessionary environment, the kidnapping rate goes up,'' he told me. More companies are requesting kidnapping and ransom insurance -- Bangs reported a 15 to 20 percent jump at Chubb over the past three years -- than ever before. But why? What makes kidnapping and ransom, or K.& R., such a growth industry? 
 In April, speaking at a security conference in the Nigerian capital Abuja, Mike Okiro, then the inspector general of the national police, shared a revealing fact. He estimated that the total amount of ransoms paid in Nigeria between 2006 and 2008 exceeded $100 million. Over the same period, Nigeria emerged as one of the world's kidnapping hot spots. And Nigeria shows no sign of relinquishing that dubious distinction; according to the minister of police affairs, there were more reported cases over the first seven months of 2009 than in all of 2008. 
 The kidnappings took an economic toll, with oil production down dramatically. In August, the government started an amnesty program for militants willing to hand over their weapons, and oil production recovered. Two months later MEND declared a cease-fire, during which numerous top commanders surrendered and an unsteady calm settled over the delta. But recent violence in Port Harcourt has involved ''former gunmen,'' and MEND is already accusing the Nigerian Army of truce violations and threatening ''appropriate retaliatory actions.'' 
 Besides, though MEND first introduced the kidnapping business to Nigeria, kidnapping for ransom has since become a broader phenomenon. One reason is the economic incentive. Two months ago, I met Okiro at his Abuja home. The room was decorated with fake sunflowers and many portraits of Okiro. He had retired as police inspector general but remained proud of the measures he took while in office to stop kidnappers. They included tougher penalties and a law requiring registration for all SIM cards, which would make it easier to track the criminals' phone calls. But as long as families and governments and companies continue to pay ransoms, Okiro told me, ''there will be no end to it.'' 
 The U.S. government concurs. Discussing the Somali pirates in April, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said companies that paid ransoms to the pirates were ''part of the problem.'' ''Clearly, if they didn't pay the ransoms, we'd be in a stronger position,'' Gates added. (When a terrorist organization is involved, paying a ransom can actually put individuals and companies in violation of U.S. laws, including the Patriot Act.) As Erik Rye, an adviser for hostage affairs at the State Department, puts it, ''If you're out there feeding the bears, the bears are going to keep coming into the camp.'' 
 But principles and policies are one thing. What about the victim? ''Depending on who you talk to, we're sort of the Antichrist: 'You guys pay ransoms and that's it,' '' Jack Cloonan, the former president of Clayton Consultants, a leading kidnapping-and-ransom consultancy, told me. ''That's not necessarily the case. I don't have any control over dysfunction in Somalia, which is just a hellhole.'' To those who say the K.& R. industry only makes things worse, Cloonan replies, ''Let's wait for your kid to get kidnapped.'' 
 OHN, THE SCOTTISH OILMAN, felt a tug on his shoulder and looked up to see a gunman, who said, ''Come with me.'' He and five other hostages -- an American, a Briton, an Irishman, a Pole and a German -- were pushed into minivans idling outside Goodfellas. They raced to the waterfront. At a wooden jetty, two speedboats waited. Everyone boarded, and then they disappeared into the delta's creeks. 
 News about the kidnapping spread quickly around the world, and crisis-management teams formed in Lagos and Port Harcourt. At the meetings sat the hostages' national and corporate representatives, along with kidnapping-and-ransom consultants. The K.& R. industry has four main components: K.& R. consultancies, insurance companies, corporations and governments. About three-quarters of Fortune 500 companies in the United States carry kidnapping insurance. John Chase, managing director of crisis response at AKE, a risk-mitigation company, has been in K.& R. for almost 20 years and says corporations are ''taking out more and more policies.'' American International Group (AIG) maintains 5,000 such policies. AIG, Lloyd's of London and Chubb dominate the insurance side of the industry. All told, the global premium for kidnapping-and-ransom policies totals approximately $300 million.
 What does a kidnapping-and-ransom policy entail? If an employee of Acme Widgets is kidnapped, Acme pays the ransom, and its insurance company pays out to Acme. But more important, once a kidnapping occurs, K.& R. consultants enter the picture. The consultant's primary job is to negotiate the ransom. There are fewer than 30 such consultants with more than 10 years of experience around the world, according to Chase of AKE. 
 The contemporary kidnapping-and-ransom industry emerged in the late 1970s in response to rampant kidnappings in Colombia and throughout Latin America. Globally, for the next 25 years, most cases occurred in Latin America. But political and economic developments have begun redrawing the map of kidnapping hot spots. Chase still considers Colombia ''the most mature market'' for kidnapping because Colombian perpetrators have been at it the longest -- although incidents decreased after President Alvaro Uribe began to take on the country's guerrilla movements in 2002. There were 465 reported cases in Colombia last year (down from almost 3,000 in 2002). Mexico now has the most kidnappings, with an estimated 7,000 in 2008, though this number has stayed steady in recent years. In fact, Latin America's share of total reported kidnappings fell to 42 percent in 2008 from 65 percent in 2004. 
 Gregory Bangs, the K.& R. manager at Chubb, doesn't foresee the global market flattening out anytime soon. He said new markets were flourishing outside Latin America. Two emerging markets are in Africa and the Middle East; together their share of reported cases nearly quadrupled between 2004 and 2008. During that time, Somali pirates seized dozens of ships off the Horn of Africa. The ships were usually insured, and the pirates made off with increasingly large sums. In postwar Iraq, criminals relied on kidnapping to raise money, and Al Qaeda used kidnappings and beheadings to spread terror. The Taliban have also turned to kidnapping to raise money. And in Nigeria, what began with MEND quickly expanded. Foreigners are still kidnapped in Nigeria, but because many international companies have pulled their employees out of the country, the majority of cases now involve Nigerian victims. The range of victims seems to keep expanding. Kidnappers have grabbed children on the way to school. This summer, two politicians from central Nigeria were abducted; when their relatives couldn't pay the ransom, the captors freed the two men to go and find the money -- but only after they left their wives as collateral. 
 Perhaps the most shocking incident occurred in August, when Pete Edochie, a star of Nigeria's film industry, was kidnapped. Edochie is a national icon. He is chairman of a national rebranding committee that is assigned the task of improving Nigeria's image. Nigerians were shocked when they heard that kidnappers on a road in Anambra State had blocked Edochie's S.U.V. and pulled him from the vehicle. Days later, after he was released for a reported 10 million naira, or $64,700, a newspaper headline read: ''But We Are All Kidnapped!''
 THE MEND MILITANTS built makeshift huts for John and his fellow hostages while singing Christian hymns and drinking kai-kai, a locally made palm liquor. The hostages ate takeout, which the kidnappers ordered from a restaurant called Mr. Biggs in downtown Port Harcourt -- an hour's boat ride away.
 Helicopters passed over the camp occasionally, though no one ever seriously thought about trying to escape. They would be lost without G.P.S. devices, maps or compasses. In addition, the kidnappers assured them that negotiations were moving ahead. 
 If there's any consolation to being abducted in Nigeria, it's that kidnappers there seldom get violent. It's purely business. ''Someone's going to pay them something; that they know,'' Mark Courtney, a South African kidnapping-and-ransom consultant, recently told me. K.& R. consultants almost never get on the phone and haggle with kidnappers. Their expertise is devising the ''target settlement figure,'' taking into account numerous factors. Is the victim carrying anything that identifies him as working for a specific company? Are the kidnappers experienced? What was the amount of the previous ransoms paid in that city or state? ''You go by what you know to be the going rate in that particular region,'' Chase, of AKE, said. 
 Negotiating a ransom is more art than science. ''If you pay the ransom too quickly, the bad guys think you have access to more money,'' Courtney said. If you pay too late, the victim could get sick and die. ''You have to turn your client into a commodity,'' he said. 
 A breakthrough came on the 10th day of John's captivity. That morning, one of the kidnappers handed him a camouflage shirt, pants, a pair of gloves and a balaclava, with instructions to suit up. John put on the clothes, which made him indistinguishable from his captors. They all boarded a speedboat and motored through the creeks. After about 20 minutes, the boat beached on a patch of sand, where three men were waiting. One of them held a cellphone. ''We're going to make a phone call, and a guy is going to speak with you and give you a proof-of-life question,'' said the one holding the phone, whose voice brimmed with the measured confidence of someone about to close a deal. ''They want to know that you're alive.'' 
 Chase said the proof-of-life question -- and the way it is handled -- often defines the case. ''It's always comforting when they talk about the P.O.L.,'' Chase said. ''They've done this before. They know the form. They know how the game is played.'' 
 John took off his balaclava and held the phone to his ear. The man on the other end said he was with the State Security Services, or S.S.S. He asked John two proof-of-life questions: where did he live in 1986 and what was the company he worked for. John answered them both correctly. 
 ''All right, I know it's you,'' the officer said. He assured John that the S.S.S. was working hard for the release of the six men, and then he hung up. John pulled on the balaclava, climbed into the boat and returned to camp. 
 That night, the kidnappers got ready. Everyone eventually loaded into three speedboats and raced toward a meeting point. After some time, John could make out the yellow glow of Port Harcourt up ahead. The boats eased against a crumbling concrete berth, and the hostages were hoisted out. They ran to a waiting Land Cruiser and then took off down a potholed, unlighted road, en route to the governor's mansion. 
 A battery of TV cameras was waiting for the six hostages, who were jubilant, shocked and relieved. Peter Odili, the debonair governor of Rivers State, of which Port Harcourt is the capital, hugged the men and smiled. During Odili's two terms as governor, from 1999 to 2007, journalists and human rights organizations criticized him for paying thugs to rig elections and using public funds to pay ransoms. ''Kidnapping business is a source of fraud for the governors,'' Festus Keyamo, an Abuja-based human rights lawyer, said. (Among his clients is the militant leader Mujahid Dokubo-Asari.) One kidnapper in Port Harcourt told me that every ransom he received had been paid by the state government. 
 ONE MORNING IN late August, I stood outside a villa in Port Harcourt with a kidnapper named Adiele Nwaeze. Overhead, clouds moaned with thunder, and rain began to fall. Nwaeze, who is 33 and a father of four, stepped under a ledge to stay dry. He wore a navy blue suit and black leather shoes shaped like gondolas.
 Nwaeze got into the business 10 years ago. His father, who sold firewood for a living, died when Nwaeze was young. Nwaeze took a job as an auto mechanic to support his mother and three siblings. One day, he went to the governor's residence and offered to work on the official vehicles. The gatekeepers told Nwaeze that the cars were under warranty, so he left. 
 Not long after that, Nwaeze says, emissaries of Peter Odili, who was a gubernatorial candidate at the time, showed up at Nwaeze's garage. He says they offered him 200,000 naira, or about $1,700, to help them rig a coming election. They threw in a machine gun and 10 AK-47's to sweeten the deal, according to Nwaeze. (Odili told me he had never heard of Nwaeze.) Nwaeze says he accepted and spent Election Day stealing ballot boxes. Odili won with ease. But after the polls closed, there was no more work. Nwaeze formed a gang. ''I had no choice,'' he said. ''I had a gun and I had to make a living. We started bunkering oil pipelines'' -- or stealing oil -- ''then kidnapping expatriates -- a lot of white men.'' 
 In July 2008, Nwaeze's gang of about 10 men abducted two Germans from a construction site near Port Harcourt. The kidnappers outgunned more than a dozen Nigerian soldiers who were assigned to protect the expatriate staff. ''We kill the soldier and take the man,'' he said. ''We are not afraid of the soldiers.'' Nwaeze took the German hostages into the creeks and held them for more than a month while their employer, a German-Nigerian construction company called Julius Berger, worked for their release. (Meanwhile, Julius Berger terminated its outstanding contracts in the Niger Delta.) Nwaeze first demanded 300 million naira, or $2.6 million. He claims he settled for 50 million naira, about $430,000. 
 What did Nwaeze do with his cut? First, he hired an architect to design a home in Port Harcourt. Then he bought cars: a Honda City and a Nissan Pathfinder for himself, and a Honda sedan for the commissioner of police in Rivers State, according to Innocent Nzenwa, Nwaeze's lawyer. Nzenwa described his client's relationship with the commissioner as ''a romance.'' ''They knew what each other were doing, but they were in payback,'' he said. ''You can't commit such crimes without notifying the policemen. They usually inform the police on the day of the strike so the police stay off the road and allow them. The police get their own percentage.'' 
 Bala Hassan, the aforementioned police commissioner, told me Nwaeze was ''the most-wanted kidnapper in Port Harcourt'' as well as ''very vicious.'' He denied any ties with the man, saying: ''I am a lawyer; I don't put my hand in that. That's a factual impossibility.''
 Back in April, not long after Nwaeze's new home was finished, the ''romance'' with the commissioner, if there was one, soured. Nwaeze's home was unexpectedly bulldozed. Nzenwa, the lawyer for Nwaeze, blamed a ''falling out'' between the two men that resulted in wanted posters for Nwaeze all over Port Harcourt. 
 The villa in which Nwaeze and I met in August doubled as a military safe house. Ten days earlier, he surrendered under the aegis of the amnesty program. Still, Nwaeze was skeptical. He expected more incentives from the government. ''Let them give me back my house,'' he said. ''Then give me money to start my life so I can forget about how I have come. On my own, I used to make 20 million naira'' -- $130,000 -- ''in less than a week. Now that I have dropped the gun, they should give me more than that, so that I can remove my eyes from these things.'' 
 Nzenwa, the lawyer, suspected his client would be kidnapping again before long. ''When the government doesn't meet his requests, he will have to go and rearm himself,'' he said. 
 HE KIDNAPPING-AND-ransom-insurance industry thrives in a morally ambiguous space. But what is the alternative? ''Fire insurance has been known to stimulate arson, and life-insurance policies have led to quite a few homicides, too,'' said Thomas Hargrove, an American held for 11 months in 1994-5 by Colombian guerrillas and whose story inspired the making of the 2000 film ''Proof of Life.'' ''Are you going to quit taking out life insurance and fire insurance?'' 
 Even kidnappers seem cognizant of their ethical compromises. Ransoms may perpetuate the consulting business, but kidnappers are the ones who decide whether abducting people remains a viable trade. In late August, I reached Mujahid Dokubo-Asari on the phone shortly after he fled Nigeria for Benin. He was among the first militants to take up arms in the Niger Delta. His arrest in 2005, and subsequent demands by other militants for his release, fostered the creation of MEND. 
 Dokubo-Asari began our conversation by calling kidnapping ''immoral,'' ''evil'' and ''counterrevolutionary.'' Criminals were responsible for most of the kidnappings, he said. They were the ones accepting amnesty, he added, not the true militants or, in his words, ''freedom fighters.'' ''Even if they drop their guns and come out today -- what next?'' he asked. ''The money they were making, the undeserved money from kidnapping, they are not going to get it any longer. If they can't get it any longer, they will go back to crime.'' 
 Dokubo-Asari's objections to kidnapping softened, however, the more we spoke. When I asked him about those still fighting in the creeks, he referred to the militants' ''near agreement'' that ''abduction of government officials and those businessmen who have benefited from government contracts, that is not immoral.'' And foreign oil workers? ''We are discussing all that,'' he said. ''The conversation is going on now.''
 On my last night in Port Harcourt, I had dinner at Cheers Bar with a kidnapper who asked to be identified by his nom de guerre, ''De Don.'' De Don, who is 28, wore a peach-and-white long-sleeve shirt, with the top buttons undone. A gold cross hung around his neck. ''It is just for beauty,'' he said. ''It doesn't mean I'm a Christian.'' Three years ago, De Don graduated from college with a degree in political science. He considered ''The Prince'' his favorite book. While at school, he joined a campus gang known as the Greenlanders. When he couldn't find work after graduation, he tapped into the Greenlanders' alumni network and asked for help. Soon he was living in the creeks with fellow Greenlanders, part of a kidnapping syndicate. 
 De Don admitted kidnapping three people. One of them was the 7-year-old son of a politician. He ran an amateur operation; the ransoms he received were paltry compared with those commanded by someone like Nwaeze. ''I have never kidnapped whites,'' he told me. ''That's where the real money comes.'' Still, he made enough in the past year to rent an apartment in Port Harcourt, buy a 2002 Mercedes sedan, support his family and open a beauty salon for one of his girlfriends. He hoped one day to buy a cinema where he could show soccer matches. 
 A World Cup qualifying match was playing on a TV across the room. A handful of boisterous middle-aged white men clustered around the bar. 
 I asked De Don if he might contemplate coming back to Cheers Bar on a busy night to kidnap a few expats. ''No way,'' he said. ''When I am coming into a bar, I'm coming to spend money and flex, not to kidnap anyone.'' Plus, he was waiting to see how the amnesty played out. 
 ''After knowing what it takes to become a political scientist, then going into such things as kidnapping, it's not really ideal,'' he went on to say. The bar cheered when one team scored a goal. De Don turned to the TV and watched the replay. Then he looked back at me and shook his head. ''I am not happy doing this,'' he said. ''But I need it to survive.'' 
 By Nicholas Schmidle

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rebel militants in the Niger Delta have used kidnapping and sabotage to disrupt oil production.
Adiele Nwaeze, an admitted kidnapper, accepted an amnesty offer from the Nigerian government. (ABOVE: PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER. RIGHT: PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK NAAGBANTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.) (pg.MM44 and 45)
In 2006, rebels took six foreigners from Goodfellas, a bar in Port Harcourt, Nigeria.
 Adiele Nwaeze blamed authorities for the demolition of his new home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE) (pg.MM47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); ROBBERY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); WETLANDS (69%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%)

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (50%); AMERICAN INSURANCE CO OF TEXAS (50%)

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NIGERIA (94%); NIGER (94%); SCOTLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



185 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Food Stamps and the Tough Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Food Stamp Use Soars Across U.S., and Stigma Fades'' (''The Safety Net'' series, front page, Nov. 29):
 It is ironic and a little sad that any stigma still attaches to acceptance of food stamps when jobs end and incomes disappear. When President John F. Kennedy established the Food Stamp Program on a pilot basis in 1961, a principal objective was to remove the stigma attached to receipt by poor families of Department of Agriculture surplus commodities -- beans, cornmeal and milk powder -- by providing vouchers (food stamps) to buy food at the store. 
 The Kennedy administration had to start the Food Stamp Program by executive order because Southern senators and representatives dominated the committees on agriculture and appropriations, and would not have passed a food stamp bill in 1961. But once the program was established, they were never able to end or limit it, despite repeated efforts. 
 Over the years, both political parties have provided the money to cover more eligible families when job losses made it necessary.
 John A. Schnittker Santa Ynez, Calif., Nov. 29, 2009
 The writer was chief economist and under secretary at the Department of Agriculture during the 1960s.
 To the Editor:
 One aspect of the case for food stamps that was not mentioned is the positive multigenerational effects that food stamps can provide for families. 
 Studies show that stable access to food, like food stamps or subsidized lunch programs, can have profound effects on our country's education systems and young children's ability to succeed in school. The better children do in school at early ages, the more likely they are to graduate from high school, attend college and support their own families. 
 According to a recent study by First Focus, a family's purchasing power increases by 40 percent when it receives nutritional subsidies. That means more money for stable housing and school supplies that will increase a child's likelihood to succeed academically. 
 The equation is simple: When you stabilize the parents, you stabilize the children.
 Programs mentioned in the article like Head Start and AARP need our country's support to be able to share information about public benefits with the people who need them most.
 Many thanks for shining the spotlight on these important safety-net issues.
 Kirsten Lodal Washington, Dec. 1, 2009
 The writer is chief executive and co-founder of LIFT, a national nonprofit that assists low-income families with employment, housing and public benefits.
 To the Editor:
 We are seeing more Americans turning to a program they never thought they would need to put food on the table. The face of hunger has shifted at emergency feeding programs, too. 
 In addition to losing jobs, people are losing income in reduced hours, and the temporary or seasonal jobs that people turn to at this time of year often pay little. These ''underemployed'' may earn enough to disqualify them for food stamps, but they still need help. This fact is reflected in longer lines at New York City's soup kitchens and food pantries, where City Harvest is seeing that demand is up an average of 15 percent. 
 There's no shame in reaching out for help at a time like this. We should ensure that people who need food can get it, whether with food stamps or at the local food pantry.
 Jilly Stephens Executive Director, City Harvest New York, Dec. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The growing number of food stamp participants, particularly children, highlights the growing challenge for the program: not simply how do we feed 36 million Americans, but how do we feed them healthfully?
 As it stands now, the average food stamp benefit only contributes to the growing obesity epidemic in America, a problem increasingly faced by the poor. When, calorie for calorie, fruits and vegetables cost 10 times as much as processed food, we create a system of nutritional injustice that is just as tragic and enduring as hunger itself.
 Say what you will about the nutritional choices of adults, but there is no reason for half of America's children to suffer nutritional deficiencies that will affect them for a lifetime. We need to ensure that food stamps are indeed a benefit, not another burden.
 Alissa Nelson St. Louis, Dec. 1, 2009
 The writer, a master's candidate in social work and public health, is a research assistant in the Health Communication Research Lab, George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University in St. Louis.
 To the Editor:
 Despite the sobering implications, your thorough article about the increased use of food stamps is to be commended. In an era in which we focus on the obesity epidemic, we cannot lose sight of the fact that hunger exists here as well. 
 Several years ago, as a summer school teacher, I too often heard, ''Mr. Jeff, I can't do it.'' The refrain came from one of my more impoverished students. His family struggled to put food on the table, and the boy's hunger left him unable to concentrate. His success wasn't about his needing to try harder, but about feeding his undernourished mind. 
 When one in four children is a recipient of food stamps, strengthening this knot in the safety net is crucial. But let us equally find the resolve and resources to support our other hunger-alleviating programs, W.I.C. and the school breakfast program. Our children need them. 
 Jeff Hom Boston, Dec. 1, 2009
 The writer is a student at Harvard Medical School and the Harvard School of Public Health.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOPOS GRAPHICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); SEASONAL WORKERS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); POLITICS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (83%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009



186 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE HILL; Pg. 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Obama's War, Democrats' Unease

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats successfully capitalized on antiwar anger aimed at the White House in the last two elections. Now, the commander in chief presiding over a troop buildup is not a Republican, but one of their own -- a fact likely to add to Democratic difficulties in what was already looming as a treacherous midterm election.
 At a minimum, President Obama's decision to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan could hold down the enthusiasm, and perhaps the desire to contribute, of voters who backed Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats in the expectation that they would wind down conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 Any depression of Democratic support could be problematic. Given the public's frustration over economic turmoil, which is threatening the governing party, Democrats will need every vote they can get.
 ''If the left is as antiwar as I believe they are, why would they turn out to elect more Democrats who might support the president's policy in Afghanistan?'' asked Senator John Cornyn of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ''It creates a real split and perhaps demoralizes Democrats.''
 The president's war plan has already injected a volatile element into Democratic primaries, with candidates in developing races around the country taking sides on what could be a defining issue in primary battles. 
 In Pennsylvania, Senator Arlen Specter, a former Republican who converted to the Democratic Party this year, quickly staked out a position in opposition to the troop escalation, while his opponent, Representative Joe Sestak, a former military officer who has been trying to run to the left of Mr. Specter, came out in favor it. 
 Other House and Senate candidates have seized on the buildup, siding both for and against it, making it likely that the president's Afghanistan policy will be a central topic in primary races and perhaps general elections as well.
 With national liberal advocacy groups already mobilizing against the troop increase, the president's policy could conceivably prompt additional primary contests against Democratic incumbents, forcing them into races that consume money before general election showdowns with Republicans. Even if they do not instigate primaries, some advocacy groups can be expected to run advertisements and stage rallies against Democrats backing the escalation.
 Despite the possible negative impact, Democrats and some experts do see a potential benefit arising out of the party division over how to proceed in Afghanistan. 
 For the most vulnerable Democrats -- those in more conservative states and districts -- a vote on the troop escalation presents an opportunity to side with Republicans on a national security issue. At the same time, it would allow a lawmaker to showcase a split with the liberal forces of the party and perhaps -- depending on her ultimate view -- with Speaker Nancy Pelosi herself.
 ''That will help some Democrats in moderate districts, because it cuts into Republican opponents running against them as out-of-touch liberals,'' said Martin Frost, a former congressman from Texas who headed the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee during his tenure. ''It is harder for a Republican opponent to go after the Democrat in a moderate district who votes with the president on the war.''
 Mr. Frost, who was engaged in voter turnout efforts in the last election, said a stance in favor of the buildup could spur criticism from some Democratic constituents. But he said it was unlikely that those voters would then turn around and support a Republican.
 ''They might make life difficult for the Democrat, but they are not going to stay home,'' he said.
 Some top Democrats played down the electoral ramifications of Mr. Obama's Afghanistan policy, saying the president was simply fulfilling his campaign promise to return the American military focus from Iraq to Afghanistan and its potential as a base of terrorism operations. 
 According to this view, the real test will come in 2011, when Mr. Obama will have to choose whether to follow through on his commitment to begin removing troops from Afghanistan as he presumably starts up his own re-election campaign. 
 Democratic strategists say that if nothing else, division over the Afghanistan policy could provide a distraction next year when party leaders had hoped to be free to focus on job creation and deficit reduction -- two issues with appeal to independents. And a vote on spending $30 billion or more for the additional troops is not likely to come before next spring, pushing the contentious subject even closer to election season.
 While Ms. Pelosi acknowledged that Afghanistan is a difficult internal matter for Democrats, she said she did not anticipate that the troop buildup would be an overriding issue in the midterm elections. She said Democrats would be judged more on how they handle persistent national unemployment and the overall economy.
 ''Meeting the needs of America's families and seeing the progress that they make is what is important to us and to the president,'' she said. ''We'll measure our success in that way and, hopefully, the American people will too in the next election.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); JOE SESTAK (59%); NANCY PELOSI (59%); JOHN CORNYN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



187 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: The Demons That Haunt The Pakistanis

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- These are emotional times in Pakistan, particularly sincePresident Obama told its leaders last week to fight harder against Islamist extremists, and expanded a deeply unpopular covert air strike program in Pakistani territory.
 After Mr. Obama's speech at West Point, newspapers and talk shows here were full of heated commentary that those demands would push Pakistan further toward disaster. ''Approval of increasing drone strikes in Pakistan,'' blared one headline. ''A very difficult time is approaching for Pakistan,'' a former foreign secretary intoned on television.
 Some of the feeling is not hard to understand. Who would want another country using missiles against targets in one's own? But there was something else, an anti-Americanism whose depth and intensity I could not fully grasp. So to find out where Pakistan's head was, I sought help from one of the country's top psychiatrists. 
 What I got was not so much an explanation as an illustration, in all its anger, of the embittered language in which a great many Pakistanis discuss their relationship with America -- living proof of just how different America's understanding of Pakistan is from its own view of itself.
 ''The real terrorists are not the men in turbans we see on Al Jazeera,'' said the psychiatrist, Dr. Malik H. Mubbashar, vice chancellor of the University of Health Sciences in Lahore. ''They are wearing Gucci suits and Brit hats. It's your great country, Madam.''
 I asked him to spell it out. ''It's coming from Americans, Jews and Indians,'' he said. ''It's an axis of evil that's being supervised by you people.''
 This is not such an unusual view in Pakistan, even if the tone was particularly harsh. At 62 years old, Pakistan is something of a teenager among nations, even in its frame of mind -- self-conscious, emotional, quick to blame others for its troubles.
 It was born in 1947, in a bloody, wrenching partition from India in which hundreds of thousands were killed. That traumatic event left deep scars on the psyches of both nations, and locked the countries into a perilous rivalry in ways that foreign observers often fail to understand.
 But while India closed itself off, eliminated its feudal system and developed its economy, Pakistan kept a corrosive system of feudal privilege and went through decades of political upheaval. And India still looms large in Pakistan's collective imagination.
 ''We didn't heal very well after the partition because we didn't deal with it,'' said Ishma Alvi, a psychologist in Karachi.
 So it is natural that Pakistan's security concerns focus much more on its eastern border with India, where the rivalry over who controls Kashmir festers, and less on its western border with Afghanistan -- a smaller, weaker country that Pakistan has traditionally been able to influence.
 It is that focus that Americans now insist that Pakistan change, and it is not irrational that Pakistanis are resisting. Pakistan and India have fought three wars (or four, depending on who's counting) and India maintains a large force along its border. India has also poured money into Afghanistan, raising hackles on this side of the border.
 These are facts that Pakistanis like Dr. Mubbashar believe the United States willfully ignores as it single-mindedly pursues its own interests, as it did in the 1980s when it was confronting the Soviets. Washington now sees the Taliban and Al Qaeda as the biggest threat in the region, and is exasperated that Pakistan sees things differently.
 ''There is a clash of narratives,'' said Maleeha Lodhi, Pakistan's former ambassador to the United States.
 Being a diplomat, Ms. Lodhi speaks in a low key. But not Dr. Mubbashar, whose brand of patriotism may sound paranoid to an American, but is shared by many Pakistanis. He asserted that the American security company formerly known as Blackwater, a favorite target of criticism for ultranationalists, rented a house next to his, and that its employees had been trying to lure his servants with sweets, alcohol and ''McDonald's food every Sunday.''
 Conspiracy theories are pervasive in Pakistan, and Ms. Alvi offered an explanation. They are a projection, she said -- a defense mechanism that protects one's psyche from something too difficult to accept. ''It's not me, it's you,'' she said. ''It's a denial of personal responsibility, which goes a long way to cripple our growth.''
 In recent months, Pakistan has begun challenging the Islamist extremists on its border and the extremists have directed bombings against Pakistani citizens and institutions. Even so, Pakistan's powerful news media aggressively trumpet the conspiracy theories, which are consumed by anyone who picks up a paper or turns on a TV.
 But there are exceptions, and I stumbled upon one in the most unlikely of people, the elderly father of a young jihadi. A retired telephone operator living in a working class area of Islamabad, the man blamed his son's ways not on India or America, but squarely on the Pakistani groups that lured him.
 He spoke in the broken, bitter manner of a father who had lost his son, but went out of his way to tell me that foreigners, whatever their faith, would always be welcome in his home. ''Islam treats foreigners according to their wishes,'' he said, sitting cross legged on the floor of a bare room. ''It's not what these people say -- killing them or asking others to terrorize them,'' he said contemptuously of the militants. ''We must treat everybody equally. Christians, Jews, Muslims.''
 Pakistan recently has begun asking hard questions about who it is. The freeing of the news media seven years ago, as unruly as it is, opened the floodgates. Musicians and artists are wrestling with Pakistani identity in new ways, and self-awareness is growing.
 ''Our healing is recent,'' Ms. Alvi said. ''Before, we were very confused about who and what we were.''
 But she said there is still a long way to go.
 ''A giant step forward would be to take responsibility,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH, 1947, DURING THE AGONIES ACCOMPANYING INDEPENDENCE, MARGARET BOURKE-WHITE/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.WK1)
 FLEEING: A Muslim refugee train in India during the turmoil of 1947. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS) (pg.WK8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (73%) KASHMIR (79%) PAKISTAN (97%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009



188 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: The Demons That Haunt The Pakistanis

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- These are emotional times in Pakistan, particularly sincePresident Obama told its leaders last week to fight harder against Islamist extremists, and expanded a deeply unpopular covert air strike program in Pakistani territory.
 After Mr. Obama's speech at West Point, newspapers and talk shows here were full of heated commentary that those demands would push Pakistan further toward disaster. ''Approval of increasing drone strikes in Pakistan,'' blared one headline. ''A very difficult time is approaching for Pakistan,'' a former foreign secretary intoned on television.
 Some of the feeling is not hard to understand. Who would want another country using missiles against targets in one's own? But there was something else, an anti-Americanism whose depth and intensity I could not fully grasp. So to find out where Pakistan's head was, I sought help from one of the country's top psychiatrists. 
 What I got was not so much an explanation as an illustration, in all its anger, of the embittered language in which a great many Pakistanis discuss their relationship with America -- living proof of just how different America's understanding of Pakistan is from its own view of itself.
 ''The real terrorists are not the men in turbans we see on Al Jazeera,'' said the psychiatrist, Dr. Malik H. Mubbashar, vice chancellor of the University of Health Sciences in Lahore. ''They are wearing Gucci suits and Brit hats. It's your great country, Madam.''
 I asked him to spell it out. ''It's coming from Americans, Jews and Indians,'' he said. ''It's an axis of evil that's being supervised by you people.''
 This is not such an unusual view in Pakistan, even if the tone was particularly harsh. At 62 years old, Pakistan is something of a teenager among nations, even in its frame of mind -- self-conscious, emotional, quick to blame others for its troubles.
 It was born in 1947, in a bloody, wrenching partition from India in which hundreds of thousands were killed. That traumatic event left deep scars on the psyches of both nations, and locked the countries into a perilous rivalry in ways that foreign observers often fail to understand.
 But while India closed itself off, eliminated its feudal system and developed its economy, Pakistan kept a corrosive system of feudal privilege and went through decades of political upheaval. And India still looms large in Pakistan's collective imagination.
 ''We didn't heal very well after the partition because we didn't deal with it,'' said Ishma Alvi, a psychologist in Karachi.
 So it is natural that Pakistan's security concerns focus much more on its eastern border with India, where the rivalry over who controls Kashmir festers, and less on its western border with Afghanistan -- a smaller, weaker country that Pakistan has traditionally been able to influence.
 It is that focus that Americans now insist that Pakistan change, and it is not irrational that Pakistanis are resisting. Pakistan and India have fought three wars (or four, depending on who's counting) and India maintains a large force along its border. India has also poured money into Afghanistan, raising hackles on this side of the border.
 These are facts that Pakistanis like Dr. Mubbashar believe the United States willfully ignores as it single-mindedly pursues its own interests, as it did in the 1980s when it was confronting the Soviets. Washington now sees the Taliban and Al Qaeda as the biggest threat in the region, and is exasperated that Pakistan sees things differently.
 ''There is a clash of narratives,'' said Maleeha Lodhi, Pakistan's former ambassador to the United States.
 Being a diplomat, Ms. Lodhi speaks in a low key. But not Dr. Mubbashar, whose brand of patriotism may sound paranoid to an American, but is shared by many Pakistanis. He asserted that the American security company formerly known as Blackwater, a favorite target of criticism for ultranationalists, rented a house next to his, and that its employees had been trying to lure his servants with sweets, alcohol and ''McDonald's food every Sunday.''
 Conspiracy theories are pervasive in Pakistan, and Ms. Alvi offered an explanation. They are a projection, she said -- a defense mechanism that protects one's psyche from something too difficult to accept. ''It's not me, it's you,'' she said. ''It's a denial of personal responsibility, which goes a long way to cripple our growth.''
 In recent months, Pakistan has begun challenging the Islamist extremists on its border and the extremists have directed bombings against Pakistani citizens and institutions. Even so, Pakistan's powerful news media aggressively trumpet the conspiracy theories, which are consumed by anyone who picks up a paper or turns on a TV.
 But there are exceptions, and I stumbled upon one in the most unlikely of people, the elderly father of a young jihadi. A retired telephone operator living in a working class area of Islamabad, the man blamed his son's ways not on India or America, but squarely on the Pakistani groups that lured him.
 He spoke in the broken, bitter manner of a father who had lost his son, but went out of his way to tell me that foreigners, whatever their faith, would always be welcome in his home. ''Islam treats foreigners according to their wishes,'' he said, sitting cross legged on the floor of a bare room. ''It's not what these people say -- killing them or asking others to terrorize them,'' he said contemptuously of the militants. ''We must treat everybody equally. Christians, Jews, Muslims.''
 Pakistan recently has begun asking hard questions about who it is. The freeing of the news media seven years ago, as unruly as it is, opened the floodgates. Musicians and artists are wrestling with Pakistani identity in new ways, and self-awareness is growing.
 ''Our healing is recent,'' Ms. Alvi said. ''Before, we were very confused about who and what we were.''
 But she said there is still a long way to go.
 ''A giant step forward would be to take responsibility,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH, 1947, DURING THE AGONIES ACCOMPANYING INDEPENDENCE, MARGARET BOURKE-WHITE/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.WK1)
 FLEEING: A Muslim refugee train in India during the turmoil of 1947. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS) (pg.WK8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (73%) KASHMIR (79%) PAKISTAN (97%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009



189 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Portfolio.com's New Tack Diverts From Defunct Magazine

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Portfolio.com is coming out of hibernation.
 The business magazine Portfolio was a spectacular bust for Conde Nast, which pledged $100 million to create and promote it, filled it with lush photography, and offered sizzling profiles that treated executives as celebrities in place of how-to articles. 
 ''We're not giving you peas and carrots,'' David Carey, who oversaw the business at Conde Nast, said when the magazine was introduced. ''We want to capture the glamour.'' 
 The magazine began publishing in spring of 2007. Two years later, Conde Nast shut down Portfolio. And a modest little cousin of Conde Nast decided it could do something with Portfolio.com -- add some more peas and carrots.
 American City Business Journals is, like Conde Nast, a division of Advance Publications. Based in Charlotte, N.C., it has about 700 journalists nationwide, and publishes weekly newspapers and daily Web sites like Business First of Buffalo and the Puget Sound Business Journal, along with nonbusiness publications like Nascar Illustrated. And it has no claims to grand pretensions: on its Web site, it says its reach is ''A Lot Bigger Than You Might Think.''
 Tim Bradbury, the president of new media for the journals division, had been thinking about creating a national site to pull together reporting from the 40 local business journals. He got a phone call on April 27 that Conde Nast would be closing Portfolio. 
 ''The plan then was to shut down the site as well,'' he said. Later that day, he called Mr. Carey to see if Portfolio.com could be the cross-country site for the journal stories. ''I said, 'Why don't we talk about it?' '' Mr. Bradbury said. By the end of the next week, the journals division agreed to acquire the site.
 Mr. Bradbury said he had some concerns about his northern cousin. ''We had a very candid conversation with David, wondering if the brand was damaged too much,'' he said. But Portfolio's New York-centric coverage had at least one advantage. ''If there was any damage, it was in New York, and not in other parts of the country,'' he said.
 Now, Portfolio.com, which had been sophisticated and sardonic, is being reinvented as helpful and earnest. Mr. Bradbury wants it to be a must-read site for small- and medium-size business owners. Other sites, like Inc.com and Entrepreneur.com, already cater to that audience. 
 ''Both of them are offering more news you can use and have a lot of resource potential,'' J. Jennings Moss, Portfolio.com's editor, said of Inc.com and Entrepreneur.com. ''We've got a lot of resources as well -- how to build a business, tips -- but our focus is about finding different stories that matter in the news.'' 
 If Portfolio once delivered gossip about which power brokers were feuding, it now will cover topics like commercial real estate, economic development, health care, and where the stimulus money is going. The goal is to serve ''local decision makers,'' Mr. Bradbury said. ''Our tone is going to be more similar to what we have in our business journals,'' he said.
 Starting this week, the site will add new features, like a tool called BizWatch that lets readers click an icon to get updates on companies and executives from selected news sources. Mr. Moss is starting a series on risk, and local business journal coverage will be highlighted and compiled for trend pieces, like the status of solar energy in the various states. ''For some of the best pieces, it is a national outlet for them, which they don't have now,'' Mr. Bradbury said.
 Despite the shift in tone, the site looks almost exactly the same as the old Portfolio.com, and has similar contributors: Mr. Moss was a deputy at the Conde Nast site, and former Portfolio contributors, like Gary Weiss, are writing for the site. 
 Business Journals struck out with other Portfolio journalists, like the media writer Jeff Bercovici, who was already talking to AOL. ''There were several that we tried to bring back on board, but they'd found other opportunities,'' Mr. Bradbury said.
 Looking at the site on Friday, when some but not all of the new content was available, Mitch Free, an entrepreneur and the chief executive of manufacturing marketplace MFG.com in Atlanta, said he was not drawn to it as a reader. ''I think it's more of the same,'' he said.
 But, as Mr. Bradbury said, with typical understatement, ''It's a start.''
 ''Flying under the radar, we don't do everything with a splash,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: J. Jennings Moss, editor of Portfolio.com, which is being reinvented as helpful and earnest under the ownership of American City Business Journals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN PHOTOGRAPHY)
 An image from the new Portfolio.com site, which will try to offer more resources for local businesspeople across the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); WEB SITES (73%)

COMPANY: PUGET SOUND BUSINESS JOURNAL INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (76%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



190 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM OTTAWA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Gun Control Issue Reveals a Changing Canada

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Like public health care, Canada's tight gun-control laws help distinguish the country from its powerful neighbor to the south. But as Canadians commemorated the 20th anniversary of one of the country's most notorious shooting sprees on Sunday, their Parliament was on course to eliminate one of its most significant gun-control measures.
 A long-gun registry, which requires the registration of rifles and shotguns, emerged largely from public revulsion over the massacre in 1989. 
 A decade before the Columbine high school shootings set off a national debate on gun violence in the United States, an angry, unemployed 25-year-old armed with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed the Ecole Polytechnique, an engineering school in Montreal. Shouting ''I hate feminists,'' the gunman separated the female students from the men and killed 14 women before killing himself. 
 The crime was the sort that, even then, most Canadians thought could happen only in the United States. The anniversary was observed Sunday, as it has been every year since, by ceremonies across the nation. In Montreal, hundreds of people linked arms around a park near the school and about 1,000 people attended a vigil at Notre-Dame Basilica.
 Parliament's response to the crime was passage of the long-gun registry, and few issues since have so divided rural and urban Canadians. The law's looming demise has revived the national debate over gun control and, with the wounds of 1989 still tender, raised deep questions about Canadian identity.
 ''Canada is suddenly changing into a place that loves guns and armies and war,'' said Gerald L. Caplan, a prominent academic and former campaign director of the liberal New Democratic Party. ''I don't know how we got there but I don't like it.''
 The law has been controversial since its approval in 1995, and there are competing theories as to why it suddenly appears doomed now. While Mr. Caplan cites a political shift signaled by the election of a Conservative government in 2006, many analysts credit an obscure Parliamentary maneuver by gun-control opponents that allowed them to assemble a voting majority.
 Perhaps most surprisingly, the debate has pitted the Conservative government, which generally promotes a law and order agenda and wants to get rid of the law, against the police, who resoundingly favor keeping it. Arguments on both sides have been emotional, with opponents of the law adopting what Canadians consider to be American-style personal attack ads against gun-control advocates.
 ''This is so vicious, it's amazing,'' said Suzanne Laplante-Edward, whose 21-year-old daughter, Anne-Marie, was killed in the Montreal shooting. ''The gun-control law is a monument erected to the memory of our daughters.''
 The current debate does not involve handguns, whose registration has been required since 1934. Nor does it involve a variety of military-style weapons like assault rifles and sawed-off shotguns, which are banned outright. And the law's repeal would not alter the requirement that gun buyers take safety courses and obtain a license. 
 But what it would do is hotly contested.
 The current law requires the registration of the weapons themselves, rifle and shotguns, which account for 6.7 million of Canada's 7.4 million registered guns, according to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
 Many police forces say that registry data, which they consulted 3.4 million times last year, prevents killings by allowing them to seize guns from homes where serious domestic disputes have been reported. 
 And many police officials warn that without mandatory registration, their officers will lose the ability to seize illegal guns found in the possession of criminal suspects. William Blair, the Toronto police chief and president of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, said that information from the registry allowed his force to seize 58 illegal guns in October alone.
 Killings involving guns have declined significantly since the gun registry began but it is unclear how much of that the registry is responsible for. Homicide rates have been dropping in Canada since the 1970s. And the registry itself, delayed for years by bureaucratic and software problems, has been operational for only a few years, limiting the data available for analysis.
 Many recreational hunters, farmers and Native Canadians who hunt for food consider the law a useless and intrusive burden. ''From the beginning and still today, the feeling has been that it's going to do absolutely nothing about reducing crime,'' said Dale R. Garnham, the president of the Manitoba Wildlife Federation, a hunting and fishing group, who added that his members have felt ''unduly harassed'' by the registration process, which is similar to applying for a passport. 
 Greg Farrant, a lobbyist for the Ontario Federation of Hunters and Anglers, said that gun license records are sufficient for the police to determine if guns are likely to be in, say, a home that is about to be raided. And, like many critics, he cites the cost of the registry, nearly $1 billion to set up, as a reason to dismantle it. 
 Previous efforts to abolish the registry were defeated because the Conservative government did not have enough votes to pass the bill alone and the registry had the support of all opposition parties. But the current bill has won two preliminary votes, exploiting a procedure that in certain cases frees opposition members from the requirement of voting along party lines. 
 The government waged an advertising campaign in rural areas represented by opposition parties, and in the end, eight Liberals and 12 New Democrats voted with the government at the bill's second reading. 
 Early next year, the bill will begin the process toward a third and final reading. While opposition leaders could change course and demand that all their members vote against it, observers on both sides expect it to pass.
 And in one more way, Canada will resemble its larger neighbor.
 ''While Canada has not always been perfect on not having a gun culture or not being at war, it was on the whole a handsome, different kind of reality,'' Mr. Caplan said. ''I'm guessing there is still more support for the old values out there than the political elite reflects, but that may have slipped.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Women gathered in Montreal on Sunday, 20 years after a shooting rampage that left 14 women dead at a college. The Canadian Parliament's response to the killings was a long-gun registry, which requires registration of rifles and shotguns.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (95%); SHOOTINGS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FIREARMS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); APPROVALS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (68%); LIBERALISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CARE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (93%) QUEBEC, CANADA (93%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



191 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 289 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include consumer credit for October (Monday); wholesale inventories for October (Wednesday); the trade deficit for October (Thursday); and retail sales for November, import prices for November, the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey and business inventories for October (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from H&R Block, Kroger and Talbots (Tuesday); and Costco Wholesale and Smithfield Foods (Thursday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks at the Economic Club of Washington (Monday).
 President Obama speaks about the economy at the Brookings Institution (Tuesday).
 The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing on the private sector and government response to the mortgage foreclosure crisis (Tuesday).
 House legislation on financial reforms is expected to reach the floor (Wednesday).
 A House Financial Services subcommittee conducts a hearing on reforms to the Securities Investor Protection Act (Wednesday).
 The House Budget Committee conducts a hearing on the effect of the recession and the recovery act on the social safety net (Wednesday).
 The Senate Judiciary Committee conducts a hearing on mortgage and securities fraud (Wednesday).
 The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on creating jobs in the recession (Wednesday).
 A Senate Finance subcommittee conducts a hearing on exports and their role in an economic recovery (Wednesday).
 ET CETERA The United Nations climate summit meeting opens in Copenhagen (Monday).
 The board of Bank of America meets in Charlotte, N.C., to discuss hiring a successor to Kenneth D. Lewis, above, as chief executive (Tuesday).
 Time Warner is to spin off AOL (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); FORECLOSURE (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (58%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); COST (NASDAQ) (58%); HRB (NYSE) (57%); SFD (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); KENNETH D LEWIS (55%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (65%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



192 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Rights and Health Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''A Pregnant Pause'' (Week in Review, Nov. 29) gives an incredibly accurate picture of the generation gap on abortion rights, one that I had trouble understanding until I read your article.
 I am nearing 70. In 1962, as a married lady of 20 with one more year of college to go for my degree, our birth control failed. I was pregnant. We were frantic. My husband and I were barely surviving financially, and we were struggling to support ourselves. If we could have supported a child, we would not have been using birth control. 
 We had a friend, a veterinarian, who offered to help us. I climbed onto the dog table, weeping, my husband holding my hand. After the procedure I hemorrhaged and we rushed to the emergency room. I told them the story, just leaving out how the hemorrhaging started, and they classified it as a ''spontaneous abortion.''
 Our lives went on, we're still happily married, and we have two successful adult children. But as I watch the assault on reproductive rights, my heart is still filled with dread, and my memory returns to that morning on the dog table. 
 I hope no young woman ever has to handle her reproductive choice as I was forced to. They can make any law they want to make, but they can never make a woman have a baby. We will do what we have to do, and for today's young, access to abortion must remain safe, affordable and legal.
 Barbara Russakov Anaheim Hills, Calif., Nov. 29, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I guess folks in the 19th century thought slavery was a personal choice, not a political issue. But those people were proved very wrong. Just because someone is a different color or from a different culture or is just beginning to form a life, that someone has a right to live and grow in freedom with all the dignity of a human being. 
 Abortion is a social issue, as well as a moral issue. No one religion can claim it as its own.
 Embarrassment from an unplanned pregnancy or economic hardship -- are these really reasons to choose to end a life?
 Maureen Spieth Brooklyn, Nov. 29, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''False Alarm on Abortion,'' by Phillip B. Levine (Op-Ed, Nov. 25):
 Mr. Levine dismisses talk about the potential impact of the Stupak amendment as an exaggeration of what would change for women. Eighty-seven percent of employer-based health plans currently provide coverage for abortion care. If the Stupak amendment or equally restrictive language were included in the final version of the health care reform bill, millions of women could risk losing their coverage. 
 No woman plans to have an abortion. The individual circumstances for this choice are as varied as the women themselves; fetal anomalies, health risks and spousal abuse do not discriminate based on age, income or insurance status. 
 Likewise, Mr. Levine's contention that nothing would change for uninsured women or women covered by Medicaid does little to advance his argument. Restrictions on public funding for abortion are one of the biggest barriers to women seeking abortion care. Just because these restrictions are already in place does not mean that further limitations should be accepted. 
 Meaningful reform of health care cannot take place by sacrificing the well-being of half of the citizens of this country.
 Vicki Saporta President and Chief Executive National Abortion Federation Washington, Nov. 30, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Thank you for publishing ''False Alarm on Abortion,'' by Phillip B. Levine. Finally, someone is approaching the Stupak amendment with rationality and a calculated sense for women's health, rather than with ideology and vitriol.
 Health care for all and better health care in general inevitably mean tangible benefits for women's reproductive health. If the only way we can get to this desired state is through compromising on an issue that, in reality, will have marginal effects, if any, on women's reproductive health, then it is a worthy sacrifice.
 Ari Gerstman Alexandria, Va., Nov. 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In a commentary filled with statistics, there is one critical measure that Phillip B. Levine did not mention: one in three American women will have an abortion in her lifetime.
 That means when we talk about health care reform and abortion, we are talking about a sister, a friend, a loved one who has faced this decision. And for her, the statistics don't mean that much.
 So I would ask Mr. Levine to look that woman in the eye and tell her that it doesn't matter if she loses her coverage. Tell her that the promise of health care reform -- that nobody would lose coverage -- was for everyone else.
 Kelli Conlin President, National Institute for Reproductive Health New York, Nov. 25, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON FRESHWATER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); WOMEN (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (83%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); CONTRACEPTION (78%); MISCARRIAGES (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



193 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Secret's Out: Sample Sales Move Online

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER and JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Daniela Busciglio still winces at the memory of shivering in line for hours to get into New York sample sales, then shoving her way through throngs of other shoppers looking for deals on designer clothes. 
 But now the mobs are moving online, to sites like Gilt, Rue La La, One Kings Lane, Ideeli and HauteLook. On the Web, the shopping is just as competitive, but it is no longer a blood sport. 
 ''Who wants to go to sample sales with lines out the door and girls scratching to get in?'' said Ms. Busciglio, 27, now a graduate student at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 
 Online, she said, ''I can take my time and not have to worry about people getting up in my face.'' 
 The private-sale sites -- a misnomer because most of these so-called exclusive sites are open to anyone who signs up -- have become a thriving corner of online commerce. Sites using the same ''while supplies last'' approach have sprung up recently to sell home furnishings, beauty products and travel packages. 
 The business model is simple: the sites buy mostly overstocked clothing and accessories from brand-name designers, then discount them deeply. Adrenaline-pumped shoppers rush to get the deals because the items are often gone in a few hours. 
 The sites try to recreate the rush of a warehouse sample sale, minus the trampling and shoving, but they borrow as much from the Home Shopping Network as they do from Saks Fifth Avenue. After shoppers add an item to their cart at Gilt, for example, they get a 10-minute countdown before they lose the item. 
 For Matthew Rodriguez, 29, a Web marketer and Gilt shopper, the sales turn shopping into a game. ''Knowing the sales start every day at noon makes me really competitive to get an item before someone else gets it,'' he said. He recently bought a pair of Clae white patent leather sneakers for $38 on Gilt. They can sell for as much as $135 in retail stores. 
 More mainstream retailers are also adopting the idea. Saks, for example, is holding 24-hour half-price sales on brands like Herve Leger. 
 Others are using the idea for holiday promotions. On the Monday after Thanksgiving, a big online shopping day known as Cyber Monday, Ashford, which sells luxury brand watches, discounted a different watch every two hours on its site. Blue Nile, the jewelry site, is offering a different deal every day until Dec. 23. 
 By discounting one item at a time, the retailers attract bargain-seekers and avoid the deep discounting done storewide last year, thereby protecting their profit margins. By 3:10 p.m. on Cyber Monday, Blue Nile had sold out of a five-carat diamond bracelet, marked down to $3,950 from $5,300. 
 One of the buyers, Dan Stanley of Falls Church, Va., said that he had not heard of private sales before and that for four days, he had been shopping for a bracelet for his wife. He bought it on the spot. ''The 'one day' caught my eye, and I wouldn't have risked it,'' Mr. Stanley said. 
 Private-sale sites are attracting brand-name investors. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm that backed Google and Amazon.com, invested on Wednesday in One Kings Lane, which sells home decor. Gilt Groupe raised $55 million from Matrix Partners and General Atlantic, and Rue La La's parent company was recently acquired by GSI Commerce for $180 million. 
 The concept seems tailored to recessionary times. Any guilt that consumers feel over spending thousands of dollars on unnecessary items can be replaced by bragging rights for finding a killer bargain, like a $4,500 diamond necklace that was recently on sale for $2,250 at Gilt. 
 ''We started this at the worst possible time and got traction right out of the box,'' said Susan Feldman, a founder of One Kings Lane. People still want to shop, but in the privacy of their homes, she said. ''They just don't want to be seen walking down the street carrying a Bloomingdale's or Barneys or Bergdorf bag.'' 
 It works for the fashion industry, too, because as the economy slumped, stores deeply cut inventory, which left some designers with excess stock, depending on their production calendars. Some high-end brands view the sites as a place to unload inventory without sullying their image by having their merchandise appear on Overstock.com or on the racks at Filene's Basement. The members-only Web sites also ensure that search engines will not locate and list the discounted products. 
 Juliska sells its full-price tableware, like a $625 stoneware soup tureen, at luxury department stores like Neiman Marcus. It sells off-season products on One Kings Lane, Gilt and Rue La La. 
 Selling those items at T. J. Maxx, as some of Juliska's competitors do, ''is suicide for a luxury brand,'' said Dave Gooding, the company's chief executive. ''With flash sales, you have the beauty of it being a one-day sale that is done in a very quick, efficient, tastefully done way, as an alternative to your product sitting on a dusty shelf for six months.'' 
 For shoppers, the sites provide a selection of items, akin to a boutique, so they do not have to wade through the thousands of items on bigger e-commerce sites. 
 Swirl, a private-sale site that went live on Nov. 19, is betting on the allure of a handpicked collection. It was started by DailyCandy, which publishes e-mail newsletters about fashionable activities in various cities. 
 The company's reputation for pointing readers to up-and-coming designers will help differentiate its sample sale site, said Dany Levy, DailyCandy's founder and editorial director. ''They trust us, and they know we've done our homework,'' she said. 
 But private-sale sites could run into trouble as manufacturers and stores cut back on inventory. ''The universe of what's overstock is not an infinite universe,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, an e-commerce analyst at Forrester. 
 To maintain their growth, many of the sites have recently expanded beyond high-end, overstocked apparel. 
 Ideeli sells spa and vacation packages in addition to clothes, and One Kings Lane has avoided clothes altogether. Gilt now sells gadgets, like a Tivoli radio and a Jawbone wireless headset, and offers products for men, children, the home and younger women with smaller budgets. Gilt also started a site called Jetsetter that sells travel deals, like a room at the Hotel de Crillon in Paris marked down to $500, from $795. 
 Susan Lyne, Gilt's chief executive, said that as long as people coveted something, they would be eager for a deal. ''Gilt and these other shopping sites allow people to do the thing that gives them pleasure, without all that guilt,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dany Levy, DailyCandy's founder and editorial director, left, and Eve Epstein choosing items to photograph for a sample sale.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BRANDING (87%); THANKSGIVING (84%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); FINE JEWELRY (63%)

COMPANY: IDEELI INC (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



194 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Suozzi Campaign Failed, but Has $2 Million Left

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
A campaign war chest that is still well stocked after a lost election is normally lined with regrets or padded for the future. For Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, both may apply. 
 Mr. Suozzi, who ran for governor in 2006, officially conceded the election for county executive last week to a virtual unknown, Edward P. Mangano. 
 Mr. Mangano, a Republican, won by 386 votes. But the more surprising number? The $2.05 million that Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat, left in the bank, according to a post-election filing released last week. 
 It was not as though Mr. Suozzi had shut down his campaign after the summer: He spent $1.64 million in the four months leading up to the election, compared with the $623,000 that Mr. Mangano spent. And polls showed Mr. Suozzi with a comfortable lead. 
 But by leaving such a surplus, Mr. Suozzi underscored the notion that the campaign had miscalculated how close the race was, and invited suggestions that he had intentionally left money to campaign for a higher office. 
 ''If I try and think of all the different things I could have done, I'll probably drive myself crazy,'' Mr. Suozzi said in an interview on Thursday. ''We spent the amount of money we thought we needed to spend.''
 As for the unused campaign money, he said that he intended to ''hold on to it for a while and hopefully use it for another race some day.''
 Mr. Suozzi, 47, was hardly the only incumbent in the November elections who failed to address the voters' pre-election despondency and anger over the economy. Longtime officeholders lost their seats around the nation, and even those who had seemingly insurmountable leads going into the polls found themselves in tight races. 
 In New York City, for example, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg spent a staggering $102 million to win by fewer than five percentage points. 
 ''Just like Bloomberg had to spend a fortune to win, sometimes you do have to spend money,'' said Judy Jacobs, a Nassau County legislator. ''When people are angry, when people are hurting, you have to clarify the message.'' 
 She added: ''We don't build a war chest and say, 'I'm going to be left with money.' ''
 Mr. Suozzi sent six mailings, appeared on radio programs during commuter rush hours, made live and robo-calls, and spent more than $700,000 in television ads alone. 
 ''I don't think you measure the success by how much money you spend,'' said Jay Jacobs, the Democratic Party chairman of Nassau County. ''It's not as though Tom ran a lean campaign; he was just a voracious fund-raiser.''
 Mr. Suozzi said he was well aware of concerns over property taxes, and said he had talked to voters ''every single day of my life for the last 16 years.'' 
 Yet Mr. Jacobs acknowledged, ''I think we could have found more opportunities to get Tom and others directly in front of small groups.''
 Perhaps in the back of voters' minds, however, was Mr. Suozzi's failed Democratic gubernatorial bid in 2006, when he lost the primary election to Eliot Spitzer. 
 ''It just looks like Nassau is on the back burner,'' said Kevan Abrahams, a county legislator who campaigned alongside Mr. Suozzi and was re-elected. ''That is the perception, but not the reality.''
 Perceptions tend to hold sway among the electorate, however. ''The discussions of his statewide future and ambitions distracted from his real accomplishments,'' said Robert P. Zimmerman, a member of the Democratic National Committee.
 To thank his supporters, Mr. Suozzi is giving a holiday party at the Garden City Hotel, asking each guest for a token $50 donation, with the proceeds going to charity. 
 It will not increase the Friends of Tom Suozzi surplus. Election laws allow Mr. Suozzi to donate money to other candidates, pay for a future campaign, or form a political action committee, which he said he would probably do. He declined to detail his political future.
 ''I have no plans right now,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, spent $1.64 million over four months, while his opponent spent $623,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); GOVERNORS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



195 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: An Elegant Home Away From Home For Republicans in Albany

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
One recent evening, after business at the Capitol had wound down for the day, the Tap Room of the genteel Fort Orange Club slowly filled up with members of New York's Republican establishment.
 Dean G. Skelos, the Senate Republican leader, settled into a comfortable corner booth with members of his senior staff and the deputy Republican leader, Thomas W. Libous. John Faso, the party's 2006 nominee for governor, sat a few tables away. Other Republican senators joined them as the night wore on.
 Oysters Rockefeller and Dover sole were on the menu, served by waitresses in French maid frocks. The entertainment, a cabaret singer who was taking time away from her usual spot at the Algonquin Hotel in Manhattan, had just finished performing in the club's living room. 
 With their party out of power, Republicans may find their status diminished in Albany these days. But inside the Fort Orange Club -- an elegantly restored brick mansion that serves as a home away from home for many Republicans during legislative sessions in the capital -- the good life never stopped.
 The Fort Orange Club, an institution about as old as the Capitol building, was founded in 1880 because, as the club's founding fathers wrote in a letter to prospective gentlemen members on Jan. 29, 1880, ''a club, commensurate with the character and importance of Albany, is an urgent want.''
 Since then, governors, Court of Appeals judges, senators and other members of Albany's upper crust have joined the Fort Orange -- all of them men until 1989, when, after much prodding from outsiders, the club finally started admitting ''gentlewomen.'' Today, they make up around 12 percent of the 500-plus members.
 Democrats have found the club somewhat intimidating.
 ''When I was a kid, Democrats didn't stay at the Fort Orange,'' said David L. Lewis, a lawyer for Senate Republicans who recalled visiting Albany as a young man with his father, Albert B. Lewis, a Democratic state senator in the late 1960s and '70s and member of the Hugh Carey administration. ''It just didn't work out that way.'' 
 Though the club has had its share of Democrats as members -- Franklin D. Roosevelt and Benjamin N. Cardozo among them -- its sumptuous wood-paneled parlors and high-ceilinged dining rooms remain the domain of Republicans, a place where they come to socialize, dine and conduct business outside the prying eyes of the many lobbyists, reporters and legislative staffers who flock to Albany during legislative sessions.
 ''No one bothers you there,'' said Senator William J. Larkin Jr., a retired Army colonel and Fort Orange member since 1983. Mr. Larkin eats most of his meals at the club when he is in Albany and spends his nights in a first-floor room there, one of 22 reserved for members and their guests to sleep in.
 ''For me, it's the convenience of it,'' Mr. Larkin added. ''It's right next door. You don't have to drive anywhere.'' Mr. Larkin, 81, noted that his walk to work in the morning is a few easy steps out the club's back door and into the adjacent Alfred E. Smith office building, where a tunnel leads to the first floor of the Capitol.
 He, often dines with Senator Owen H. Johnson, 80, another longtime Fort Orange member who also stays at the club when he is in Albany. Says Mr. Johnson, ''It's not really any big deal, other than the convenience of it.''
 The Fort Orange has also been a place where Republicans raise -- and spend -- money. An analysis of campaign finance reports conducted by the New York Public Interest Research Group showed that the club had hosted at least 28 fund-raisers since June -- almost all of them for Republican legislators.
 Between January 2007 and July this year, political committees spent nearly $230,000 at the club. The biggest single spender was Mr. Skelos's election committee, which dropped $24,443 at the club during that time, the analysis showed.
 Mr. Skelos, 61, a Fort Orange member since 1996, is so fond of the club that he has a watercolor painting of it hanging in his office in the Capitol.
 Though some in Albany consider the club a bit elitist and stodgy (it is jokingly referred to as the ''Wax Museum'' because of the advanced ages of many of its members), Fort Orange loyalists insist it is an egalitarian, even progressive, establishment.
 Its annual dues are around $1,000 a year for nonresidents of Albany; residents pay more. New members are charged an initiation fee, though the club's general manager, James M. Flaherty, insists it is nowhere near the tens of thousands of dollars that many country clubs charge. (Given the state of the economy, Mr. Flaherty said, there is not currently a waiting list.)
 The Fort Orange, Mr. Flaherty said, places great emphasis on its traditions but understands that the club has to be flexible or risk becoming irrelevant.
 It recently committed $4.75 million to build a fitness center and even relaxed its formal dress code. A jacket and tie are no longer required in the Tap Room, a dark, wood-paneled grill just off the main dining room, where lighter fare is served. 
 Last month, the club made a historic acquisition for the Tap Room: a 58-inch plasma television. ''But you can never watch it,'' Mr. Flaherty said. ''It's not for casual viewing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The dining room, left, at the Fort Orange Club, which was founded in 1880 in a restored brick mansion, center. At right, the club's living room, where entertainers perform.
 Dan Smith, a bartender, has worked at the Fort Orange Club since 1975. The club has more than 500 members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); LAWYERS (66%); JUDGES (64%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



196 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Forecasts Smaller Loss From Bailout

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department expects to recover all but $42 billion of the $370 billion it has lent to ailing companies since the financial crisis began last year, with the portion lent to banks actually showing a slight profit, according to a new Treasury report. 
 The new assessment of the $700 billion bailout program, provided by two Treasury officials on Sunday ahead of a report to Congress on Monday, is vastly improved from the Obama administration's estimates last summer of $341 billion in potential losses from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. That figure anticipated more financial troubles requiring intervention. 
 The officials said the government could ultimately lose $100 billion more from the bailout program in new loans to banks, aid to troubled homeowners and credit to small businesses. 
 Still, the new estimates would lower the administration's deficit forecast for this fiscal year, which began in October, to about $1.3 trillion, from $1.5 trillion. 
 The report could tamp down some of the public anger directed against both parties over the bailouts. Congressional leaders are already planning to use some of the program's money for economic stimulus and job creation.
 Of course, the government's potential losses extend beyond the Treasury program. The Federal Reserve, for example, still holds a trillion-dollar portfolio of mortgage-backed securities whose market value is unknown. 
 The improved picture of the Treasury program is the result of higher-than-expected returns on the loans and the fact that, as the financial sector has recovered from its free fall last year, the government has not had to use much more of its $700 billion in lending authority this year, according to the Treasury officials, who declined to be identified as discussing the report before it was presented to Congress.
 Last week, Bank of America became the latest big bank to say that it was raising private capital and would soon repay its $45 billion bailout loan. Once that payment is made, Citigroup will be the last big bank tethered to the state.
 The estimated $42 billion in losses is a net figure that accounts for some profits to offset the losses. The Treasury officials said the government had lost about $60 billion, roughly half to Chrysler and General Motors and the other half to the insurance giant American International Group. 
 But the government is projecting a $19 billion profit and perhaps more on the $245 billion lent to banks, through interest, dividends and the sale of warrants the government received as collateral.
 Aside from the rare good news for the federal deficit, the latest bailout accounting could have political and legislative ramifications. 
 Politically, the Treasury program has been unpopular ever since it was created in October 2008 by former President George W. Bush and a Congress controlled by Democrats. It has grown only more reviled over time as a symbol for many Americans of the government's perceived favoritism toward Wall Street, which is making money, over Main Street, which continues to struggle and shed jobs.
 An anti-Washington anger is disturbing both parties as they approach a midterm election year, and some Republican lawmakers have drawn primary opponents largely because of their votes last year in favor of the bailout program. 
 It was unclear how that climate might be altered as taxpayers realize they did not actually lose $700 billion to help big banks. At most, the Treasury officials said, the ultimate losses will be one-fifth of that amount and probably less.
 Democrats in Congress have already decided to divert about $70 billion from what is left in the bailout fund to the cost of additional road-building and other construction projects, credit to small businesses and further aid to state and local governments.
 The administration had wanted to dedicate unspent bailout money to the deficit but signaled to Congressional leaders late last week that it would not oppose their plans. President Obama is expected to touch on those ideas and others in an economic speech on Tuesday. 
 The bailout program is due to expire at the end of the year, but the Treasury has indicated it will use the authority it was granted by Congress to extend it into 2010. 
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, testified last week to a Senate committee that ''nothing would make me happier than to end this as quickly as possible,'' but he added, ''we're not quite there yet.''
 Mr. Geithner, who has become the administration's lightning rod for anger among both liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans, said ''there are parts of the system that are still very damaged'' -- in banking, housing, commercial real estate and credit-starved small businesses.
 He said the administration would propose within weeks when and how to end the program safely.
 At that hearing, he hinted at the Treasury's improved forecast for the program, saying ''we're going to be able to return very, very substantial amounts of money to address the critical economic needs, long-term fiscal needs, of this country.''
 That prediction contrasts with the administration's planning soon after Mr. Obama took office in January. Fearing that additional bank failures could exhaust the entire $700 billion fund, they proposed up to $500 billion more in federal lending authority in the administration's first budget in February.
 Instead, just $7 billion more in bailout money has gone out to banks since Mr. Obama became president, making a second loan authorization unnecessary. Meanwhile, banks have raised 16 times as much, $114 billion, in private capital, according to the Treasury.
 Since the Treasury subjected big banks to ''stress tests'' last winter to determine how much private capital they must raise to withstand future financial shocks, the financial institutions have been eager to do so, in order to repay the government and thereby exit the Treasury's rescue program -- not least to escape the restrictions on executive compensation that come with it.
 Mr. Geithner now says that banks will repay $175 billion by the end of next year. To date, counting Bank of America's promised payment, banks have repaid $116 billion, according to the Treasury. Also, in coming weeks the Treasury will sell more of the government's bank warrants to investors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The bank bailout has been unpopular since it was created in October 2008 by former President George W. Bush and Congress.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Treasury officials said the government had lost roughly $30 billion to the insurance giant American International Group.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); INSURANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



197 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Tweaking the Big-Money Art World on Its Own Turf

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
William Powhida unfurled his unfinished drawing in a corner booth at the Pulse Art Fair, a satellite to the main event of Art Basel Miami Beach that ended on Sunday. 
 His satirical vision, and that of his collaborator, Jade Townsend: the flashy Art Basel fair as a Hooverville. Soup lines crammed with artists and gallery owners in chunky glasses, curators dressed like prostitutes selling their expertise for $50 a trick -- all in the parking lot outside the fortresslike Miami Beach Convention Center, where the main fair takes place and where the richest galleries and artists tend to show. 
 ''The bubble never burst, it just got smaller,'' Mr. Powhida, 33, said, standing over the poster-size drawing. ''For the people on the outside the oxygen ran out.''
 Put another way, he said, ''this is about how out of touch the art world is with economic reality.'' 
 Income disparities and class, many in the art world say, are subjects that get short shrift in the contemporary art represented at shows like this one, which cater largely to rich collectors. Over the last two years the Great Recession has seemed almost entirely absent from the thousands of works at Art Basel Miami Beach and most of its offshoots. With a few exceptions -- usually art depicting consumerism or the dollar in various forms -- the largest economic shock in decades and its fallout seem to have gotten little play at the nation's most comprehensive contemporary art extravaganza. 
 Mr. Powhida (pronounced pow-HIGH-da), who lives in Brooklyn, stands out here not only because he is one of the few artists to regularly address these issues, but because he takes them on in the context of this very world. Though he is unassuming in person, he has become known as something of a gadfly in the art establishment, with work that uses humorous text, draftsmanship and careful painting to lampoon some of its biggest stars and institutions.
 Last month he drew attention with a drawing that ran on the cover of The Brooklyn Rail, a journal of art and politics, that examined -- and attacked -- the controversial decision by the New Museum of Contemporary Art to devote a show to the private art collection of one of its trustees. The drawing portrayed the show as cronyism, a charge the museum has denied. It described the trustee, Dakis Joannou, as an ''appointer beneficiary,'' while Jeff Koons, the superstar artist who is curator of the show and heavily collected by Mr. Joannou, was drawn as a puppet -- specifically Howdy Doody.
 David W. Kiehl, a curator at the Whitney Museum of American Art, described Mr. Powhida's work as ''sort of a visual, editorial cartoon.'' 
 ''He is talking about things that are under cover,'' said Mr. Kiehl, adding that he owns several of Mr. Powhida's pieces. ''Things people don't want to talk about.''
 Mr. Powhida's growing reputation as something between a comedian and a vigilante holds a special challenge: How does an artist who skewers the art market as feudal and celebrity-obsessed deal with his own emerging fame, and the increasing likelihood of rubbing shoulders with the subjects he targets?
 ''There are a lot of contradictions,'' he said.
 At the time he was strolling through the convention center, or as he calls it, ''the belly of the beast.'' Passing works by Mr. Koons and other top earners, Mr. Powhida moved in jerky motions, like a driver unsure whether his car is in first gear or reverse. His body language seemed to ask: Fight or flee?
 First he admired. ''Is that a Guston?'' he said, racing into the McKee Gallery booth, in cargo shorts and a T-shirt to look at an abstract gray-and-white painting by Philip Guston. Later he found inspiration in the presence of a painting by a fellow Brooklynite, Joyce Pensato, who toiled in obscurity for decades.
 ''I don't want to blow this place up,'' Mr. Powhida said, admitting that he would love to see his own art here as opposed to at Pulse, where his work appeared this year. ''A lot of us go back and forth about wanting to destroy this model, and wanting to support it.''
 What bothers Mr. Powhida and several others in the art world who declined to be named for fear of offending wealthy collectors is the pre-eminence of money at the expense of work that challenges the artistic and economic status quo. Mr. Powhida described the convention center as a mall for ''condo art'' -- polished works by recognizable names that are the equivalent of a BMW or a Bentley in the driveway. 
 Mr. Powhida is not comfortable in this world. He was reared in upstate New York by a single mother who paid the bills with a government job, and he has earned his own living for the past decade as an art teacher in some of the toughest public high schools in Brooklyn. He said his artwork brought in only about $50,000 over the past three years, and that he was still repaying his undergraduate loans from Syracuse University.
 ''What I'm expressing is colored by a deep sense of lack,'' Mr. Powhida said. His persona in his art is far more crass than he is, but friends sometimes have to protect him from letting too much anger show through. At one point Jennifer Dalton, who collaborated with Mr. Powhida last year on condolence cards for Art Basel -- with lines like ''all good things come to an end'' -- stopped him from cracking jokes about the obvious cosmetic enhancements of a collector who happened to love his work.
 And inside the convention center he often seemed repulsed by what he saw: the Jeff Koons painting that he said was probably produced by one of that artist's 120 assistants; the titillation in a Lisa Yuskavage painting, placed on the edge of a booth to draw people in; the art dealers in Corbusier leather chairs.
 Sara Fitzmaurice, a spokeswoman for Art Basel Miami Beach, said the annual fair brings attention to a wide range of artists, includes numerous free events and serves ''40,000 art lovers at all levels.''
 Jeffrey Deitch, founder of the high-profile New York gallery Deitch Projects, which sponsored a murals project here in addition to its booth, argued that the show's slick commercialism and the emphasis on celebrity artists simply reflected a broader shift. He described it as ''the collapse between the avant-garde and mainstream pop culture.'' 
 He added: ''What's happening is that there is this completely new audience of young people who are coming to art in the way they used to come to rock music or hip-hop. That's a very positive thing.''
 Mr. Powhida questioned the premise. Standing at the Deitch booth, staring at this year's most discussed item, an equestrian portrait of Michael Jackson by Kehinde Wiley, he called Mr. Deitch ''a drug dealer in an ice-cream truck.''
 ''It's about selling what you can,'' Mr. Powhida said, noting that after years of framing anonymous every-day African-American men with classical grandeur, Mr. Wiley may end up being known for celebrating the King of Pop. ''I kind of want to laugh at it,'' Mr. Powhida said. ''But it's going to sell for an obscene amount of money.'' 
 On Saturday Mr. Deitch said the portrait had sold for $160,000 to a private museum in Europe. And he smiled at Mr. Powhida's critique. ''The irony is that by exposing art celebrity culture, he's becoming a celebrity himself,'' he said of Mr. Powhida. ''So hats off to him.''
 Sincere or not, Mr. Powhida's usual scene looks quite different. One night during the fair he met up with friends at an ''art burning'' down the block from the Rubell Family Collection/Contemporary Arts Foundation, a museum owned and operated by a wealthy Miami family. About a dozen artists, bloggers and critics -- the outsiders of Mr. Powhida's imagined Hooverville -- gathered in a parking lot to toss failed canvases onto a Weber grill while drinking Budweiser. ''It's the zeitgeist,'' said someone in the dark. ''Destruction and rebuilding.''
 But no one there seemed confident that the art world was interested in such change. With collectors starting to spend again at recent art fairs and auctions, even these outsiders predicted that artists and dealers would do whatever they could to prop up the market. 
 ''There is a wish that it would go back to what it was,'' Mr. Powhida said, referring to what he saw as a general desire to return to the exuberance of a few years ago. ''It ignores the reality that a lot of people are really struggling.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A detail of ''ABMB Hooverville,'' by William Powhida and Jade Townsend, at the Pulse Art Fair, is a satirical look at Art Basel Miami Beach.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL F. MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
A small detail of Mr. Powhida's painting ''Sellout.''
 William Powhida, an artist from Brooklyn, who goes against the grain at Art Basel Miami Beach.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL F. MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); CELEBRITIES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



198 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: US Airways to Pull Shuttle Crews From La Guardia and Boston

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Over the strenuous objections of its pilots, US Airways is proceeding with its plan to eliminate more than 250 jobs at La Guardia Airport, which has long been the nexus of the airline's shuttle service in the Northeast.
 The pilots' union, the US Airline Pilots Association, is considering taking its plea to passengers as early as this week by warning the airline's customers at La Guardia of potential risks to the shuttle's once-vaunted reliability, Capt. James Ray, a spokesman for the union in Charlotte, N.C., said in an interview. Under US Airways' plan, none of the crews and planes used for the shuttle routes between La Guardia and Boston and Washington will be based at La Guardia or Boston Logan Airport by the middle of next year. 
 ''There's no way they can continue the reliability of that product, basing the equipment and personnel in another city,'' Captain Ray said. Bad weather in Philadelphia or Washington could hamper the airline's ability to deliver planes and crews to La Guardia or Logan, Captain Ray added.
 Morgan Durrant, a spokesman for the airline, disputed Captain Ray's assertions and said that the decision to close the bases was final.
 ''The decisions to do all these things are borne out of the need to get the company profitable again,'' Mr. Durrant said. ''We're confident we can continue to be reliable. The nice thing about our operation is that if we're in a pinch and we need a crew, we can fairly quickly get a crew in place.''
 But doing so will be more of a challenge after the crew bases close. The changes at La Guardia will eliminate 261 jobs there, according to a notice US Airways filed with the state's Labor Department. Some of those jobs will be transferred to other cities, but Mr. Durrant said it was too soon to say how many.
 The airline plans to close its crew base in New York at the end of January and its base in Boston in early May, leaving the employees to find jobs at other US Airways hubs, like Philadelphia or Charlotte. The plan to close the bases is a result of US Airways' agreement to swap many of its takeoff and landing rights at La Guardia with Delta Airlines for some of Delta's slots at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington. The pilots' union has asked the federal Department of Justice to review that deal, contending that it would be anti-competitive.
 US Airways also plans to switch the planes that fly between La Guardia and Logan from Airbus jets, which have 124 seats, to smaller regional jets known as Embraer 190s, which have 99 seats, arrayed in rows of two on each side of the aisle. 
 ''Business travelers hate regional jets,'' said Joe Brancatelli, editor of JoeSentMe, a Web site dedicated to air travel. ''The more you downsize the equipment, the more people feel it's not worth it to fly.''
 Mr. Brancatelli added that he did not see the US Airways shuttle or its competitor, the Delta shuttle, as a true shuttle service anymore. They no longer can be counted on to have a plane ready to depart every hour, and the walk-up price for a one-way ticket has soared to as much as $400, he said.
 Dependability has always been the main selling point of the US Airways shuttle, which until 1989 was operated by the now-defunct Eastern Airlines, then briefly flew as Donald Trump's Trump Shuttle before that venture failed. For years, the shuttle appealed to business travelers by offering hourly flights with reasonable walk-up fares and promising to roll out an additional plane if the first filled up.
 A lack of seats has not been a problem lately, as many of the shuttle flights are less than half-full. But one shuttle regular, Arthur Hogan, said on Friday that he had noticed fewer seats were going empty now than a year ago.
 ''It's a great barometer for economic activity,'' said Mr. Hogan, an executive with Jefferies & Company, a financial firm, who commutes from a Boston suburb to Manhattan every week. ''A year ago, the load factors were significantly lower and you could feel it.''
 Mr. Hogan, who usually flies on the Delta shuttle but occasionally chooses US Airways, said he would be concerned about the effect winter weather might have on the service if the crews and planes were based in another city.
 ''This time of year the one thing that cuts into their reliability is when you start getting weather,'' Mr. Hogan said. Any falloff in the shuttle's dependability, and more travelers like him will switch to the Amtrak Acela train service, which has been cutting into the shuttle ridership, he said.
 Still, Rick Seaney, the chief executive of FareCompare.com, a travel Web site, said some good could come from the US Airways changes. ''Maybe the silver lining is that nobody will have a middle seat anymore,'' Mr. Seaney said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); SPACE SHUTTLE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (73%); EMBRAER SA (60%); AIRBUS SAS (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (73%); ERJ (NYSE) (60%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (60%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



199 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Decide if Honest-Services Law Gives Prosecutors Too Much Discretion

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
An unusual coalition of groups has come together to criticize the federal government's increasing reliance on a statute that is commonly used but little understood: honest-services fraud. 
 The honest-services law, on the federal books since 1988, broadly requires that public and corporate officials act in the best interests of their constituents or employers. 
 It has become an important tool for federal prosecutors, who used it successfully against the lobbyist Jack Abramoff and many of his associates. It is an element of the cases against former Gov. Rod Blagojevich of Illinois; the former New York State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno; and former Gov. Donald E. Siegelman of Alabama.
 Prosecutors have described the law as a valuable instrument against corruption at a time when officials have become increasingly sophisticated at covering their tracks. 
 But critics say it is used too broadly, is applied inconsistently, and too often criminalizes behavior that fails to merit the full weight of federal prosecution. The Supreme Court will hear three cases concerning the honest-services law in this term, with two coming up for oral argument on Tuesday. 
 Opposition to use of the law has emerged from across the political spectrum, from the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Washington Legal Foundation on the right, to the more left-leaning National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. 
 ''Could an insincere sermon at Sunday religious services come within the statute?'' asked the chamber, half sarcastically, in a brief to the Supreme Court.
 Justice Antonin Scalia has been harshly critical of the honest-services law, writing in a recent dissent that it has been applied to ''a staggeringly broad swath of behavior.'' He said that it ''invites abuse by headline-grabbing prosecutors in pursuit of local officials, state legislators, and corporate C.E.O.s who engage in any manner of unappealing or ethically questionable conduct.''
 One of the two cases coming before the court next week involves Conrad M. Black, the newspaper executive who was convicted of defrauding his media company, Hollinger International. He is arguing that the law should not be applied to him because he did not contemplate ''economic harm'' to Hollinger. 
 In the second, Bruce Weyhrauch, a former Alaska state legislator, was convicted of failing to disclose a conflict of interest. He had not violated state law, however, and argues that the federal prosecution on honest-services charges violates important principles of federalism. 
 The third case, to be argued later in the term, involves Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron. He is arguing that the honest-services law is unconstitutionally vague.
 Melanie Sloan, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonprofit watchdog group, scoffed at the idea that the law is so vague that people do not know when they have crossed the line, especially in the three cases before the Supreme Court. 
 ''If you go to those cases -- Black, Skilling and Weyhrauch -- and look at what they did, a kindergartner knows that they were wrong,'' she said. ''It's not credible that those guys really had no idea that what they were doing would get them into trouble. What they thought was that they wouldn't get caught.''
 The watchdog group's brief to the Supreme Court called the law ''an indispensable weapon in the prosecutorial arsenal for fighting government corruption'' since it offers ''a much easier evidentiary burden'' than bribery law. 
 Critics of the law, however, say that its vagueness is used to bolster corruption cases in which the evidence might be weak or the offense, while perhaps distasteful, is minor. 
 That is the argument of Larry Remer, a political consultant in San Diego who faced multiple felony charges after successfully running a bond campaign for a community college. After the campaign was over, and the campaign fund depleted, a video production company sent in a bill for $5,800. The college president proposed paying the bill with public money, ostensibly by buying outtakes from the video company, though it is illegal to use public money for such a campaign.
 Federal prosecutors indicted Mr. Remer and the college president in 2004 on a range of charges related to the improper use of taxpayer money, including honest-services charges. Mr. Remer said he was baffled by the case. 
 ''I do understand the need to get the sleazebags,'' said Mr. Remer, whose case ended in a mistrial and a plea of guilty, along with the college president, to misdemeanor charges of improperly using public money, not honest-services charges. ''But let's get them with real laws. Let's not just say we need to get this guy, so we'll use this law because it can be melted to meet our needs.''
 The United States attorneys office in San Diego declined to comment on the case.
 The honest-services statute grew out of the Supreme Court's earlier attempts to rein in the widening use by prosecutors of mail and wire fraud laws, said John C. Coffee, a professor at Columbia Law School.
 In a landmark 1987 decision, the Supreme Court limited mail and wire fraud prosecutions to cases involving tangible goods like money and property, and not the ''intangible right'' of the people to good government. 
 Within a year, however, Congress restored the prosecutors' flexible tool by passing the current law.
 Since then, critics argue, chaos has resulted, with significant differences across the country in the ways that the statute is interpreted. 
 Bennett L. Gershman, a professor at Pace University Law School, said the power of prosecutors to overreach by focusing on a person to prosecute and then finding a law to apply ''is not only subject to abuse under the honest-services theory, but has been abused'' in cases like those involving Mr. Siegelman, the former Alabama governor. 
 The charges against Mr. Siegelman, including honest-services fraud, concerned a contribution from a businessman, Richard M. Scrushy, to an issue campaign advocated by the governor, who later reappointed Mr. Scrushy to a state hospital board. 
 The Department of Justice has conducted an investigation of the case and found no misconduct in the prosecution; Mr. Siegelman's supporters say the investigation was poorly conducted. Mr. Siegelman has appealed to the Supreme Court, which has not decided whether to take up the case.
 Ms. Sloan, of the watchdog group, said that if prosecutors abused the statute, ''it doesn't mean the whole statute is at fault.''
 ''It means the prosecutors made some bad decisions,'' she said.
 Richard L. Thornburgh, who was attorney general when the honest-services law was passed, said he expected the Supreme Court to issue ''something fairly sweeping'' since it had taken on so many honest-services cases. 
 But, he added, ''I think they can do it without doing violence to proper law enforcement.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about the growing number of prosecutions on honest-services charges -- a favorite tool of prosecutors in corruption cases -- misstated the legal status of Bruce Weyhrauch, a former Alaska state legislator whose prosecution on such charges is before the Supreme Court. Mr. Weyhrauch has been indicted on charges of honest-services fraud; he has not been convicted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The honest-services law was used in the prosecution of, from left, Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron
Conrad M. Black, the newspaper executive
and Bruce Weyhrauch, a former Alaska legislator. The Supreme Court will hear their appeals.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAT SULLIVAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOHN GRESS/REUTERS
 AL GRILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ETHICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%)

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON LEGAL FOUNDATION (55%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CRIMINAL DEFENSE LAWYERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



200 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Room for Charter Schools? It's a New York Story

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''City's Schools Share Space, and Bitterness, With Charters'' (front page, Nov. 30): 
 Public schools are not sharing ''their'' space with charter schools because they don't own the space. Taxpayers do. 
 And what do taxpayers get for providing space to public charter schools? High-performing schools focused on serving the academic needs of students, often in low-income neighborhoods.
 According to a study by Caroline M. Hoxby, a Stanford University economist, New York City charter schools are helping to close the Harlem-Scarsdale achievement gap. 
 Since charter schools have achieved such success in low-income communities, parents will continue to leave failing traditional schools to enroll their children in charters. 
 Providing space for these successful schools is not the only thing we should be doing; we should also be emulating their practices.
 Richard F. McKeon Berkeley Heights, N.J., Dec. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your article suggests that the need for city schools to share their building space is caused in large part by charter schools. Long before the advent of charters, the city began housing more than one school in buildings with available space -- a common-sense way to maximize the use of scarce school space, given constantly shifting neighborhood enrollments that create both underutilized and overcrowded buildings. 
 This administration has expanded that practice, and it has constructed 70,000 new school seats, in response to the need for space. In doing so, we have also been able to provide families with more and better options, both charter and non-charter, by creating 400 new schools. Not only do charters represent less than one quarter of these schools, but the type of bureaucracy that oversees a school doesn't matter to children and shouldn't matter to us.
 It isn't easy for a school community to give up space, no matter how much of it exists, for any other school or program. Thanks to the hard work of principals and teachers, however, these arrangements have been largely collaborative and serve the best interests of our students.
 David Cantor Press Secretary New York City Dept. of Education New York, Dec. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Thank you for reporting on the resistance to charter schools in many neighborhoods. It's helpful to know that not all parents regard charters as the greatest thing since sliced bread or the panacea for all that's wrong with New York City public schools.
 So, I hope it doesn't seem churlish to complain about one word. You say charter schools ''are generally nonunion, freeing them from labor restrictions.'' 
 ''Restrictions'' is a negative-sounding word. My dictionary defines it as ''something that limits or confines.'' But as a teacher and proud union member for nearly 30 years, I found that my experience was just the opposite. 
 Knowing that I worked under a union contract -- that there were rules -- gave me a sense of freedom and security. I was able to try new ideas and procedures, knowing that I wouldn't be arbitrarily punished if the innovations weren't always successful -- the opposite of feeling restricted.
 John E. Stafford Rye, N.Y., Nov. 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

 
