

601 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: ON THE STUMP;
As Vibrant Campaigner, Cuomo Has No Equal

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
Is there any politician but Mario M. Cuomo who would devote an entire campaign appearance to an impassioned, detailed history of the labor movement in America?
Is there any other politician who could? 
 The Governor has often been called an old-fashioned progressive in an era of back-pedaling New Democrats, the remnant of an earlier day when Democrats were rousing, Happy Warrior populists. But as he has stumped through New York for the last several weeks, Mr. Cuomo has once again demonstrated a campaign style even more singular than that.
This is a candidate who simply knows things that other candidates do not know, and who says things that other candidates would never dream of saying. Where other politicians around the nation talk vaguely about the need for change, Mr. Cuomo talks about the nature of change, the cycles of history. Where other trailing candidates belittle the polls, Mr. Cuomo does so in a Catskills routine, via the Jesuits.
"These polls, they're wonderful too," he told a group of wealthy supporters in Manhattan Thursday night. "The polls are really great. Here's what the polls say. I don't look at the polls. Why? They tell you your popularity has gone down. Nobody likes you. It's like being spat upon. I don't need that. I'm married."
It may have little to do with how he might govern in a fourth term, but he remains one of the most compelling campaigners in America. Any single sentence of his is likely to veer into a funny ethnic back alley somewhere in prehistoric Queens before emerging into a vast cosmic statement about human morality. He can be bitter and obnoxious and infuriating, but he retains the ability to bring a crowd around to his side -- if only for a few moments -- no matter how many times they've boarded his ride. His own crankiness, in fact, is part of the inside joke, as he demonstrated to a tentful of New York Times executives last week at the groundbreaking for a new printing plant.
"I think some of their editorials are lousy," he said of the paper's opinion pages, savoring the opportunity. "But I have trouble with some parts of the Old Testament, so that doesn't mean anything."
He has always disliked the labored rituals of the stump, the conspicuous consumption of calamari at a street fair while wearing an "I Love Mario" cap and tapping a toe to Italian music. He will occasionally indulge the crowd with such antics, but it is often with little joy, and the creases in his face seem deeper and more pained with each tarantella.
Last week, leaving a converted defense plant in Long Island, he walked across the street to a waiting crowd and listlessly shook a few hands. Within 15 seconds he was deep in an argument with a bystander about the Public Service Commission. After a moment of pointless heat, he waved off the man with a dismissive gesture, got back in his car and left, the handshaking over almost before it started. As if in counterpoint, Vice President Al Gore followed him out the door, tripped when his crutch caught an aide's pants cuff, and fell face down on the ground. He immediately bounded up, plunged into the same crowd, and spent several happy argument-free minutes chatting, handshaking and waving.
Mr. Gore is an effusive campaigner, but he shares none of the Governor's oddly distancing charisma. Where other politicians draw strength from a crowd's body heat, Mr. Cuomo seems truly comfortable only when shielded from them by a lectern. There are clearly variations in his mood -- on Friday he seemed to actually enjoy chatting with bystanders in Penn Station -- but for the most part, he is most alive when a microphone is near his mouth, for it is there that he can work the levers and dials of a crowd, raising and lowering their emotional pitch with the precision of an engineer.
At a breakfast meeting of the Communications Workers of America in Manhattan last week, where Mr. Cuomo delivered his labor-movement history, most of the crowd was his before he walked in the door. The Governor is an old friend of organized labor, and he could have read the newspaper and gotten an ovation. While his listeners expected to be satisfied, however, they did not plan on being enthralled, not after 12 years of his voice swirling through the state's collective consciousness.
Yet there was not a sound to be heard in the ballroom as Mr. Cuomo swept them from African slavery to the sweatshops to the Triangle Shirtwaist fire, from the glory days of labor to the winter of Reaganomics and into a promised golden future of worker-management cooperation triumphant over the global economy. No one in the room learned a thing, and no one's life was changed by his words. But whether they believed in his rosy predictions or not, many of them suddenly felt much better about themselves and their movement, and their applause was fervent and prolonged.
"Man, what a way to start a morning," said Elaine Conchero, a C.W.A. member from Midwood. "He's like a good cup of coffee."
Even his worst detractors have always conceded the raw power of his oratory and his impressive erudition. His Republican opponent, State Senator George E. Pataki, enjoys confessing that he is not Mr. Cuomo's speechmaking equal, and likes to make fun of the Latin phrases and theological hand-wringing that are by now the Governor's trademark. Doing so apparently makes Mr. Pataki more familiar to the average tongue-tied citizen. Seeking to inoculate voters from Mr. Cuomo's spell, Republicans have often tried to paint him as a kind of brilliant Svengali, whose pretty words might bewitch listeners into doing something evil in the voting booth.
But even more than his eloquence, it is actually the sweep of his core themes that has kept what he calls his final campaign so intriguing, even to those who have heard the E. B. White quotes and the old neighborhood memories several dozen times. His great subject is the nature of the American experience, the way the nation's immigrant history is deeply woven into its future, and he is one of the few politicians who can bring it off without sounding shallow or contrived.
"I want a place that has room for everybody," he told a street rally in Long Island City earlier this month, his booming voice at its most emphatic. "I want a place that gives opportunity to everybody. I want a place where your kid can go to school, whether he's black or white or Latino or gay or lesbian or Pole or Russian, what the heck ever he is, we give them opportunity. If you can work, if you're willing to do your job, if you're willing to get an education, then you can be whatever you want. That's where I come from. That's what Queens is."
The words are not merely a throwback, they are an open defiance of the prevailing constrictive mood, a high-wire challenge to the fundamental laws of politics. And as he well knows, there is nothing more riveting than watching to see if the acrobat can survive the act.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo speaking on Saturday at a restaurant in Buffalo. State Assemblyman Arthur Eve is at rear, directly beyond the microphone. The Governor has surpassed his already large reputation as a unique, charismatic campaigner in the current run-up to Election Day. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); RELIGION (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



602 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: The 'Bell Curve' Agenda

 BODY:
"The Bell Curve," a flame-throwing treatise on race, class and intelligence by the late Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray advances a grisly thesis: I.Q., largely inherited and intractable, dictates an individual's success -- an economic death knell for much of America's black population. The story has America increasingly divided by race and sliding inexorably into castes based on I.Q.
The book has already ignited bitter controversy, and that is no surprise. It declares settled what many regard as an unresolved argument over whether I.Q.'s have scientific merit. Moreover, Mr. Murray's record as a political ideologue who uses social science data to support his policy preferences touches a tender spot in American intellectual history on the issue of race and intelligence. 
 The notion that one group could be genetically superior to another has a long and sordid history in this country and abroad. Bigots purported to find "scientific" evidence that blacks, or American Indians, or Jews, to name three targets, were of inferior stock. Even supposedly objective scholars lent their talents to such racism.
Individual readers can judge the authors' racial attitudes and data. The concern here is the governmental fallout of a book that aspires to set the agenda of social policy debate for the decade. What gives their sweeping generalities poignancy is an overlay of sophisticated statistical tools that create an aura of scientific certitude sure to intimidate ordinary citizens from challenging the alarming conclusions.
That would be tragic. Though "The Bell Curve" contains serious scholarship, it is also laced with tendentious interpretation. Once unlike-minded scholars have time to react, they will subject its findings to withering criticism. At its best, the Herrnstein-Murray story is an unconvincing reading of murky evidence. At its worst, it is perniciously and purposely incendiary. The graphs, charts, tables and data admit of less dire conclusions. But less dire would not have put Mr. Murray on the cover of news magazines, though it would have given America's disadvantaged a more accurate, hopeful glimpse of their future.
The authors argue that there is an underlying core to intelligence, separate from individual talents or skills, that is well measured by I.Q. tests. I.Q. scores are largely inherited and after childhood immutable. In their view, high I.Q. leads to high income and respectable behavior. Low I.Q. leads to social pathology -- poverty, welfare dependency, out-of-wedlock births and crime.
The book says low-I.Q. parents produce large families, dragging average I.Q.'s lower. Its authors belabor the well-known fact that the average I.Q. of blacks is 15 points below that of whites and dismiss arguments that these low test scores reflect little more than biased testing. Their implication is that blacks are trapped at the bottom of society.
But many experts reject these chilling conclusions. For starters, the authors' statistical techniques are insufficiently powerful to distinguish the impact of I.Q. from talents or skills, some of which can be taught. Here, terminology matters. Were Mr. Murray parading around town with a story about skills, he would sound like everyone else who has tried to explain the explosive increase in income inequality in the last two decades. By blaming low I.Q. for poverty, he makes remediation look silly; by blaming skills for poverty, he would have invited society to try. The first finding is obviously the more attractive for Mr. Murray, who has built his career on arguing for the elimination of social programs.
The authors give short shrift to explanations for low I.Q. scores that are less bleak than their own. Some remedial programs have raised I.Q.'s, even if temporarily. I.Q.'s for blacks, as well as whites, are moving higher over time. Black educational achievement is catching up. And other countries do a better job integrating minorities in the economic mainstream than the U.S. does. One of the authors' key measures of innate intelligence, scores on the military's qualifying test, has been shown to be a product of education, an environmental factor. The issue is balanced interpretation. Mr. Murray has created an act of advocacy; he has not built a scientific case.
"The Bell Curve" presumes, but does not prove, that differences in genes account for 60 percent of the differences in the I.Q.'s of children. It is essential to note -- which the authors do but many of their critics do not -- that group differences in I.Q. may have nothing to do with genes even if individual I.Q.'s are largely inherited. An example proves the point. Plants grown together under ideal conditions will achieve different heights based solely on individual genetic makeup. But lock half the plants in a dark closet and the difference in average height of the two groups will be due entirely to environment. So even if I.Q.'s are deemed to be largely inherited, that says nothing about the potential impact on I.Q. of altering prenatal care or aggressive early education.
Mr. Murray's findings are not wrong because they are ugly. They are wrong because they blind us to more compelling interpretations and because they ignore the huge gaps in understanding the precise nature of intelligence. What is right about the book was already well known: skills have taken on increasing importance in the economy and they are difficult to acquire. What is new about the book -- the fixation on genes as destiny -- is surely unproved and almost surely wrong: programs here and abroad produce measurable, if unspectacular, results. These sobering lessons were clear before "The Bell Curve" was published. They remain so afterward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: BELL CURVE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE; EDITORIALS; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; BLACKS (IN US); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); WRITERS (89%); RACE & RACISM (77%); FAMILY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: HERRNSTEIN, RICHARD J; MURRAY, CHARLES CHARLES MURRAY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



603 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Clinton's Concessions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The problem with Bill Clinton's trip to Syria to seek an agreement about the Golan Heights is that he has persuaded himself that his cave-in last week to North Korea was "a very good deal indeed."
Examine that deal. Mr. Clinton's opening position was that untrustworthy North Korea must not be allowed to become a nuclear power; he soon trimmed that to say it must not possess nuclear bombs, and stoutly threatened sanctions if North Korea did not permit inspections of nuclear facilities at Yongbyon, where the C.I.A. and K.G.B. agree nuclear devices have been developed. 
 But as a result of Clinton's Very Good Deal Indeed, I.A.E.A. inspectors are denied entry to those plants for five years -- when some excuse will be found for more secrecy.
Because Clinton backed down, North Korea's first two atomic explosives -- which Administration spinmeisters now dismiss as "low yield," but capable of obliterating everything within a three-quarter-mile radius -- could menace Seoul and, in a few years, be deliverable in Tokyo. That's enough of a mass-destruction threat to preclude a pre-emptive strike by us if North Korea, in the next U.S. President's Administration, breaks its agreement to freeze additional bomb-making.
Well, let 'em have a couple, but see how they've promised to stop producing more plutonium: "The entire world will be safer," Clinton insists. In prepayment for that blackmail, the U.S. has agreed to supply the North with $100 million worth of oil each year and arrange with allies to build -- free -- a $4 billion light-water reactor that apologists claim would make it terribly difficult to produce weapons-grade plutonium, though experts disagree.
But that substitute reactor won't be on-line for nine years. And the victorious North Korean negotiator, Kang Sok Ju, crows that "the complete elimination of the existing nuclear program will only come when we have the light-water reactor in our hands." Meanwhile, the North's "existing nuclear program" goes on -- including work in sites forbidden to I.A.E.A. inspectors.
These inspectors are seething at the U.S. cave-in and the precedent set for future blackmail. Proliferation watchdog Gary Milhollin says: "We're about to rescue North Korea from its poverty, but they don't give up very much." James Schlesinger, a former chairman of the A.E.C. and later Jimmy Carter's Energy Secretary, has this judgment: "While it was not an unconditional surrender, it was a negotiated surrender."
Why pay North Korea billions while it retains a secret bomb capability for at least five years?
"What do you want," replies a Clintonite in a burst of candor, "a war?"
That explains it: Just as the credible threat of war by the U.S. forced out Haiti's junta and forced Saddam Hussein away from Kuwait, the threat of war by North Korea forced Bill Clinton to fold his hand.
But war was a false alternative: another choice was sustained diplomatic pressure, economic sanctions, with benefits to the North only after verified performance. That Reaganesque course was too hard for Clinton.
How does Clinton's willingness to pay dictatorships up front affect his coming visit to Hafez al-Assad in Syria?
We can hope it is not another advance concession. To visit a nation on our short list of terrorist states is to effectively remove it from that list. Clinton's visit is an honor long sought by Assad, who spent 17 years undermining the Sadat-Begin initiative, who harbors Iran's Hezbollah in conquered Lebanon and who made Damascus the world capital of terrorism.
The reason for such substantial payment up front cannot be only to prop up political popularity, recalling Nixon's sad overseas tour after Watergate.
No astute dealmaker would throw away the valuable card of a Presidential visit. Clinton should have an equally dramatic return concession in hand that would speed a territorial compromise on the Golan.
But that's where his recent, unbounded enthusiasm for the disappointing Korean negotiation is most worrisome. Clinton has just proved he can hypnotize himself into fervently believing that any deal at all -- including one that puts his successor as President in a terrible box -- is "a very good deal indeed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (88%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); ISRAEL (58%); JAPAN (55%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; NORTH KOREA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; SYRIA; ISRAEL; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (88%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); ISRAEL (58%); JAPAN (55%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (92%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



604 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: What Those Figures on New Jobs Really Mean;
Misleading Numbers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Statistics Reveal Bulk of New Jobs Pay Over Average" (front page, Oct. 17) focuses deceptively on average income changes. You quote the economist Paul R. Krugman as saying that "there's something funny about numbers that suggest that the average real wage is declining." (Mr. Krugman also asserts that "workers as a group are fully sharing in economic gains.") 
 But in elementary statistics, students are immediately taught that an arithmetic average can be highly misleading when a distribution is skewed; a median (the middle value) is more enlightening in such a case. On Oct. 7, summarizing a new Census Bureau study, you reported that from 1992 to 1993, median household income (the typical American household's income) declined, that a million more people fell into poverty, and that "while average per capita income was up, by 1.8 percent, most of the benefits flowed to the wealthiest Americans."
In short, there is nothing "funny" about a decline in the wages of typical Americans if we examine the entire income distribution, look at the median instead of average values and can digest the fact that inequality and poverty are continuing to increase from already serious levels.
 
EDWARD S. HERMAN
Narberth, Pa., Oct. 20, 1994
 
The writer retired as a professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WRITERS (73%); CENSUS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); 

PERSON: HERMAN, EDWARD S PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



605 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Companies
 The comebacks of General Motors and I.B.M. have been strongpoints of the nation's industrial revival. Yet while I.B.M. reported surprisingly strong profit for the third quarter last week, General Motors showed a worrying loss in its crucial North American auto business. Yet what appeared a divergence of fates may serve as a cautionary lesson for I.B.M. It also reflects the travails of reshaping a corporate giant after years of mismanagement in an economy where the direction has been hard to predict. [Page D1.] 
 MCI Communications has decided to go its own way in building a nationwide wireless-telephone network, rejecting any immediate alliance with the regional Bell companies, company executives said. But Sprint was said to be planning to announce the details of an alliance with four big cable television companies to build a new wireless system from the ground up. [D1.]
 Synaptics will introduce a device today that it says offers a more accurate and reliable way to control personal computers and other electronic appliances than the mouse and trackball. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
 Three weeks after Peter Guber departed as chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, the studio appears stricken by indecision, high-level turmoil, executive defections and a weak slate of forthcoming film releases -- the same problems, in other words, it has grappled with for years. [D1.]
 News magazine programs, once in such favor among broadcast networks, have become the most depressed genre in network television. Ratings for nearly all the programs are down. [D1.]
 The combined average Monday-to-Friday circulation of New York City's four newspapers has slipped more than 150,000 since 1992, a sign that newspaper circulation in the country's biggest media market is again shrinking after it had seemed to level off. [D10.]
 The financial difficulties behind the collapse of Whittle Communications, a once high-flying alternative media company, were far more severe than previously believed and masked in part by accounting misrepresentations, a published report says. [D10.]
 Time Inc. is testing interactive-media versions of several publications, ranging from Time, Vibe and Sunset magazines to Time Warner Books. [D10.]
 With accurate, saturation reporting of the killings, evidence and legal maneuvering, The National Enquirer has become the bible of the O. J. Simpson case. [A12.]
To know the mind of Generation X, Houston Effler turns to its 26-year-old youth-marketing director. Advertising. [D11.]
 
The Economy
 Having succeeded beyond its wildest dreams in nurturing the Internet computer web into a national information highway system, the Government has begun to transfer to private industry the job of maintaining and operating the network. [D1.]
 
International
 Russia's struggle to get loans from the International Monetary Fund in order to meet its budget and expenses has followed a pattern: the Russians promise fiscal and monetary discipline, while citing the importance of their economic transformation to the well-being and peace of the world. [A5.]
 
Today's Columns
 A hand-held stamp will let people imprint zip codes on envelopes in bar code, speeding delivery. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
 In a tough business climate, Citicorp is again a favorite among banks. Market Place. [D8.]

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
The chart atop the Business Digest on Monday misstated the major financial indicators for last week in some editions. The Dow Jones industrial average closed the week at 3,891.30, down 19.17 points; the dollar was last quoted at 97.22 yen to the dollar, down 0.88 yen; the crude oil contract for December delivery closed at $17.38 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 41 cents; the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond ended at 7.97 percent, up 14 basis points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); TIME INC (82%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); RELIGION (73%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); GENERATION X (63%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (55%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: PETER GUBER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



606 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Prepares to Reveal Spending Cuts

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
After weeks of quietly drafting ways to keep New York City's $31.6 billion budget balanced, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plans to unveil a menu of spending cuts this week that officials say will affect programs and services for thousands, if not millions, of New Yorkers.
As he and his aides continued to make adjustments last night, the Mayor's revision of the budget that took effect four months ago was expected to include more than $850 million in spending cuts, sparing virtually no city agency, officials said. 
 At 5:20 this evening, Mr. Giuliani, the Republican who has vowed to make New York finally spend within its means, plans to give what his aides call a major address on the state of the city's finances and the need for still more drastic steps. The Mayor's decision to take to the airwaves for a direct appeal to New Yorkers recalls similar decisions that his predecessor, Mayor David N. Dinkins made at times of pressing concerns for the city, including two during a recessionary budget crisis in 1991 and one on Thanksgiving Day in 1992 to quell tensions lingering from the disturbances in Crown Heights a year before.
In his address, Mr. Giuliani is expected to brace New Yorkers for cuts ahead, appealing, aides said, to a sense of civic sacrifice. At the same time, they said, he will highlight favorable economic signs for the city -- including an increase of 30,000 private jobs since he took office -- that he says are proof of the need to continue his policies of cutting spending and the size of the city's payroll.
"The economy is coming back," the Mayor said yesterday after attending Mass at the Immaculate Conception Roman Catholic Church in Astoria, Queens, striking a note he is expected to repeat in the address. "So we really have to continue to reduce the size of government spending, which in New York has gotten out of control, and this is really one more step in that."
The details of the spending cuts have been guarded as secrets, with agency officials under orders not to discuss them publicly. But the measures, city officials say, include cutting such jobs as bridge painters, heat inspectors, civilians in the Police Department and administrators in most agencies.
The Mayor also plans deep cuts in social services like emergency food programs, and less money for the city's subways and its university system, which may ultimately result in fare and tuition increases.
The city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, which has already proposed cutting 3,000 jobs to cope with the first round of cutting, faces a new reduction of about $100 million, as does the Transit Authority. Officials said the Board of Education's cut is expected to be nearly double that.
In all, the Mayor plans to close a $1.1 billion gap in the budget -- $100 million higher than his aides were planning only a week ago -- by cutting about 5,000 more jobs through attrition and a new round of severance packages still to be negotiated with the unions in talks that are to resume early this morning.
The job cuts, coming on top of the 15,000 cuts already budgeted for elimination in the city-financed payroll of 216,000 workers, would reduce the payroll to the lowest level in a decade, when it totaled 194,373 in 1985 under Mayor Edward I. Koch.
In addition to $850 million in spending cuts to the agencies, the officials said, the plan will include nearly $200 million in savings on health care costs for workers and retirees and another $50 million that in part includes more aggressive collection of fees and fines.
The bleak plan could prove politically unpalatable. While the first cuts in spending have affected services in ways large and small, from larger class sizes in schools to fewer repairs in parks, the administration has so far managed to avoid catastrophic service disruptions.
But this time, officials said, the impact will be greater, setting the stage for intense wrangling with the City Council once Mr. Giuliani formally presents his budget revision. He is scheduled to do so tomorrow.
"Since the plan has been formulated in a vacuum, the Council will clearly focus on the service impacts," said Thomas L. McMahon, director of the Council's finance division. "I think there's a real concern on the fiscal side that the city doesn't have the resources to do all the things it does, but also on the service side that the cuts we're talking about will have a real impact on people."
Since Mr. Giuliani took office in January, the city budget has proved to be the bugaboo of his tenure.
After pushing through the Council a $31.6 billion budget that cut spending by $1.1 billion, Mr. Giuliani has watched it come undone. Tax revenues in the first quarter of the fiscal year fell below expectations. The number of people on welfare has kept rising. Overtime has soared and judgments in liability suits against the city are expected to rise to a record $300 million this year, $80 million higher than budgeted.
At the same time, several sources of help anticipated in the budget have not arrived, including new Federal aid and legislation in Albany that was projected to save millions of dollars.
Only 11 days after the budget took effect, the Mayor said he would cut $100 million more in spending. With the city's fiscal monitors warning of a shortfall of $1 billion or more, the Mayor's gap-closing plan has grown steadily since then, reaching $1.1 billion last week.
The Mayor's senior aide, Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers, said that the administration was acting to stay on top of the budget before it turned into a crisis. He declined to discuss the specific cuts, but he said they would fall across the board and indicated that they would cut muscle in the form of programs and services, not just bureaucratic fat.
"Everything we do we know has to be very, very real," Mr. Powers said. "There can't be any softness."
Once Mr. Giuliani formally unveils his plan -- officially known as "a budget modification" -- the Council has 30 days to consider it. Unlike the budget process in the spring, this modification cannot by law be revised by the Council: it must simply vote yes or no, or do nothing and let the cuts take effect anyway.
The Council can negotiate with the Mayor to resubmit the entire plan with revisions. Mr. McMahon said that the Council still held out hope for increased aid from Washington, as high as $200 million, that could be used to minimize some of the cuts.
Even with the new cuts, the city's persistent budget problems will by no means be solved. Projections for the next two or three fiscal years include even larger deficits, because spending on welfare, Medicaid, pensions and other programs continues to grow faster than the city's revenues from taxes.
Echoing the fiscal monitors and other budget experts, Mr. McMahon said that the city needed to persuade the Legislature in Albany to relieve the city of the programs and services it imposes, including its requirement that the city pay a quarter-share of Medicaid costs.
"Otherwise," he said, "we will be back in January making another billion dollars in changes."
Mr. Giuliani's broadcast address will be the third of his administration. The first came as he unveiled his budget plans in February and the second at the end of his first 100 days in April. But his aides said that the scope of the budget problems would give this speech greater import.
In his remarks yesterday, Mr. Giuliani said that much work lay ahead before those problems could be resolved. "It took us 16 years to get here," he said. "It took 16 years of overspending, spending more money than the rate of the growth of the economy. It's going to take longer than one budget, and one budget modification, to cure all of it."
 
CHRONOLOGY
Struggling to Balance the Budget
MAY 10 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani proposes a $31.6 billion budget that closes a projected $2.3 billion gap. It cuts $1.1 billion in spending and eliminates 15,000 of the 216,000 city-financed jobs by attrition and a severance program.
JUNE 21 After making only minor changes, the City Council's leadership approves the budget, and the Mayor and Speaker Peter F. Vallone toast the occasion with champagne. The full Council approves the budget by a vote of 43 to 8 two days later.
JULY 1 The new budget takes effect with the start of the 1995 fiscal year.
JULY 11 Facing criticism from the state's Financial Control Board, Mr. Giuliani promises to cut spending by $100 million in the first three months of the fiscal year to build the city's reserves to $250 million.
JULY 25 Mr. Giuliani orders agencies to cut spending by $250 million immediately and prepare for the possibility of cutting $200 million more as he plans to revise the new budget to keep it balanced.
JULY 27 The State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, releases a critique that concludes that the budget still has a projected shortfall of more than $600 million. A day later, the Financial Control Board says the gap is likely to be more than $1 billion.
SEPT. 20 Mr. Giuliani says measures are needed to close a budget gap as large as $600 million, as his budget aides acknowledge lower-than-expected tax revenues, growing welfare rolls and soaring overtime costs, particularly in the Department of Correction.
SEPT. 23 In a private briefing with the City Council, the Mayor says he will have to close a budget gap of $800 million to $1 billion. In a speech to the City Club of New York, he says he cannot solve years of overspending in one budget.
SEPT. 28 Mr. Giuliani summons leaders of the city's municipal unions to Gracie Mansion for a briefing on his plans to close a $1 billion gap, in part with $200 million in savings from health care benefits for unionized workers and with a new round of severance packages to cut as many as 8,500 more workers.
OCT. 14 The city's Comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, predicts that the city's budget has a $1.4 billion shortfall, higher than the $1 billion plan being pieced together by the Mayor. The Mayor's aides later increase the gap-closing plan to $1.1 billion.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about the plan to eliminate 7,600 New York municipal jobs referred incompletely to the employees exempted from a special severance offer. Along with teachers, the offer excluded police officers, firefighters and other uniformed officers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TUITION FEES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); THANKSGIVING (52%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MYERS, STEVEN LEE RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



607 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2438 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad's Burden -- A special report.;
Iraq Is Near Economic Ruin But Hussein Appears Secure

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 20

 BODY:
Children lie on filthy hospital beds, murmuring in pain as they die of diarrhea and pneumonia. Some of the Arab world's finest artists peddle their work for as little as $12 a painting. A 50-year-old retired policeman, victim of a stroke a year ago, limps from merchant to merchant in a food market looking for what he can afford on a pension driven down by inflation to the equivalent of $2 a month, barely enough to buy one chicken.
In this city, which only five years ago ranked as one of the most vibrant and prosperous capitals of the Middle East, the plight of Iraq is amply evident, but political improvement is not. Gone are the mounds of imported goods, sweets, pistachios and varied nuts that were a fixture of many Baghdad street markets. They have been replaced by spontaneous flea markets where sullen middle-class men and women offer their cutlery, used furniture and family possessions for sale to make ends meet. 
 Cars with broken fenders and cracked windshields for lack of spare parts make their way through dusty, cheerless streets where pavements are collapsing and sewers overflow.
In the two weeks since Iraq moved some of its best-trained troops toward the Kuwaiti border, only to be rebuffed by American military countermeasures, the world has been duly reminded of the stringent trade sanctions imposed four years ago by the United Nations. If that was President Saddam Hussein's intention, he was successful. If it was also his hope that the United Nations could be persuaded somehow to lift the embargo, he was not.
This country of 20 million people -- which sits atop the world's second-largest oil reserves, after Saudi Arabia's -- remains financially broken, lurching from one crisis to another. Unable to sell its oil and buy food, medicine and spare parts except under United Nations conditions that it refuses to accept, Iraq faces famine and economic collapse.
Despite the hardships being heaped on the population, Mr. Hussein, his two sons and potential political heirs, Uday and Qusay, and his Takriti family clan continue to rule Iraq virtually as royalty. Behind the walls of sumptuous palaces and cordons of security men, Mr. Hussein remains invulnerable to public dissent, protected by an intelligence and security apparatus directed by Qusay and a handful of first cousins and other relatives.
The Iraqi President has rarely appeared in public in the last few years, but his presence remains overwhelming. He appears in taped television programs broadcast daily. His face peers down from thousands of posters and statues throughout the country. He continues to claim victories and inveigh against enemies from the United States to Saudi Arabia, promising almost weekly an imminent lifting of the United Nations sanctions. And his Government does not discourage journalists from the West from reporting firsthand on the economic ruin that Mr. Hussein blames on the international community.
"This used to be a rich country," said an Iraqi intellectual who described himself as having been a fervent supporter of the Hussein Government. "Today I'd say not more than one million Iraqis are living in any real sense of the word. They are those who uphold Saddam's rule and those who protect him. They are given food and plenty of money. The rest of us are drifting into this surreal kind of poverty where university professors sell their family's possessions to eat. It is breaking down the very fabric of this society."
"Sometimes, when I hear foreign radio broadcast assertions from America or Britain that the only way to salvation is to get rid of Saddam, I say to myself, 'Do they think we are some kind of video game or what?' " said the man, who like everyone interviewed outside Government circles insisted on the protection of anonymity. "You are looking at a people whose energy is drained simply looking for the next meal."
Abdelrazak al-Hashemi, a senior official who heads the foreign relations bureau of the governing Baath Party, recalled the brief popular uprising that was ruthlessly put down by the Iraqi Army in March 1991 after its expulsion from Kuwait, and said: "That was a time when 14 of the country's 18 provinces were outside government control, but the regime did not fall. Do you think it is going to fall now because of these sanctions?"
Mr. Hashemi, who served as a Cabinet minister and in several other top positions during the last two decades, then added for emphasis: "Listen. The President is managing the country. Those who think the sanctions will bring him down will have to wait for a long time."
 
Social Order
Crime Is Rampant; Middle Class Sinks
 Managing, however, may not be the right word to describe Mr. Hussein's hold on the country. In some ways the Government is notable for lack of control.
While the Government firmly controls central Iraq, where Sunni Muslims and Christian Iraqis live, Mr. Hussein's hold over the north, inhabited by Kurds, and the south, heavily populated by Shiite Muslims, is questionable.
Two weeks ago, a busload of journalists and officials of the Iraqi Information Ministry accompanying them were stopped on the way to the southern city of Basra in the daytime by a group of armed bandits.
They were beaten. Men were stripped of their clothes. Women were roughed up. The bandits took thousands of dollars in cash, photographic equipment and jewelry. Passports and identity cards were confiscated. The bandits, who numbered a dozen or so, shot up the bus tires and left the group after briefly debating whether they should kill the passengers.
Some passengers wondered later whether the incident could have involved a conspiracy between the bandits and army troops in the region who, like other Iraqis, are in dire need of money. "The road was conspicuously deserted, as though someone had blocked it after we passed," one passenger said.
In the north, where the Kurds live, the American-led coalition that pushed Iraq from Kuwait barred Iraqi troops from the region several years ago, declaring it a "safe haven." Mr. Hussein responded by cutting off food rations, but the Government has ceased to have much influence there.
Southern Iraq, where Shiite Muslims dominate the population, has been hostile territory for years as Hussein forces have pursued a systematic campaign since the late 1970's to uproot Shiite militants financed by Iran who are revolting against the Sunni-dominated Government. Today, it is dangerous to travel in the region by night.
The most striking change in law and order is in Baghdad and in the center of the country, where the Government appears uncompromising in its political policing, but unwilling or unable to protect people from ordinary crime.
Thefts, burglaries and rapes are rampant, reported to have increased by 40 to 50 percent above the rate of five years ago. The police force appears unable to cope. As a result, homes are now locked with chains at night, when the streets are deserted in large cities, including this capital.
Fathers and sons take turns at night keeping an eye on the family car. Women rarely venture out alone after dark. Random nighttime shootings are common in some areas, and in the huge Saddam City slum in Baghdad, dominated by Shiites and the poor, the police are virtually absent after nightfall.
Elsewhere, public employees are easily bribed, a surprising development in a country where bribery was rare before.
Bribery begins at the border with Jordan, where a pack of Marlboro cigarettes is enough to get across without an exhaustive search. Like most Iraqis, many customs officials are hardly paid enough to eat. By all accounts, prostitution has been on the rise among the poor and middle classes, too, under the impact of deprivation.
"The gulf war has fundamentally changed the social structure," said an artist. "The middle class is wiped out. Being a doctor or an engineer means nothing anymore since you can't feed your family anymore."
Asked if this posed a threat to Mr. Hussein's rule, the artist responded: "Not necessarily, because people are terrified of what they see. If the regime falls, you can imagine the chaos that will result with the poor attacking the less poor. Nearly everybody here has arms, and the country is slipping into chaos. Sometimes I think the regime encourages the notion of a breakdown. It's like saying, 'See what could happen,' if they were no longer around."
 
The Economy
Food Is Meager And Rationed
 Much of this collapse was caused by a devastated economy. Five years ago, before the sanctions, an Iraqi dinar was worth a little more than $3. Today $1 fetches anywhere from 500 to 600 dinars. But salaries have not increased. An Iraqi engineer, doctor or government employee makes at most 3,000 to 5,000 dinars a month, or $6 to $10. Retirees live on as little as $3 a month.
The only salvation is a remarkable rationing system that guarantees a minimum of essential food every month to every Iraqi. The system was adopted after the sanctions took effect, but as the money to finance it runs out, the program has shrunk.
At his office, the Minister of Trade showed what Iraqis are entitled to since the rationing system was halved on Sept. 29. An Iraqi citizen is now given 13 pounds of wheat flour, 1.6 pounds of sugar, 1.3 pounds of cooking oil, a half pound of detergents and some rice, tea and soap.
"This is the quota for a people who are living on a lake of oil, because the United States and the United Nations will not let us sell our oil to feed our people," the Trade Minister, Saadi Mehdi Saleh, said in an interview.
Iraq takes the position that under one of several Security Council sanctions resolutions Baghdad will have the right to begin selling oil as soon as a United Nations arms monitoring system is in place and tested. Other resolutions cover more broadly Iraq's right to export and import a range of commodities.
The World Food Organization and other agencies concerned with nutrition said these quantities barely met a third of a person's nutritional requirements.
Unicef said that in the last year there has been a 9 percent rise in malnutrition among Iraqi infants. The reduction in rations "constitutes a risk for the health of 2.25 million children and 230,000 pregnant women or those breast-feeding," said Catherine Bertini, executive director of the World International Food Program in Rome, which assists Kurds in northern Iraq.
Clearly Iraq will soon be unable to provide even these meager rations. Mr. Saleh said that even the reduced amount costs the Government between $600 million and $700 million to buy on world markets every year. And, he said, Iraq is running out of the money it has stashed away to withstand the embargo.
Outside the fragile system, Iraqis are left to the vagaries of the free market. A kilogram (2.2 pounds) of meat costs 750 dinars here, and a chicken costs 650 dinars. This represents a third of an average monthly salary, so most people go without meat.
"I know too many families, middle-class families, that were considered by any standard very comfortable only four years ago, who are reduced to eating one meal a day," said Msgr. Emanuel Delli, a Patriarch of the Chaldean or Nestorian Church, to which most of the Iraq's estimated one million Christians belong. "These families have had no meat or chicken in months. They cannot afford to give their kids a sandwich to take to school."
Asked whom they blame for their plight, Monsignor Delli responded without hesitation. "Most of them consider their kids are being starved by the Americans who control the United Nations," he said.
"We are not asking for charity," he aded. "Just let us sell our oil. You cannot punish a people forever."
 
The Response
Extreme Measures Border on Absurd
 Whether people also blame Mr. Hussein's policies is hardly a subject anyone here dares to raise with a journalist, but the Government has made a show of trying to address discontent.
While blaming the United States and its gulf allies, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Mr. Hussein is also trying to curb conspicuous consumption, largely by his own party cadres and family members. These attempts have pushed the Government to adopt extreme measures that verge on the absurd.
Scores of merchants were hanged for profiteering in a showcase crackdown against corruption. Thieves, Mr. Hussein decreed, would have their hands severed. To gain support among those seeking solace in religion, the Government has for the last year been heavily promoting Islamic culture.
Koranic lessons have been imposed in schools where they were ignored for decades. Alcohol was banned a few weeks ago, largely because members of the ruling establishment were publicly drinking whisky, a bottle of which costs the equivalent of two months' salary for most people.
Iraq has announced that it will build the world's largest mosque. The race track was closed six months ago. All public functions now start with Koranic prayers. These moves toward Islam sharply contradict the fiercely secularist intellectual platform that has been the foundation f Mr. Hussein's Baath Party rule since he took power in a coup in 1968, and many here find these gestures insincere.
Rather than directly address the crisis facing Iraq, Mr. Hussein appears at times disconnected from reality.
Just last month he promised his downtrodden subjects that he would "open the gates of the universe" to them, immediately after slashing the meager rationing system by half. He followed that by ordering his troops on Oct. 6 to move -- again -- toward the Kuwaiti border, bringing the wrath of the United States down on Iraq and postponing any possible lifting of the sanctions.
"The Romans used to say that if you want to quiet the people, give them bread and circuses," said the Iraqi intellectual who described himself as a former supporter of the Government. "Here they are giving them circuses because they can't give bread anymore."
But diplomats who closely follow the gyrations of the Government are not persuaded that they are a precursor of Mr. Hussein's downfall.
"It is always dangerous for outsiders to try and chart a change because no one really knows how it will come out," said an ambassador of an Islamic country here. "This pressure on Iraq, this barbarian policy of starving a whole population to force them into rebellion against the regime, has the contrary effect because it increases the dependence of the people on this Government. Political change is too luxurious a thought to indulge in if you are busy just surviving."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Iraqi doctor examined a four-year-old child Saturday in a Baghdad hospital as the mother looked on. The doctor said the child was suffering from malnutrition and dehydration brought on by the scarcity of food resulting from United Nations sanctions against Iraq. (Associated Press); An Iraqi man buying bread from Huda, a five-year-old, on a downtown Baghdad street yesterday. Many children sell bread made at home by their mothers. The Government cut the monthly food ration by half last month, and some Iraqis sell personal belongings to get money to buy food. (Reuters) (pg. A12)
 
Map of Iraq showing location of Baghdad. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHORTAGES; RATIONING AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FAMINE ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); FAMINE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); SCULPTURE (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); JOURNALISM (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



608 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:
International A3-15
 
EMBARGO SQUEEZES IRAQ
Under the United Nations embargo, Iraq's prosperity has vanished. The recent movement of Iraqi troops toward the Kuwait border drew attention to the conditions, but it has not ended the embargo. A1
 

REPORTS OF RUSSIAN OIL SPILL
The United States has received reports of a huge oil spill from a burst pipeline in the Russian Arctic. The spill poses potentially major environmental damage in the region. A1
 
ARISTIDE MAKING A DECISION
Haiti's President will name an American-educated commodities trader as his Prime Minister, apparently as a compromise between his left-leaning supporters and businessmen, political figures said. A3
 
In Panama, Haiti's former leader writes memoirs and worries. A3
 
CHRISTOPHER COAXING SYRIA
The Secretary of State indicated that if Syria makes peace with Israel and cracks down on terrorists on its borders, that could lead to a flow of Western aid to Syria. A8
 
ISRAEL LOOKING TOWARD SYRIA
While Israelis look forward to signing the peace treaty with Jordan this week, they are looking beyond because the bigger question for peace in the Middle East will be what happens with Syria. A8
 
LEGACY OF SRI LANKAN VIOLENCE
Ethnic violence in Sri Lanka, the latest manifestation of which was the death of the opposition presidential candidate, has stripped a nation that once was a model of development of its leadership. A15
 
RIFT IN YUGOSLAVIA
News Analysis: The decision by Serbia's President to stop supporting Bosnian Serbs in the hopes of lifting sanctions against his country has created a bloc of opposition, especially in the military. A14
 
A former P.O.W. returned to South Korea from the North. A6
 
Rio Journal: A shadow over the sun and sand. A4
 
National A16-19, B8-9
 
MASSACHUSETTS RACE OF IMAGES
Mitt Romney has gone a step further than the normal stance of challengers to incumbents this fall. He is projecting an image of not only not being an incumbent or a career politician but also being everything that his opponent, Senator Ted Kennedy, is not. A1
 
HEDGING BETS IN CALIFORNIA
As an initiative in California to restrict illegal immigration becomes more contentious, Representative Michael Huffington's campaign said it would not attack his opponent, Senator Dianne Feinstein, on the issue. Ms. Feinstein, a Democrat, opposes the measure. B8
 
A TURNAROUND FOR DEMOCRATS
Braced for mid-term election losses, Democrats are fighting back with unexpected strength in the South, supposedly the party's most vulnerable region. B8
 
CLINTON ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
President Clinton gave a tutorial on the Democratic school of economic theory and the "proven failure" of the Reagan-style fiscal policies Republicans are advocating. B9
 
FORMER OFFICIALS DEFEND NORTH
Two Reagan Administration officials defended Oliver North, Republican candidate for Senate in Virginia, against charges of wrongdoing in Nicaragua a decade ago. B9
 
A MUSEUM FOR P.O.W.'s
Andersonville, Ga., the site of the infamous Civil War prison, will 1become the site of the nation's only museum dedicated to the nation's prisoners of war from the Revolution to Somalia. A16
 
FEEDING THE HUNGRY, TEXAS STYLE
A Texas food bank has built a food-dehydrating plant to process produce donated by local farmers for use in feeding the hungry. A18
 
SETTLEMENT FOR N.A.A.C.P.
Benjamin Chavis Jr. agreed to withdraw his suit for wrongful termination against the N.A.A.C.P. without receiving the substantial sum he had been seeking. A19
 
The Simpson trial judge rejected a motion to dismiss jurors. A18
 
The Houston ship channel reopened after crews removed debris. A16
 
Metro Digest B1
 
GIULIANI ENDORSES CUOMO
In a dramatic break with the Republican Party, Mayor Giuliani threw his formal support behind Governor Cuomo, long a symbol of the liberal tradition. A1
 
BEHIND THE MAYOR'S DECISION
Endorsing Mario M. Cuomo, Giuliani advisers say, came down to a simple idea: that the Mayor's political, governmental and personal self-interest would best be served by having him as Governor. A1
 
REVISIONS TO STATE JURY SYSTEM
In a major overhaul of New York State's jury system, a package of changes have been announced that are aimed at making jury duty more bearable. A1
 
7,600 CITY JOBS TO BE CUT
Mayor Giuliani and municipal union leaders reached an agreement on a plan to cut another 7,600 jobs from the city's payroll by offering severance packages. A1
 
Science Times C1-13
 
Some ecologists not only find the good in fires, they set them. C1
 
A man with no receptors sheds light on the hormone's role in males. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
Poetry plagiarism. C15
 
Art stolen by Nazis goes on display in Paris. C15
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports B12-17
 
Fashion Page B11
 
Obituaries B9-10
 
Raul Julia, actor. B10
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Mr. Giuliani's thunderbolt.
 
Indecent California proposition.
 
Rivlin memo and fiscal honesty.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: The anarchy vogue.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: A tour of Syria.
 
John D. Holum: Don't put allies at nuclear risk.
 
John Pike: Don't imperil the nuclear treaty.
 
M. G. Lord: What that survey didn't say.
 
Chronicle B22
 
Chess C13
 
Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); HAITI (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); ARCTIC (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); HAITI (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); ARCTIC (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); OIL SPILLS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (56%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (55%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (56%); MITT ROMNEY (55%); TED KENNEDY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



609 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Campaigning On Economy, Clinton Plays The Teacher

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Having played to voters' emotions in a weekend of campaigning, President Clinton went for their minds today, giving a group of business people a long tutorial on the Democratic school of economic theory, complete with numbers and charts.
And like a lot of postgraduate seminars, it included some tough slogging. 
 But in the hourlong session, Mr. Clinton seemed to win over his audience by comparing his statistics -- all of them rosy -- with what he called the "proven failure" of the Reagan-style fiscal policies Republicans advocate in this campaign.
What is more, he brought the crowd to its feet with a deft rebuke of a Republican member of Congress, Martin R. Hoke of Ohio, who in a question-and-answer session after the speech tried to show that he was smarter than the professor.
Speaking to members of the City Club, a business group that sponsors speeches and political debates, Mr. Clinton presented the intellectual version of his criticism of the Republicans' "Contract With America" campaign platform.
Among other pledges, the Republicans say they will cut taxes and balance the Federal budget if voters give them control of Congress. Mr. Clinton called such statements "easy promises," and tried to make the case that his economic policies would prove more effective if voters gave him the time to carry them out.
The President loosed a deluge of numbers, led by the Treasury Department's announcement today that the Federal deficit for the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30 was $203 billion. That is well below the $220 billion the Treasury predicted in July, and far below the $305 billion projected when Mr. Clinton took office 21 months ago.
Furthermore, Mr. Clinton said the United States led the world in automobile production for the first time since 1979; that American automobile exports to Mexico were up 500 percent since the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, and that, since he took office, 4.6 million new jobs had been created and private investment in new equipment had grown eightfold.
All this, Mr. Clinton said, could be attributed to the Democratic budget that Congress passed in 1993, and from his Administration's efforts to liberalize world trade, provide more education and job-training programs, help the inner cities and shrink the Federal bureaucracy. The progress, he added, "required a reversal of the policies of the last 12 years."
Mr. Clinton mocked critics of his strategy, starting with Republicans. "When the deficit reduction plan passed," he said, referring to the $450 billion of tax increases and spending cuts enacted in 1993, "there was speech after speech saying, 'Gosh, if we do this, the economy will collapse, the deficit will explode, middle-class taxpayers will be bankrupted, this will be the end of the world.' " None of that happened, the President noted.
Mr. Clinton acknowledged that many Americans still felt their lives had not improved, but for that, he blamed the uneven nature of the economic recovery and a press -- he later called it "attack journalism" -- that celebrated crisis and ignored progress.
Speaking of the Republican platform, Mr. Clinton said, "I don't think this contract is a good idea because it promises everybody a tax cut; it promises a defense increase; promises to revive Star Wars and promises to balance the budget." In contrast, he said, "the responsible thing to do is to take your licks and say, 'Look for the long run; look for the long run.' "
That set up a confrontation with Representative Hoke, who appeared after Mr. Clinton's speech. Noting that the President was on record as supporting some elements of the Republican platform, like welfare reform, the Congressman said he found it "outrageous" that Mr. Clinton had poked fun at the "Contract With America" on the campaign trail by dubbing it the "Contract on America."
"As one of its signers, your suggestion that I would take out a contract on my constituents is a suggestion that I take very, very personally," Mr. Hoke said. "At a time when the public is so concerned about violent crime, why would you resort to using such talk, in such an inflammatory way?"
Mr. Clinton seized the question to repeat his objections to the Republican platform, and to add, "I appreciate your concern about crime and violence." Then he said, "I wish you hadn't voted against the Brady Bill and the crime bill."
That brought the crowd of perhaps a thousand to its feet, and drew the loudest and most sustained applause Mr. Clinton has seen on the speech circuit in some time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning in Cleveland yesterday, President Clinton used charts and numbers in an hourlong talk to a business group on the benefits of Democratic economic policy. He also had time to hug Mary Poldruhi. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CLEVELAND (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



610 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Aristide Picks a Prime Minister With Free-Market Ideas

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Oct. 24

 BODY:
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide selected an American-educated commodities trader as Prime Minister today, political figures said. They saw the move as placing a strong supporter of the free market in a position to oversee the overhaul of the country's staggering economy.
President Aristide is expected to make the formal appointment of the new Prime Minister, Smarck Michel, on Tuesday. Today's action clears the way for the appointment of a new Cabinet and serves as a compromise between left-leaning figures in the Aristide Government and the business community. Business leaders have been clamoring for a Prime Minister able to oversee a new economic plan acceptable to the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and the business community here. 
 Mr. Michel's pragmatic, pro-market stance and his role as a successful businessman make him a generally palatable choice for the United States and international organizations and a reasonable selection for Haiti's elite, most political experts here agree.
Though not a technocrat, Mr. Michel is expected to be able to steer the Government as it moves to carry out a broad-reaching economic plan that includes privatizing large industries and providing much-needed jobs.
His Cabinet is expected to include people like Leslie Voltaire and Leslie Delatour, two economists who helped draw up the Government's new economic program. The current Finance Minister, Marie Michelle Rey, another architect of that plan, is also expected to assume a prominent role in the Government.
Each has been considered for importnant ministries like finance, commerce and planning, and for the central bank, people close to the Government said. The parceling those positions has not been announced.
Mr. Michel's longtime ties to President Aristide, for whom he acted as an unofficial campaign manager in 1990, make him a trustworthy ally and a reassuring choice to Aristide associates who feared the President might be forced to appoint someone far from their inner circle.
Some of President Aristide's critics, however, were quick to condemn the choice as a repetition of old mistakes. They described the selection of Mr. Michel as a short-sighted move that will allow President Aristide to exert near total control from behind the scenes. And they said they still rankle at what they described as the Aristide Government's inability to guide the country's economy during the President's eight months in office in 1991.
Mr. Michel was the Commerce Minister for the first five months of President Aristide's term. He resigned the post two months before the President was ousted in a violent coup. People close to Mr. Michel said he resigned in frustration over the Government's disorganization and what he perceived to be an unrealistic Government stance on the arbitrary lowering of food prices.
Any bitterness over that split was softened in the intervening years, however. A family member said today that the two men were in frequent contact during the President's exile. Mr. Michel denied requests for an interview. He scheduled a news conference for Tuesday. However, late this evening, when a telephone call was made to the family's house, one of Mr. Michel's daughters alluded to the volatility of the political situation here, saying, "We are still anxiously awaiting the announcement."
Mr. Michel's name was first floated as a leading candidate a week ago, but he resisted the overture and speculation shifted to Mr. Delatour, Mr. Voltaire and Mrs. Rey.
Claudette Werleigh, a more leftist-oriented Aristide loyalist who now serves as Foreign Minister, was also widely considered a contender for the post, though her more radical politics would have made that selection much more difficult at a time when all eyes are on the economy.
Last week, when President Aristide said during a news conference that he was leaning toward appointing a woman, Mrs. Werleigh and Mrs. Rey seemed the two leading candidates. Furious negotiations at the week's end, however, moved the President back toward Mr. Michel, who by then indicated he might be willing to take the post.
In the confusion that reigned in the selection process, Robert Malval, the Prime Minister appointed after the Governors Island accord with the military leaders in July 1993, was put forward. But he has often said he would not accept; his frustrations over the political situation that followed the Governors Island agreement are widely known.
Mr. Michel's position may, in fact, be short lived. According to the Constitution, the Prime Minister must come from the majority party in Parliament. With elections scheduled for later this year or early in 1995, a political shift there could mean that President Aristide will have to go through the entire process again. Even if he does not, the Government has only about 15 months to begin the task of reworking Haiti's economy. President Aristide's five-year term, which began in 1991, expires in February 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Smarck Michel, whom political figures said has been chosen to become Prime Minister of Haiti, at his home. (Phillippe Diederich/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (BIS) (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRIME MINISTERS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); TRENDS (72%); COUPS (60%); FOOD PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHEL, SMARCK; MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); SMARCK MICHEL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



611 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Weighs Sending Ambassador to Zaire, a Dictator's Fief

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, Oct. 24

 BODY:
In a sign of support for a new Prime Minister's reform efforts in a country led by one of Africa's most corrupt and repressive governments, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott made a brief visit here today and said Washington was considering sending an ambassador to Zaire.
Mr. Talbott, who is on a tour of several African countries, met with Prime Minister Kengo Wa Dondo during a stopover between visits to Malawi and Ghana. 
 In carefully worded comments about the visit, Mr. Talbott said United States backing for the new Prime Minister would be closely coordinated with his reform efforts and did not represent an embrace of Zaire's long-reigning dictator, Mobutu Sese Seko.
Officials in Mr. Talbott's party said Mr. Kengo could not succeed in office without a measure of support from Zaire's traditional foreign partners: the United States, Belgium and France. And if he fails, they said, Zaire, one of Africa's largest countries, with one-quarter the land mass of the United States and 41 million inhabitants, is in danger of disintegration.
"We are considering sending an ambassador, which would be a modest step," Mr. Talbott said. "After all, we have ambassadors in a lot of countries where we disagree with things happening there."
Critics of Mr. Kengo say the Prime Minister, who was appointed in July, has already twice led governments under Mr. Mobutu. In the end, they say, Mr. Kengo will prove as unwilling or unable to change Mr. Mobutu's system of tight political control as in the past.
A 1991 conference that sought unsuccessfully to organize a democratic transition in Zaire cited Mr. Kengo for large-scale embezzlement during his two previous stints as Prime Minister in the early and late 1980's. He has also been accused of playing a role in the massacre of students at Lovanium University in Zaire in 1969, when he was Justice Minister.
Mr. Talbott said that for now United States cooperation with Zaire, largely suspended after violent riots in 1991, would remain limited to relief supplies. Even diplomats who support the current opening to Zaire acknowledge that in addition to using Mr. Kengo, Mr. Mobutu has repeatedly used the tactic of presenting putatively reform-minded Prime Ministers to the West as a means of buying himself time to refill his coffers and undo his adversaries.
Western diplomats, including Mr. Talbott's delegation, credit Mr. Kengo with moves to rein in ruinous inflation and to reimpose state authority over a formal economy that has virtually ceased to exist.
Among Mr. Kengo's early reform measures has been a still-unresolved bid to remove what diplomats describe as Mobutu cronies from the Central Bank, and efforts to bring the lucrative diamond mining industry back under state control.
Mr. Mobutu has begun to emerge from his own diplomatic isolation, undertaking a trip to Japan and China in the last week and planning a visit to France next month to take part in the annual French-African summit meeting. Mr. Mobutu was banned from visiting France for more than two years after the French Ambassador to Zaire was killed in the 1991 riots.
In a brief interview at Kinshasa Airport, where he met with Mr. Talbott, Mr. Kengo pledged that he would work toward national elections sometime in the next year. "We are moving toward a rehabilitation of the economy that is capital," he said. "For this we must restore the authority of the state, restructure the army and guarantee the liberty of our citizens."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); AFRICA (95%); MALAWI (92%); FRANCE (79%); GHANA (79%); BELGIUM (56%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAIRE; AFRICA; UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); AFRICA (95%); MALAWI (92%); FRANCE (79%); GHANA (79%); BELGIUM (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ZAIRE; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); MINES & MINING (50%); DIAMOND MINING (50%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; DONDO, KENGO WA (PRIME MIN); MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES); TALBOTT, STROBE (DEPUTY SEC) STROBE TALBOTT (94%); MOBUTU SESE SEKO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



612 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hints at Better Ties if Syria Signs Peace Pact With Israel

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Secretary of State Warren Christopher held out the prospect of improved relations with Syria today if Damascus made peace with Israel and cracked down on terrorists along Israel's northern border.
In openly broaching the idea, which could lead to a flow of Western aid to Syria, Mr. Christopher was seeking to coax Damascus to move ahead in its nearly stalled peace talks with Israel. 
 "In an environment of genuine and comprehensive peace in which there'll be no place for terrorists on Israel's borders, we can look to the day when relations between Syria and the United States will improve," said Mr. Christopher in an address at Georgetown University.
With President Clinton scheduled to visit Damascus on Wednesday as part of a trip to six countries in the Middle East, Administration officials sought today to play down the prospects of any major progress toward peace during his visit there, saying any payoff from the visit would be several months down the road. These officials said the most they expect would be some words from President Hafez al-Assad reassuring Israel that he is serious about making peace.
Mr. Christopher did not spell out what improved relations with Syria would mean, but Administration officials said one aspect might be that Washington would stop blocking loans to Damascus from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The officials added that the United States was unlikely to resume foreign aid to Syria because of anticipated Congressional resistance.
To improve relations, Administration officials said, Damascus must first get itself removed from the Administration's list of nations that sponsor terrorism. That would require suppressing the pro-Iranian Party of God guerrillas in Syrian-controlled Southern Lebanon as well as the Damascus-based Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
Administration officials said that in light of the increased insecurity caused by recent terrorism, they fear that it might take a year to seal a peace treaty between Syria and Israel. Just a few weeks ago they were saying such a treaty appeared to be a few months off.
Explaining the President's decision to visit Damascus, a senior official said, "Having the President go there gives you an opportunity you wouldn't have had to give the process a push."
In his speech, Mr. Christopher called for an international ban on financial aid to Hamas and other terrorist organizations and said he would do everything he could to make sure Hamas receives no financial support, directly or indirectly, from people in the United States.
State Department officials said Hamas was receiving millions of dollars from Americans each year. But one senior official said the Administration would seek to prevent Islamic charities that receive American donations from channeling that money to Hamas. An interagency task force is also looking into proposing legislation that would ban all donations to Hamas.
Administration officials said they would press Americans and Arab countries to cut off funds to Hamas, even though they acknowledged that Hamas was engaged in many civil activities, like building schools. A big problem, the officials said, was that Hamas mixed its money between political and military activities.
Hamas officials have claimed responsibility for several recent terrorist acts, among them kidnapping an Israeli soldier two weeks ago and bombing a bus in Tel Aviv last Wednesday, killing 23 people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (96%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (96%); 

COMPANY: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (96%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (96%); 

SUBJECT: SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); HAMAS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); RELIGION (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



613 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
MINNESOTA MINING & MFG. CO. (MMM,N)

 BODY:
The Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company said yesterday that its third-quarter earnings rose 7.9 percent, on strong unit sales and increased productivity.
Net income rose to $341 million, or 81 cents a share, from $316 million, or 73 cents, in the comparable period a year earlier. Sales rose 9.7 percent, to $3.82 billion, from $3.48 billion. 
 The results matched the mean estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.
Minnesota Mining, which is based in St. Paul and makes Post-It Notes, Scotch tape, sandpaper, floppy disks for computers and audio tapes, said unit volumes increased about 9 percent in the United States and 11 percent internationally.
"We continued to see strong volume gains in Latin America and in most countries and Asia," said L. D. DeSimone, the chairman and chief executive, adding that he expected continued increases in earnings in the fourth quarter.
"We expect to benefit from a strong flow of new products, a sharp focus on customer satisfaction, continuous productivity improvement and continued strengthening of the European economies," he said.

GRAPHIC: Table: " MINNESOTA MINING & MFG. CO. (MMM,N)"

Qtr. to Sept. 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	3,820,000,000	3,481,000,000	+9.7	Net inc.	341,000,000	316,000,000	+7.9	Sh. earn	.81	.73	 	Sh. out.	421,400,000	432,900,000	 	9m sls.	11,224,000,000	10,538,000,000	+6.5	Net inc.	990,000,000	977,000,000	+1.3	Sh. earn	2.34	2.24	 	Sh. out.	423,800,000	435,600,000	 	
 
The results for the latest nine months included a $35 million pretax charge for mammary-implant litigation. Before the charge, net income was $1.012 billion, or $2.39 a share.
Share earnings and shares outstanding reflected a 2-for-1 stock split, effective March 15, 1994.
Sales are net sales.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$55.375
Down 50

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (84%); MMM (NYSE) (84%); MMM (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (84%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (67%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO 3M CO (84%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (67%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (50%); 

PERSON: L D DESIMONE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



614 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 6; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Andrew D. Kopkind, Writer on Politics And Editor, 59

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
Andrew D. Kopkind, a political journalist whose work appeared in The New Republic, The New York Review of Books and The Nation, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59 and had homes in Manhattan and Guilford, Vt.
The cause was bladder cancer, said JoAnn Wypijewski, the managing editor of The Nation. 
 Mr. Kopkind was born in New Haven, Conn., and had degrees from Cornell University and the London School of Economics. He began his career at The Washington Post, then was a reporter at Time magazine. In 1965 he joined the staff of The New Republic, covering the civil rights movement and the birth of the New Left on college campuses. He was also the American correspondent for The New Statesman in London.
In 1968 he and James Ridgeway founded the underground newspaper Mayday (later renamed Hard Times), which covered the antiwar, black-power and student movements. He also wrote about the Vietnam War in the magazine Ramparts, where he was a contributing editor.
In the 1970's, Mr. Kopkind also wrote for The Village Voice, The Boston Phoenix and The Real Paper in Boston. Many of his articles dealt with the emerging gay-rights movement. With John Scagliotti, he was the host of "Lavender Hour," a gay radio program on WBCN in Boston.
In 1982, he joined the staff of The Nation, where he wrote many of the magazine's unsigned editorials, as well as articles on politics and foreign policy.
He wrote "America: The Mixed Curse" (1969) and, with Mr. Ridgeway, he edited "Decade of Crisis: America in the 60's" (1972). At the time of his death, he was working on "The Thirty Years' Wars," a collection of his journalism, to be published by Verso next year.
He is survived by Mr. Scagliotti, his companion of 24 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); CANCER (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (72%); BLADDER CANCER (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: KOPKIND, ANDREW D; GRIMES, WILLIAM ANDREW D KOPKIND (92%); JOHN SCAGLIOTTI (72%); JAMES RIDGEWAY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



615 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: New York's Top Judge Plans Overhaul of the Juror System

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN 

 BODY:
In a major overhaul of New York's jury system, the state's top judge announced a package of revisions yesterday aimed at making jury service more bearable -- tours of duty would be shorter, deliberation rooms cleaner, clerks less snappish.
"We cannot ask jurors to perform their civic responsibility in dilapidated surroundings using outmoded procedures," said Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye in unveiling the state courts' first major changes in the jury system since 1977. 
 Some are to begin immediately, with others to be put in place throughout next year. Among the most dramatic is a plan to test a system in January that would speed jury selection, in part by putting time limits on questioning. In addition, prospective jurors in most counties outside New York City would be sent home after one day unless picked for a trial.
Other changes include using defendants sentenced to community service and parolees to augment court-cleaning crews, a plan recently put in practice in courts in lower Manhattan; training in civility for clerks and others who deal with jurors, and adding a voluntary question about race and ethnicity on juror questionnaires to help determine whether minorities are receiving and responding to the forms.
Judge Kaye said the changes were intended to expand the jury pools, shrink the length of service and make that service not only less onerous but also a more efficient use of the juror's time.
The changes amount to a virtual wholesale adoption of recommendations contained in a March report by a statewide panel that excoriated the conditions under which jurors are summoned and serve.
Judge Kaye has the authority to institute many of the reforms announced yesterday under the administrative rules of New York's court system. But another set of changes that she proposed requires legislative approval and seems guaranteed to meet resistance. One would eliminate nearly 20 professions currently exempt from jury service, including lawyers, podiatrists and embalmers. The judge also wants to cut back costly sequestering of juries and raise jurors' compensation, from $15 a day, to $40, the rate paid to jurors in Federal courts.
The judge is also asking for a reduction in the number of challenges that lawyers can use to reject jurors. The challenges now allowed -- 20 for murder, for example -- are among the highest in the country.
"Some of the changes are state of the art," said G. Thomas Munsterman, director of the Center for Jury Studies at the National Center for State Courts, "and others are state of the nation."
Mr. Munsterman said some of the changes, like exit surveys for all jurors and a phone number, (800) NYJUROR, for complaints (and the longed-for compliment), put New York at the forefront of jury reform. He also cited the state's efforts to diversify the jury pool: last summer the State Legislature added lists of people receiving unemployment benefits and public assistance to juror eligibility rolls. Those rolls are already drawn from lists of taxpayers, voters and licensed drivers.
But the one-day-or-one-trial requirement is widespread outside New York State, he said.
That program is already being used in some New York counties. By the start of 1995, Judge Kaye said, all counties except for the four busiest New York City boroughs -- Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens -- will ask jurors to be on call for a week. If not selected for a jury after a day's appearance, they will be dismissed; after finishing a trial, regardless of how short, they can also go home. Now, in some counties, jurors have to sit in courts for up to two weeks.
But to keep jury service short, more bodies are needed, the Chief Judge said. To insure greater compliance on juror summonses, a second notice will be sent out if a form has not been returned within six weeks.
Judge Kaye, who has made jury reform a top priority during her first year and a half as Chief Judge, has also declared war on decrepit juror rooms -- broken chairs, poor heating, peeling paint. In the last year, she apportioned $750,000 for sprucing them up. Yesterday, she announced that crews of parolees and defendants sentenced to community service had begun cleaning up courts in lower Manhattan this fall and that in January more crews would tackle the Brooklyn courts.
Some of the most substantive changes will affect juries in civil cases. New York, Mr. Munsterman of the Center for Jury Studies, in Williamsburg, Va., said, is the only state in which civil lawyers are allowed to select juries free of judicial scrutiny. Jurors complain that the unsupervised lawyers ask intrusive questions and can hold them captive for hours. Then, because lawyers use the threat of a jury verdict as a weapon over their opponents, many cases are settled after a jury is picked but before the first witness is called.
Under Judge Kaye's changes, a pilot project beginning in January in four civil courts around the state, including Manhattan's, will install judges to oversee questioning. The judges will order mandatory settlement conferences just before jury selection begins and give the lawyers time limits on questioning.
Stephan H. Peskin, the immediate past president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, said that in theory the plan sounded good but that "the definition of the judge's supervision is unclear." He said he was concerned that some judges might want to dominate the questioning.
The legislative proposals will be a tough sell. Currently, lawyers can excuse prospective jurors either because they have an obvious bias or because the lawyer has a hunch that the juror could not be impartial. In the most serious criminal cases, lawyers on each side get up to 20 chances to exercise that hunch, called a peremptory challenge.
To make proceedings more efficient, Judge Kaye wants to reduce the peremptory challenges. But G. Robert Witmer Jr., president of the New York State Bar Association, said the opposite result would occur. "Lawyers will be forced to take more time to find a good cause to reject someone they feel but can't demonstrate is not impartial," he said.
An important inducement to assure juror response to summonses would be to raise compensation. While court officials privately conceded that it was unlikely that they would be able to increase jurors' daily pay to as much as $40, they expressed hope that incremental raises would be possible.
Earlier bills in the Legislature to eliminate mandatory sequestering of jurors as well as exempting certain professionals have failed. But E. Leo Milonas, the chief administrative judge, gives these renewed efforts a fighting chance.
The courts spend $4 million a year to house and feed jurors and pay overtime for court officers, Judge Milonas said. "But it's about more than saving money," he said. "More people would serve if they could go home at the end of the day."
As for eliminating occupational exemptions, Judge Milonas said New York had more exemptions than almost any other state. "At least we might be able to narrow the list," he said. The current proposal would abolish exemptions for every job category except judges.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JURY SYSTEM JURY TRIALS (94%); JUDGES (91%); JURY DUTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PAROLE (78%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN; KAYE, JUDITH S (CHIEF JUDGE) JUDITH S KAYE (84%); G THOMAS MUNSTERMAN (61%); JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



616 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: The Rivlin Memo and Fiscal Honesty

 BODY:
Newt Gingrich, the House Republican whip, raised political hypocrisy to new levels this weekend when, citing a leaked White House memo, he accused Democrats of threatening Social Security and Medicare. This from the author of a "Contract With America" -- which, by pledging to whack a trillion dollars out of the Federal budget, would virtually guarantee huge cuts in entitlements.
The decision by the memo's author, Budget Director Alice Rivlin, to put budget options in writing during election season may not have been the brightest political move. But at least she, unlike Mr. Gingrich, tried honestly to confront the nation's fiscal problems. 
 The Federal deficit is expected to rise from about $170 billion next year to about $235 billion by the end of the decade. That would keep the deficit at about 2.5 percent of gross national product, which many economists do not find worrisome. The deficit problem does become threatening after 2010, when it should begin to rise to about 6 percent of G.N.P. Even this level would not hurt the economy if the extra Federal borrowing were devoted to investments like schools, telecommunications and transportation.
But Ms. Rivlin fears the borrowing will siphon money away from capital markets, and thereby from private investment, in order to pay for what she fears would be Congressional frivolities. She favors budget surpluses so that U.S. saving rises closer to the rates of other industrialized countries.
Her memo outlines, without recommendations, dozens of ways to reduce the long-term deficit. For example, it estimates the budgetary savings of limiting cost-of-living allowances for Social Security beneficiaries, cutting tax deductions for mortgage interest on second homes, taxing capital gains (profit on investments) of deceased investors, imposing a national sales tax, eliminating tax deductions for state and local taxes. Her memo also outlines ways to cut taxes on middle-class families. Mr. Gingrich did not emphasize those options.
Ms. Rivlin knew such ideas were incendiary, so she retrieved copies of the memo she distributed at a White House gathering. Apparently, someone -- a senior Administration official, according to William Kristol of the Project for the Republican Future -- leaked a draft copy to Republicans. Mr. Gingrich pounced.
Ms. Rivlin may exaggerate the benefit of deficit cutting -- especially since Congress would probably achieve the goal by eviscerating job retraining, research and development, infrastructure and other valuable investment. But when government, and business, are accused of economic myopia, she deserves credit for taking the long view. Her options include modest ways to control the rate of growth of entitlements; she outlines no bloodletting.
As the Social Security Trust Fund runs dry and health expenditures of an aging population soar, Congress will have to cut spending or raise taxes sooner or later. Made sooner, the cuts need hammer no one hard. Made later, they will hurt.
The political fallout of Mr. Gingrich's opportunistic barrage is that he and a defensive President Clinton have now launched tit-for-tat promises to voters that they would, for example, unalterably oppose touching Social Security or Medicare, even for the rich. By ruling huge chunks of the budget undiscussable -- and ridiculing a public official who dared face unpleasant facts -- Washington threatens to smother serious debate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX LAW (86%); INCOME TAX (86%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (86%); AGING TRENDS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); SALES TAX (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); COST OF LIVING (74%); AGING (73%); TAX RELIEF (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (68%); FAMILY (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR); RIVLIN, ALICE M (DEPUTY DIR) NEWT GINGRICH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



617 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Indecent Proposition in California

 BODY:
If the polls are right, a mean-spirited, impractical and probably unconstitutional California ballot initiative is headed for easy victory Nov. 8.
Proposition 187 would deny public education, non-emergency medical care and other state and locally funded benefits to illegal aliens. Gov. Pete Wilson has made support for Proposition 187 a central theme of his re-election campaign. The Republican senatorial challenger, Michael Huffington, also backs the measure. 
 Mr. Wilson's Democratic challenger, Kathleen Brown, opposes it, as does Mr. Huffington's opponent, Senator Dianne Feinstein, President Clinton and two leading conservative Republicans, former Education Secretary William Bennett and former Housing Secretary Jack Kemp.
Proposition 187, named "Save Our State" by its proponents, is based on the premise that California's social services are the main magnet drawing illegal immigrants across the border. Turning off that magnet, they argue, will deter new arrivals.
But no matter how harsh benefit policies become, the lure of California's jobs and wages are likely to keep attracting Mexicans, Central Americans and others over the border and keep most of the 1.5 million illegal aliens now estimated to be in the state from voluntarily returning home.
Interestingly enough, when he was a Senator in 1986, Mr. Wilson fought hard for a provision in that year's immigration law that let hundreds of thousands of aliens enter the U.S. for temporary farm harvest jobs. A fair number presumably stayed on to become today's illegals.
Illegal aliens, by definition, have no legal right to be in the U.S. Failures in Federal immigration policy and enforcement put a fiscal burden on the handful of states where most of these people settle, like California and New York. This burden is partly offset by the economic contributions alien workers make and mitigated by the fact that illegal aliens cannot lawfully receive most welfare benefits. But they are constitutionally entitled, according to a 1982 Supreme Court decision, to a public education for their children, and they can now receive medical treatment at publicly funded facilities.
These benefits cost state taxpayers money. But the right answer is not to throw alien children and the ill onto the streets. It is to increase Federal aid to compensate states for the consequences of Federal immigration policies. Yet Senator Feinstein now warns that the punitive provisions of Proposition 187 could lead Washington to cut off as much as $15 billion in health and education aid.
Politicians supporting Proposition 187 concede that portions of it may be unconstitutional under current Supreme Court rulings. But they hope its passage could trigger a court fight to overturn those rulings. Even if successful, that legal fight could cost California taxpayers plenty.
Ms. Feinstein opposes Proposition 187 on pragmatic and financial grounds. Ms. Brown opposes it on humanitarian principle. Mr. Bennett and Mr. Kemp cite traditional conservative support for economic opportunity and opposition to Big Brother intrusiveness.
Governor Wilson brushes off such criticisms and has effectively used the illegal alien issue, which he links to fears about crime and jobs, to revive his campaign. The polls, which once showed him more than 20 points behind, now have him more than 10 points ahead. He is again being talked about as a 1996 Presidential contender.
Whatever his other merits, his handling of this issue should give pause to conservatives and liberals alike.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LITIGATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); BALLOTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); REFUGEES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPEALS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



618 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Yield on the Long Bond Ends the Day Above 8%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell in light trading yesterday, with the yield on the long bond ending at more than 8 percent after toying with that significant threshold for two weeks.
A weak dollar and apprehension ahead of the Government's report on Friday on the gross domestic product helped to drag bond prices down. 
 A supply of new Government securities this week is also weighing on prices. The Treasury is selling $55.45 billion in new bills and notes this week. With that much paper to sell, traders said, dealers may want to make yields more attractive to customers by lowering prices.
In when-issued trading ahead of today's two-year note auction, the two-year was being offered at a price to yield 6.87 percent and the five-year was being offered at a price to yield 7.52 percent. The yield on the two-year note is up 6 basis points from Friday, and the yield on five-year note is up 7 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 23/32 to 9329/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 8.04 percent, up from 7.97 percent on Friday and the highest since April 29, 1992, when it was 8.05 percent. At the Treasury's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills yesterday, rates rose to their highest levels in three years.
With bond yields as high as they are now, fixed-income products are now more attractive to investors, Charles Roden, managing director and head of fixed-income investing for Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said.
"Our fixed-income desk is starting to get busy again, people are fishing more for better returns," he said. In the municipal market where investors are waiting for even higher yields, they are already attractive.
"Those who run portfolios are hurriedly reassessing their positions," Mr. Roden said. "The long end of the market is higher than where I thought it would be months ago."
Chris Moore, a fixed-income analyst for Technical Data in Boston, said: "The $64 question now is how far will rates have to go where they will start to affect business. Right now you can ask 10 people and you'll get 10 different answers."
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said on CNN yesterday that the economy was robust, but that he saw no signs of inflation. Some traders said his comments heightened speculation about whether the Federal Reserve would move soon on interest rates after strong economic news and hints of inflation last week.
"Recent economic releases require market participants to anticipate a strong G.D.P. number later this week and that will keep the market on the defensive," Mr. Moore of Technical Data said. "The strength of the economy has most market participants anticipating at least one more Fed tightening before the year's end; the market has taken that anticipation as an excuse to sell bonds."
The market appears to be split on whether the Fed will move on interest rates this week. Some traders and analysts say the chances of a move before the Fed's policy-making committee meets on Nov. 15 are slim.
In other trading yesterday, the Manhattan Card Company, a Hong Kong-based subsidiary of the Chase Manhattan Bank, sold $200 million worth of certificates backed by credit card assets.
The offering was the first time in which credit card receivables originating from Hong Kong have been sold as securities in the United States.
The certificates were priced at par with a floating rate coupon of 25 basis points more than the one-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor. The certificates have an average life of 4.91 years. The deal is being managed by Chase Securities.
The following are the results of yesteray's auction of new three and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.718	97.214	Discounted Rate	5.07%	5.51%	Coupon Yield	5.21%	5.75%	High Price	98.726	97.225	Discounted Rate	5.04%	5.49%	Coupon Yield	5.18%	5.72%	Low Price	98.716	97.214	Discounted Rate	5.08%	5.51%	Coupon Yield	5.22%	5.75%	Accepted at low price	33%	37%	Total applied for	$46,969,845	$50,462,704	Accepted	$13,619,160	$13,610,802	Noncompetitive	$1,238,540	$1,018,569	
 
Both issues are dated Oct. 27, 1994. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 26, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on April 27, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from July to Oct. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CHRIS MOORE (58%); CHARLES RODEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



619 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Markets
 Stocks slumped, weighed down by higher interest rates and a weak dollar. The S.& P. 500 fell 4.06 points. [Page D1.] 
 Gasoline prices surged on signs that supplies in the Northeast were being curtailed by two pipeline explosions. [D17.]
 The dollar was weaker against most leading currencies. [D17.]
 The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond finished above 8 percent, at the highest level in two and a half years. [D18.]
 
The Economy
 The prohibition of penalties for paying off mortgages early raises the loans' costs, housing finance experts say. Lenders charge higher rates and fees on new mortgages with no prepayment penalty because it is not clear when the mortgages will be repaid. Such fees weigh heaviest on low-income home buyers. [D1.]
 A global credit crunch could keep interest rates high for the next several years. Federal Reserve officials, who have been trying to hold down rates in the United States, see that their efforts may be thwarted by an unusual convergence of global trends. [D1.]
 The S.E.C. is seeking to revamp the municipal bond market. The agency hopes new regulations will make the market look more like the stock or corporate bond markets. [D1.]
 The Houston Ship Channel reopened after flood debris was cleared from one of the nation's busiest ports. [A16.]
 Microbrewing is rapidly expanding in the New York region. [B1.]
 
Companies
 Piper Jaffray said it would pump $5 million into a mutual fund, the American Adjustable Rate Term Trust fund. [D2.]
 The trial of General Electric on charges that it helped fix prices of industrial diamonds is getting under way. [D2.]
 Du Pont, Shell and Hoechst Celanese will pay at least $750 million to settle a class-action lawsuit stemming from the use of plastic pipes in six million homes in the United States. [D4.]
 Exxon, Amoco and ARCO showed strong quarterly gains from their chemical businesses and from higher crude oil prices. [D4.]
 Cisco Systems agreed to acquire Kalpana, a computer switching company, in a stock swap valued at $204 million. [D4.]
 Two tobacco processing giants agreed to merge. Dibrell Brothers and Monk-Austion will form a $1.4-billion company. [D4.]
 Intel and CNN will offer a service that allows business personal computer users to view news broadcasts on their screens. [D4.]
 To rejuvenate its management ranks, Toyota Motor will set age limits for managers of certain positions. [D16.]
 In a sign of more turmoil at at Time Warner's music group, Lenny Waronker, the president of Warner Brothers Records, said he would not succeed the group's chairman, Mo Ostin. [D20.]
 Barry Diller warned magazine executives at an industry conference to slow their rush to new electronic media. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
 The key to saving USAir lies with its pilots. Without concessions from the pilots, the carrier seems headed for a bankruptcy filing. But there are many reasons the pilots will probably blink first and help reduce USAir's costs. Market Place. [D1.]
 The managers of Ayer are trying to overhaul the big agency by seeking a medium-sized identity. One sign of change is a new name: N. W. Ayer & Partners. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); PJC (NYSE) (54%); CE (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%); TYT (LSE) (51%); TM (NYSE) (51%); 7203 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (53%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); CELANESE CORP (53%); INTEL CORP (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CHEMICALS (86%); CARTELS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (79%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); PLASTIC PIPES & FITTINGS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); LITIGATION (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



620 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: A Mortgage Penalty, or a Plus?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
What sounds like a consumer-friendly provision -- the prohibition in many states of penalties for homeowners who pay off their mortgages early -- actually raises the cost of mortgages, experts in housing finance say. And that has the effect of forcing low-income home buyers to subsidize high-income home buyers, they add.
The problem, the experts say, is that lenders demand higher interest rates and higher fees on new mortgages with no prepayment penalty because they are not sure how soon the mortgage will be repaid. So all the homeowners who never pay off mortgages early, because they did not move or refinance, wind up paying for a benefit they do not use. 
 A few lenders, including Bank of America, the nation's second-largest bank, and Home Savings of America, California's largest savings institution, are offering mortgages with prepayment penalties. In exchange for giving up the right to repay their mortgage at any time, borrowers get various combinations of a lower interest rate or lower fees.
But most other lenders, including Countrywide Credit Industries of Pasadena, Calif., the nation's largest issuer of home mortgages, do not offer mortgages with prepayment penalties. Bank of America and Home Savings can offer the unusual mortgages because California is not one of the 12 states that ban the practice.
In California, more than $5 billion of mortgages issued by the Bank of America last year, for more than 30,000 homes, included a penalty if they were prepaid within three years of issuance. Those home buyers chose an option, which for a $150,000 loan would require them to pay a penalty of about $2,400 if they repaid the loan within three years, but eliminated $3,003 of cash payments required at closing. In other cases, homeowners accepting a penalty clause received an interest rate three-quarters of 1 percent below the rate of mortgages with no prepayment penalty.
"Low- and moderate-income families have told us over and over again that the biggest problem in obtaining a mortgage is accumulating the cash they need at closing," said Sylvia L. Reynolds, senior vice president at Bank of America. For loans with prepayment penalties, the bank can afford to eliminate fees it normally charges when a mortgage is issued, she said, because it can be more confident that the loan will be outstanding long enough to earn a profit. If the loan is prepaid, then the bank collects a penalty of 2 percent of 80 percent of the loan amount.
Experts say the burden of fees charged by lenders when loans are issued is heaviest on low-income borrowers, often members of minority groups. "The rules of the mortgage market, with the near-total ban on prepayment penalties, amount to more than just a subsidy of the wealthier borrowers by the poorer; it is one of the reasons that restrict poor people from getting a mortgage in the first place," said Peter Chinloy, a professor of real estate at American University in Washington.
Mr. Chinloy said poor people, particularly those of racial minorities, are less likely to prepay their mortgages because they have fewer opportunities to shift jobs or move to new homes.
Of course, the right to repay old, high-interest-rate mortgages with a new, lower-interest mortgage -- without any penalty -- has proved to be a tremendous benefit to millions of homeowners, particularly those with fixed-rate mortgages. The lower interest payments on new mortgages left homeowners with more money to spend elsewhere and helped pull the economy out of its downturn earlier in this decade.
The lack of prepayment penalties also helps homeowners with adjustable-rate mortgages who benefit from lower interest rates without refinancing, but who decide to pay off a mortgage early for other reasons, like moving to a different neighborhood, buying a bigger home or getting a divorce. The prepayment penalty only applies to payments that exceed 20 percent of the mortgage in a single year, and thus does not affect those mortgage holders who make small additional payments to reduce their principal. The prepayment penalties also generally expire after three years.
But for all the homeowners who have not refinanced their mortgage to take advantage of lower interest rates or because they wanted to move, the higher rates and fees on mortgages that lack prepayment penalties force them to pay for a provision that provides no benefit.
"If people were offered loans with prepayment penalties they might well want to opt for them because they could get a lower interest rate," said Robert Van Order, chief economist at the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac. "As a general principle, prepayment penalties ought to be allowed."
Mr. Van Order said borrowers in minority neighborhoods could be among the greatest beneficiaries of loans with prepayment penalties because studies by his agency have found that mortgage loans in such neighborhoods are prepaid only about 75 percent as often as in white neighborhoods.
One big roadblock to widespread use of loans with prepayment penalties is that at least 12 states prohibit them. To simplify record-keeping, the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac adopted a ban long ago on prepayment penalties as a standard part of the mortgage contracts they buy.
A recent article in the Journal of Housing Research, written by Mr. Chinloy and Isaac F. Megbolugbe, director of housing research at Fannie Mae, noted that standards for mortgages eligible for purchase by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac amount to a "de facto prohibition against prepayment penalties."
Both agencies, which specialize in buying mortgages and repackaging them as securities, have talked with lenders about changing their policies to more readily accept mortgages with prepayment penalties. But interest in that change declined sharply when interest rates began rising earlier this year, and, for now, neither agency encourages lenders to offer home mortgages with prepayment penalties.
Ms. Reynolds of Bank of America noted that the new generation of prepayment penalties was much different from the older penalties that angered enough state legislators to bring on the bans. In the past, she noted, prepayment penalties were included in loans with no compensation to borrowers in the form of lower interest rates or lower fees, and the penalties were even charged to borrowers who had been paying off their loans for decades.
The absence of prepayment penalties on loans that are packaged as securities has not gone unnoticed by investors. In periods of falling interest rates, such as the early 1990's, they lost hundreds of millions of dollars because the mortgage-backed securities they held melted away when homeowners refinanced their old mortgages and the securities backing those mortgages were retired years sooner than expected.
Because of that risk, lenders and investors in mortgage securities require higher interest rates than if the mortgage loans were not prepayable. Mr. Chinloy and Mr. Megbolugbe estimated that the higher interest rate required as compensation for the risk of prepayment is about 63-hundredths of a percentage point for fixed-rate 30-year mortgages and seven-tenths of a percentage point for 15-year mortgages.
Despite that extra cost, organizations that help low-income families obtain mortgages are not proponents of mortgages with prepayment penalties.
Bruce Dorpalen, national director of the loan counseling program of Acorn, an organization that has often pushed for more lending in minority neighborhoods, said the low-income people whom his organization helps in obtaining mortgages hold their loans longer than the general public. But even so, he said, Acorn has not pushed any of the nearly 50 lenders with whom it works closely to modify their mortgages to offer lower interest rates and fees in exchange for some prepayment penalties.
In the Journal of Housing Policy, Mr. Chinloy and Mr. Megbolugbe concluded that greater flexibility in mortgages could help make the loans more affordable and available to low-income home buyers. They suggested that lenders develop mortgages for low-income borrowers with prepayment penalties, and use some of the savings to buy additional default insurance, since the risk of default is one of the primary reasons low-income borrowers are denied mortgages.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Agreeing to Stay Put" shows comparable variable-rate mortgages on California properties from Bank of America. (Source: Bank of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA; HOME SAVINGS OF AMERICA (IRWINDALE, CALIF) BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); HOME SAVINGS OF AMERICA FSB (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA; HOME SAVINGS OF AMERICA (IRWINDALE, CALIF)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); FAMILY (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL PETER CHINLOY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



621 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall As Rates Exceed 8%

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market faltered again yesterday as long-term interest rates punched past 8 percent, after flirting with that psychologically important level for three weeks.
The Dow fell 36.00 points to 3,855.30, while the broader S.& P. 500 declined 4.06 points to 460.83. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 4.17 points to 761.21. 
 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond finished at 8.04 percent, the highest close since April 29, 1992, and the first time long-term interest rates have ended the trading day above 8 percent since April 30, 1992. [Page D18.]
Stocks faltered despite higher operating earnings at Caterpillar and Exxon, both component stocks for both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500. The dollar did not help. Its continuing fall in international markets has discouraged foreigners from buying American securities.
And stocks slumped in advance of important economic data and Government bond sales this week. September existing-home sales are due today, durable-goods orders tomorrow and the Commerce Department's initial estimate of third-quarter economic growth on Friday.
Also, more than $55 billion in Treasury bills and notes are to be auctioned this week, and uncertainty is apparent.
"Normally, you'd expect money to start flowing from stocks to bonds because the yields are so nice," said David Holt, market strategist for Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles. "But money's perceptive these days. Why buy now when sheer momentum might get you 8.1 percent next week?"
Terrence Crowe, vice president-fixed income arbitrage at Nikko Securities International, said portfolio managers had been hurt so badly in the bond market this year that when a large fund decided not to buy bonds, it often waited for six months or longer.
"It will take more than 8 percent to change the environment," Mr. Crowe said. "It will take soft economic news and some indication that the Fed has stopped tightening."
A key indicator will be bond traders' reception today of the Treasury Department's $17 billion auction of two-year notes, Mr. Crowe said. How they price that issue will indicate how high the Federal Reserve is expected to raise short-term interest rates in the near future.
If, as seems likely, the yield for the notes is 6.87 percent, that would indicate a premium of more than 2 percentage points over the current Federal Funds rate of 4.75 percent -- an unusually high gap, he said.
That would mean that bond traders were already pricing the two-year notes on the assumption that the Fed will raise its short-term interest rate target to at least 5.25 percent, and perhaps higher. The Fed's next policy meeting is set for Nov. 15, but it could act even sooner, some analysts say.
Stock traders are in a bind. Earnings are better than ever, but the strong economy that produced those earnings is alarming the bond market with inflation fears and scaring the few bond buyers remaining.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was normal with 287.64 million shares changing hands, close to this year's average of 288 million shares. Two stocks declined for every one that rose, or 1,537 losers compared to 698 advancers.
The stock slump came when the New York Stock Exchange established a trading record: the total dollar value of trading to date hit $2 trillion yesterday, fully 17 trading days ahead of the date last year when dollar volume hit that level.
The notable stocks were all related to quarterly earnings reports. Caterpillar rose 1 7/8 to 58 1/4 after the maker of heavy equipment, a favorite cyclical stock, announced third quarter operating profits that beat Wall Street estimates. US Healthcare rose 1 3/4 to 47 after the healthcare company reported sharply higher quarterly earnings.
But not every company with strong earnings was rewarded. Exxon fell 3/8 to 59 1/2 after reporting earnings far ahead of analysts' estimates. But analysts questioned profit margins at key subsidiaries. And Airborne Freight fell 6 3/8 to 19 1/8 when it surprised analysts with a 23 percent decline in quarterly profit.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 2.09 points to 253.5, and the American Stock Exchange market value index fell 2.62 points to 453.73.
Of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 20 fell, led by Aluminum Company of America, which was off 2 1/2, to 86 1/4, after a Paine Webber analyst cut his recommendation to neutral from buy. Of the 500 component stocks of the S.& P. 500, 340 fell, led by Coca-Cola, which lost 7/8, closing at 49 3/8, on unconfirmed speculation that it would buy Snapple Beverage. Snapple, in turn, was the most-active stock, at 8.7 million shares; it fell 7/16 to 14 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (54%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); AUCTIONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY TERRENCE CROWE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



622 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Higher Rates Worldwide Seen by Fed

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Federal Reserve officials, struggling to hold down long-term interest rates in the United States, are increasingly convinced that an unusual convergence of global trends may keep rates high around the world for the next several years.
They and officials at the Treasury Department note that Western Europe and Japan have begun moving simultaneously out of recessions while output in many developing countries expands briskly. In growing economies, the demand for capital to invest in new factories or homes tends to outstrip growth in the money available for lending. This pushes up interest rates as people compete to borrow money. 
 While there have been other periods in recent history when many economies have grown simultaneously, notably in the late 1980's, these officials in Washington fear that holding down long-term interest rates now may be especially difficult. They point to declining savings rates around the world; sharp growth in developing countries that are beginning to borrow large sums, and more government borrowing in many countries, where deficits are growing.
Taken together, these trends are pushing up what economists refer to as real interest rates -- the interest rate that lenders actually expect to receive after subtracting expected inflation, which erodes the value of debt repayments.
To be sure, the position of the Federal Reserve is politically convenient, allowing it to avoid responsibility for the rise in long-term rates so far this year. The Fed's reasoning also provides a possible justification for raising short-term rates, which would tend to support the value of the dollar in international currency markets and help the United States compete for scarce capital.
The American officials also make clear that their views are based on economic theory, not always a reliable predictor of behavior. And any number of unexpected events, like a sudden craze across the industrial world for eliminating government budget deficits, could alter the outcome American economists foresee.
Private economists and analysts generally agree with the prediction of higher rates but differ about the reasons. Most concur that strong growth globally will tend to make investment capital scarcer. But some doubt that developing countries, particularly China, will absorb as much investment as the Administration in particular expects.
Barton M. Biggs of Morgan Stanley & Company, one of the more influential voices on Wall Street, wrote last month in a newsletter that as pension and mutual funds become more common in developing countries, "huge amounts of money will move into formal savings through financial assets in the next 20 years, facilitating investments to make the world economy grow faster."
Allen Sinai, the chief economist at Lehman Brothers, said interest rates might also be rising because of the Fed's own difficulties in convincing financial markets, which determine long-term rates, that inflation is under control.
But Mr. Sinai agreed with the concerns of the Fed and the Treasury about the effect on interest rates of a global economic recovery. "There is a worldwide synchronous business expansion of unknown scope that is emerging, and the heart of that expansion will come in 1995 and 1996," he said.
Because financial markets in various countries are incompletely linked, a trend toward higher interest rates in China or other countries would tend to push up American interest rates but not assure this. Higher interest rates make borrowing more expensive for American consumers, businesses and the Federal Government, which pays interest on the national debt.
Lawrence H. Summers, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, said that real long-term interest rates were likely to be 1.5 percentage points higher around the world in the 1990's than they have been for the last four decades.
Lawrence B. Lindsey, a governor of the Federal Reserve, said a clear pattern seemed to have emerged. "As long as you have depressed savings, high fiscal deficits around the world, new investment opportunities around the world, you will have high real interest rates," he said.
But Mr. Summers, Mr. Lindsey and other senior officials made clear that they were expressing views based on economic theory, and they did not try to make any specific interest rate forecasts.
Not one of the trends now visible is entirely new, but all are reaching levels that make them harder to ignore. According to the International Monetary Fund, for instance, companies and individuals in industrial countries have reduced their savings over the last five years, to 19.4 percent of economic output from 21.4 percent.
At the same time, governments in industrial countries have more than doubled their borrowing to about 4.5 percent of economic output. Companies and individuals who want to make productive new investments like the construction of factories and the purchase of equipment, must pay ever higher interest rates as they bid against each other to borrow from a shrinking pool of savings that governments are draining at an accelerating rate.
To be sure, the I.M.F. figures predict some expansion in savings this year and next year and a modest reduction in government borrowing, as economic growth puts more money in people's pockets and reduces the cost of certain social programs, like unemployment insurance.
But because demand for investment money tends to grow faster than savings in a growing economy, I.M.F. officials are not reassured.
"The world savings and investment situation has, by and large, deteriorated over the last decade to 15 years," said Michael L. Mussa, the International Monetary Fund's research director. "Investment worldwide is competing for a smaller pool of savings than used to be the case."
Another trend that is not new -- but that is beginning to concern American officials -- is the demand for loans and investment from China, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet republics. This demand has been growing rapidly for several years, and was easily accommodated until now only because many Western economies were growing slowly.
Concern about an international shortage of savings relative to investment, and a resulting rise in interest rates, is not limited to American officials. Top finance officials from many countries expressed the same concerns at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Madrid earlier this month, although Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen was the most outspoken on the subject.
"There is concern about the rise in real long-term interest rates," Mr. Bentsen said in Madrid on Oct. 1. "To some extent, it's caused by an increasing gap between what is being saved around the world and investment because of the growing demand for investment capital in many areas."
Mr. Bentsen called for finance officials from 10 large industrial democracies to study the issue in the coming months.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "An Investment Squeeze" shows the decline in available funds for private investment, and the rise in long-term interest rates. (Source: International Monetary Fund) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT MORGAN STANLEY (81%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); TRENDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CURRENCIES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



623 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Chemicals Units Lift Oil Concerns

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Exxon, Amoco and ARCO said yesterday that their earnings from operations rose in the third quarter because of a resurgence of their chemical businesses and higher prices for their crude oil.
All three companies, however, had a decline in refining operations because of lower gasoline prices as the industry, preparing to begin refining reformulated gasolines that must be shipped in December, flooded the market with old fuel to reduce inventories. 
 The Exxon Corporation, based in Irving, Tex., reported net income of $1.16 billion, or 92 cents a share, down from $1.36 billion, or $1.09 a share, in the third quarter the previous year. Exxon's earnings were up 10 percent for the current period when $306 million of special items in the previous year's third quarter are excluded. Revenues were $29.6 billion, up from $27.9 billion.
Exxon said it had filed motions to overturn the verdict in the Exxon Valdez oil spill trial, which resulted in an award of $5 billion in punitive damages in September. The company said it had not taken a charge in the quarter related to the verdict "since it is impossible to estimate what the ultimate impact will be."
The Amoco Corporation, based in Chicago, had net earnings of $445 million, or 89 cents a share, for the third quarter, down from $520 million, or $1.05 share, in the corresponding period the previous year.
The results included charges of $32 million for future costs to comply with environmental regulations, while the previous year's quarter included a gain of $70 million for the sale of properties in Canada and tax adjustments. When the special items are eliminated, third-quarter earnings this year rose 7 percent.
Revenues totaled $7.78 billion, up from $7.072 billion last year.
ARCO reported net earnings of $435 million, or $2.67 a share in the third quarter, up sharply from $68 million, or 42 cents a share, in the corresponding period a year earlier.
The company, based in Los Angeles, was aided by about $200 million from the sale of part of its gas business. The period a year earlier included charges of $115 million attributed to increases in taxes and charges for litigation. Without the special items, earnings were up 29.5 percent for the third quarter.
Sales for the third quarter fell to $4.4 billion, down from $4.7 billion.
John Hervey, an oil analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said that while most oil companies showed lower earnings in refining, they had better results in exploration and production, where they were helped by an increase in crude oil prices.
He said that Exxon, Amoco and ARCO, which have large chemical businesses, were greatly helped by a strong recovery in the chemical industry. "It's surprising how quickly it has recovered," he said of the industry, which he said has been helped by a strengthening economy.
Ashland Oil Inc., of Ashland, Ky., also reported earnings yesterday. Ashland, which buys most of its oil and is heavily dependent on refining and selling gasoline, said that lower gasoline prices caused its fiscal fourth quarter net income to fall 8.9 percent to $61 million from the period a year earlier. Excluding special items, income was up 14 percent.
On the New York Stock Exchange, Exxon shares fell 37.5 cents to $59.50; Amoco rose 12.5 cents to $60; ARCO gained 12.5 cents to $101.875, and Ashland dropped $1 to $37.50.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (86%); BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); ASH (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); CANADA (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP; AMOCO CORP; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO) EXXON MOBIL CORP (86%); BP PLC (85%); ASHLAND INC (84%); AMOCO CORP (68%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXXON CORP; AMOCO CORP; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); CANADA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CHEMICALS TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL SPILLS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (72%); LITIGATION (68%); DAMAGES (67%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



624 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off as Traders Focus On Fall in Stocks and Bonds

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar drifted broadly lower in thin trading yesterday as the bond market weakened and traders concluded that Washington was unlikely to intervene to support the currency.
With no fresh economic data or news to drive the market, currency dealers focused on slumping prices for American securities, a trend that has ground the dollar lower for most of this year. Dealers often follow the bond and stock markets as a gauge of foreign investors' demand for American assets and the dollars needed to buy them. 
 A weak auction of Treasury securities yesterday and concerns that the United States Government's report on Friday on third-quarter economic growth would show a stronger-than-expected expansion prompted inflation-wary bond traders to sell, driving stock prices down.
"The dollar is following bonds, it's that simple," said David Solin, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics.
Currency market participants said the dollar's failure to continue higher after Friday's rally from a series of new two-year lows last week against key European currencies might have inspired some selling yesterday.
"I expected more follow-through from Friday," said Kevin Lawrie, vice president at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "But we're not getting that either. We're at a pivotal point for the dollar."
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar slipped to 1.4940 German marks, down from 1.4998 on Friday. The dollar was also weaker against the yen, falling to 97.13 yen from 97.22 yen on Friday. In Tokyo early on Friday, the dollar touched a low of 96.55 in intraday trading.
The dollar also fell to 5.1160 French francs, from 5.1388 francs. The British pound rose to $1.6320, up from $1.6260.
Another factor behind yesterday's decline, analysts said, was a conviction that the Clinton Administration would not order a dollar-buying support operation unless the currency went into a chaotic tailspin.
"The question is whether the dollar's weakness has been pronounced enough to upset them," said William Dudley, currency analyst for Goldman, Sachs & Company "If it hurts the bond and stock markets, the Administration will be much more nervous."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%); JAPAN (52%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



625 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK UNIONS AND MAYOR AGREE ON 7,600 JOB CUTS

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the leaders of New York City's municipal labor unions reached agreement yesterday on a plan to cut 7,600 more jobs from the city's payroll by offering a second round of severance packages as an alternative to layoffs.
The Mayor and the unions, who announced the deals at City Hall last night, also agreed on ways to save $190 million in the cost of health care for city workers -- a concession that Mr. Giuliani had sought earlier in the year but that the unions resisted until now. While that is a one-time saving to be accomplished by tapping health reserves, both sides agreed to various changes in benefits expected to save a further $100 million a year starting next year. 
 The agreements, after a day of final negotiations over technical details, came as Mr. Giuliani prepared to introduce a plan today to close a $1.1 billion gap in this year's $31.6 billion municipal budget, which took effect four months ago. Mr. Giuliani said the union agreements, most notably the saving in health costs, had been the final piece.
While the Mayor declined to give details, officials said the plan would include $850 million in spending cuts at agencies ranging from the police to the Department of Social Services, with nearly half coming from reductions in the size of the work force.
With the new severance program and a plan to eliminate additional jobs through attrition, officials said, the Mayor was proposing to bring the city payroll to about 196,000, from 216,000 when he took office. That would be the lowest number of city employees since 1985, when the work force totaled 194,373 under Mayor Edward I. Koch.
Mr. Giuliani, appearing beside the presidents of several unions, praised the labor leaders. "This puts in place the things we need to do, so that we can sensibly and humanely carry out the plan that we're going to announce tomorrow," he said. "It would not be possible to do this without the recognition on the part of the municipal labor unions that the city is facing a difficult time."
The labor leaders said they had shielded workers from layoffs and protected their benefits. "Our main goal is to protect jobs and do it in the least painful way," said Carl Haynes, president of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents 21,000 city workers.
The severance program, modeled on one that persuaded 6,139 workers to resign last spring, would be offered over three weeks beginning on Wednesday or Thursday to about 70,000 workers, excluding teachers but including police officers, firefighters and other uniformed employees.
The severance offers range from $3,150 for workers with less than a year on the job to $13,500 for those with more than 25 years of service. They include six months of health coverage and cash payments for vacation days and sick leave.
The new offers are roughly 10 percent lower than the first packages, which offered from $3,500 or two weeks' pay for newly hired workers to $15,000 for workers with 30 or more years on the job, as well as nine months of health benefits.
The agreements marked the second time that Mr. Giuliani has sought the cooperation of the unions to reduce the payroll, rather than resorting to layoffs as he moves to balance the city's budget without raising taxes.
The Mayor had planned to make a televised address on his budget plans, including the agreement with the unions, yesterday. But as the talks dragged into the afternoon, his office canceled the address. , Later, when Mr. Giuliani announced his endorsement of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, he said he would deliver the budget message today, but it was not clear if he would make a direct televised appeal.
The new severance packages seek the same number of worker reductions, 7,600, as the first round last spring. Because the first packages, offered to 80,000 workers, attracted only 6,139 takers, the Mayor looked again to a severance program in August to eliminate the remaining 1,500 jobs, even before he decided that still more workers had to be cut as the projected budget shortage grew.
The new agreement allows the city to continue to transfer workers between agencies and job titles -- a concession won in the first agreement.
Like the first, the new agreement requires the approval of the state Municipal Assistance Corporation, which has allowed the city to use a $200 million surplus to pay for the severance packages. The first round used $120 million, leaving $80 million.
The corporation has also agreed to provide an additional $30 million that it had planned to give the city in the future, while Mr. Giuliani said that another $10 million was available from the state for the severance packages.
Beyond the severance program, Mr. Giuliani's office portrayed the savings in health care costs as equally important in reducing the city's soaring costs, particularly the changes in the way benefits are managed, that could bring annual savings of $100 million.
Those savings include using managed care for workers' compensation claims and double-checking eligibility of workers and retirees. Some of the measures require the approval of the State Legislature, meaning the savings could not begin until at least the next fiscal year.
The city would pay workers $1,000 a year if they choose to leave the city's health coverage and join the plans of, say, their spouses, saving an estimated $4 million a year.
The Mayor's Commissioner of Labor, Randy L. Levine, said the recurring savings were the most significant, since the city's fiscal monitors have repeatedly criticized such onetime savings as tapping the benefit reserves.
Stanley Hill, the executive director of the city's largest union, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, praised the agreements on savings in health costs as a way to avoid deeper cuts in the work force, particular through layoffs, without making workers pay more for benefits.
"We did not lose benefits for our workers," Mr. Hill said.
The unions also won from the Mayor a longstanding demand that would allow workers to contribute extra money to retirement funds, to qualify for larger pensions.
While the Mayor and labor leaders hailed their cooperative spirit, there were signs of division within the unions. Arthur Cheliotes, president of Local 1180 of the Communications Workers of America, did not appear at City Hall and issued a statement denouncing the agreements.
"New York City's economic problems flow from the Mayor's policies," he said, "and he must stop coming to the working people of this city for relief."
Officials said the Mayor's plan to cut the budget would hit virtually every agency except the Department of Parks and Recreation, which is already straining.
The city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, which has already proposed cutting 3,000 jobs to cope with the first round of cuts, faces a new reduction of $100 million, as does the Human Resources Administration, which administers programs for the city's more than 1 million poor people.
The Board of Education will receive a cut of nearly $200 million, officials said, and the Police Department, until now shielded from cuts as Mr. Giuliani made law enforcement his top priority, will be cut $67 million, the vast majority of it from cuts in civilian workers.
In anticipation of the Mayor's plan, New Yorkers across a wide spectrum -- from members of the City Council to John Cardinal O'Connor to Eugene J. Keilen, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation -- have raised questions about the ability of the city to sustain large, repeated budget cuts.
For his part, Mr. Giuliani yesterday portrayed the cuts as "an opportunity" for the city to continue on the road to fiscal stability.
"We've been able to retain more businesses in the last 10 months than all of the last four years combined," the Mayor said in remarks he is expected to repeat when he unveils his menu of cuts. "And some of that, I believe, has to do with the reductions that we're creating for the budget of the city. So this will be very, very effective to create more growth in the city, and that's what I have to explain to the people."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about the Giuliani Administration's agreement with city unions on job cuts misstated the meeting place and omitted the identity of one participant. The site was outside the office of Local 375 of the Technical Guild, not at City Hall; the man second from the right was Lewis G. Albano, president of the local.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Giuliani administration and labor unions agreed yesterday on a plan to cut more city jobs. At City Hall during talks were Stanley Hill, a union leader, left; William Caldwell, housing police president, second from left, and Randy L. Levine, the Mayor's labor commissioner, right. (Ozier Muhammed/The New York Times) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HEALTH INSURANCE; LABOR UNIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FRINGE BENEFITS LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



626 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2686 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Giuliani Talks of Agonizing Over Best Man for the City

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's endorsement of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo yesterday, with excerpts from the question-and-answer session that followed, as recorded by The New York Times.
The election this year presents a fundamental dilemma causing many of us probably to do the same thing, agonizing over a decision we have to make, the choice we have to make for Governor. The choice will have a lot to do with the future of New York City and New York State. I think we all know that the question is compounded by the risk that we take if we make the wrong choice. My problem is further complicated because as the Mayor of New York City, I have to think about the entire city and not just my own personal position. 
 On the one hand, I'm a voter just like all the rest of you. On the other hand, my responsibility is to be as honest and as truthful about what I believe is in the best interest of the City of New York.
More and more I'm convinced that voters want the political gridlock and the partisan politics to come to an end. The voters want politicians to be like them -- straight, honest. Sometimes we vote for Republicans, sometimes we vote for Democrats, sometimes we don't vote. The voters want change, not politics as usual. I campaigned on a platform of change. I believed in it and I believe that's why I was elected. It was an affirmation that the voters want elected officials to look at what is best for them, not at what is best for political parties.
I have one of three choices. Do I vote for an incumbent governor who has served for 12 years, a governor with whom I don't always agree? Or with my vote do I ask him to step aside in favor of somebody else, somebody who will bring a different point of view, somebody who is a member of my own political party? Or do I conclude that neither one of the candidates is really that different, just ignore the whole thing, either not vote or vote for a third-party candidate like Thomas Golisano? I've made my decision and I want to share it with you and give you my reasons.
To begin with, I'm proud to be a Republican. I've already endorsed the Republican candidates for attorney general, comptroller and the United States Senate. But the next governor of New York must do more than just advance a few ideas and assist a political party. He must be a leader capable of articulating his own view of where the state is headed.
The city and this region, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, face a very troubling four years. America's economy is recovering. New York's is also but it's a slow and a very delicate process. The governor must understand and appreciate the crucial importance of the city and this region to the state.
For many people living outside of this region and living beyond it, New York City is often considered to be a drain on the economy of the state and the nation. I have and will continue to do everything that I can to introduce accountability and to make the tough choices that have to be made to reduce whatever inefficiencies that we have, and we certainly have many. But the money that we are spending here in New York City is our money. It's not Albany's and it's not Washington's.
For all of the problems of this city, its position as the nation's business capital means that we produce more money for Albany than we receive from Albany and we produce a lot more money for Washington than we receive from them, about $8 billion more.
So from my point of view as the Mayor of New York City, the question that I have to ask is, 'Who has the best chance in the next four years of successfully fighting for our interests? Who understands them and who will make the best case for it?' Our future, our destiny is not a matter of chance. It's a matter of choice. My choice is Mario Cuomo.
A moment ago I mentioned the risk we take if we fail to choose wisely. I am well aware of the risk that I take as a Republican Mayor endorsing a Democratic Governor, but I've concluded that the risk is worth taking for the sake of the City of New York and the State of New York.
Mario Cuomo will simply be a better governor than George Pataki. Mario Cuomo understands our quest for equity from Albany and Washington to recover some of the deficit in the balance of payments to the City of New York. He's already reduced some of the deficit. He's committed to continuing to do it. And he understands and has the same commitment to the entire region.
Senator Pataki has almost uniformly voted against the interests of the city and often the metropolitan region. As a candidate for governor, as I have said often, he has the right to broaden that viewpoint, to change that viewpoint and to show that he understands better the position of the city in the way it way it operates in the entire state. He has not done that. He's vacillated. He's been ambiguous and he's been inconsistent in his responses as to what he would do about these important issues.
It's difficult to ascertain for me where he stands on Medicaid takeover, which costs the city $2.3 billion. I don't understand it. I don't understand his position on the watershed. There have been several different positions. This is a matter of even more billions and billions of dollars to the City of New York. And there's a similar ambiguity on a wide range of issues that are important and critical to the city and the region. As the Mayor of this state's largest city, I can't speculate, I need to know.
This is not to say that I have no disagreements with the Governor. There are basic areas of philosophy in which I disagree with the Governor and I will continue to. But this race has been a challenge for him. And if he wins, I believe he will govern more effectively, more wisely, certainly more willing to step beyond partisan stereotypes and help break some of the gridlock that infects our politics. He will have one more chance to use the years of his experience and his enormous talent to set New York on a course that will help insure our future.
Mario Cuomo, I'm certain, has learned a great deal from this election. And that new insight will give him the strength and the determination to establish his place in history. I think he's entitled to that chance. It is for these reasons that I'm endorsing Mario Cuomo.
But I must emphasize three things I know about Mario Cuomo which underline my endorsement and make it certain. First, Mario Cuomo loves the city of New York and he loves this region of the state. He understands its importance. Whenever I've made appeals to him for equity for us, he has supported it. He will continue to.
Second, Mario Cuomo is his own man. I prefer dealing with someone who is his own man, even if we disagree on some important issues. Third, Mario Cuomo has a much better appreciation of where the economy of the city and the state are going. And he has the maturity and balance to guide it correctly. He is not making promises which he may not be able to fulfill.
For example, the Pataki tax cut proposal. I support tax cuts. Along with Governor Cuomo I've been able to reduce the hotel occupancy tax. I've reduced the commercial rent tax and I have a financial plan that proposes to reduce taxes in future years depending on the performance of the economy, but only depending on the performance of the economy.
I haven't pledged it and I haven't promised it. And when I ran for Mayor of New York City, I resisted making any such pledges because I think they're irresponsible to make. No one knows what is going to happen to the economy next year or the year after.
I've waited for several weeks for George Pataki to tell us how he will effectuate his tax cut plan. The answer from the Pataki campaign is the economy will grow, so we can raise spending and we can lower taxes. Anyone entering office today with the idea of raising spending as a method of lowering taxes is headed for a major reversal of a campaign promise early in his administration. It's happened before. We really don't need it to happen again. This troubles me because I'm a Republican and I'd like to see my party produce candidates who can and will stand on their own.
I've often said that I would not be the Republican Mayor or the Democratic Mayor, but just a mayor of New York City. I also said that most often I would support Republicans, but occasionally like Fiorella La Guardia, a Republican, and Ed Koch, a Democrat, I would support members of the other party if I thought it was critically important for my city to do so. It is.
Although I am by no means the most partisan member, I do believe that there are principles of the Republican Party in need of much greater emphasis in New York and in America and I will continue to fight for them, emphasizing government as a last resort, not a first; placing responsibility on individuals; focusing on stricter enforcement of the law; using principles of property ownership and small business to give hope to people who are poor. Republicans in government can give reality to these principles. They are worth fighting for.
Q. Mr. Mayor, you made two references. One to Mario Cuomo being his own man and George Pataki being guided and scripted by others. Is that a reference to Senator D'Amato?
A. It's actually a reference to the way in which the two campaigns have been conducted. Having been through two campaigns, I have a really good sense for a scripted campaign and a more natural campaign and I don't think anyone really runs Mario Cuomo's campaign. Mario Cuomo gets advice, he has people who help him and you get his ideas whether you like them or not.
And the sense that I've gotten from George Pataki is that it is very much a campaign out of a political consultant's playbook. There are cliches, there are slogans, there's the right sound bite, there's the right position. You become specific only for as long as you have to and then you become general again. . .and that's what I mean by the difference in the two campaigns. And I think the American public, Republican or Democrat, is tired of campaigns like that and if they're not, they should be. And I prefer someone who has their own ideas, can tell you what those ideas are and you can disagree with them if you want to. It's also easier for me as Mayor to deal with somebody like that.
Q. Mr. Mayor, can you say how much you were influenced by George Pataki's close association with Senator D'Amato?
A. The reasons for my endorsement are exactly what I said they were. This was an analysis of their positions, most importantly it was an analysis of who do I think will be more helpful to the people of the City of New York over the next three, three and a half years? Who will do a better job for the people of the city and the people of this region and it is my firm conviction that Mario Cuomo is the right person to do that.
I weighed the possibility of voting for Mario Cuomo and being neutral in the election. And I thought that that wasn't right for a mayor to do that. I thought it was right for me to tell people for whom I was voting and why I was voting for them and maybe, and this may be surprising to some very partisan politicians, I think many people throughout the course of their lives, even if they're Republicans or Democrats, sometimes vote for a member of the opposition party. I think many politicians do.
I think I know some Republicans that are going to vote for Mario Cuomo this year, except they feel, because they're so tied into partisan politics, they can't tell you the truth about it. It's kind of circumlocutious, but I think that's one of the reasons why people are so turned off about politics today. Because we don't act like we're real people.
Q. Mr. Mayor, when did you come to your decision and what was going on at the time. . . ?
A. I said it yesterday, probably over the last two weeks. It's very hard to say when I exactly decided. I decided maybe about two weeks ago that I thought the Governor would be for the city. I thought probably I would vote for him. But I weighed the option of remaining neutral and not expressing an opinion on the governor's race.
Maybe a couple of times during that period I went back and forth about it a little bit and finally decided over the weekend that, No. 1, that I would support him but, No. 2, that I would publicly state it because I felt that that was the appropriate thing to do as the Mayor. I think the people of the city and the region are entitled to know who I'm voting for and why in such an important race.
Q. Mayor, do you -- do you convey what you were going to do today to the Republican leadership . . . your friend Guy Molinari?
A. I didn't -- I tried to treat everybody exactly the same. I talked to people on my staff. I talked to my wife about it. I did not convey to anyone precisely what I was going to do except the people that were very close to me.
Q. Mr. Mayor, you were elected at the same time Governor Whitman . . . (give me your thinking) on the role of the promises of tax cuts. . .
A. First of all, you can't compare two states and it does not make any sense to compare two states. States have very different tax structures, they have different economies. . . . When I ran for Mayor both times, I was asked very, very often to do the following:
Pledge that you will never raise taxes. I refused to do that.
Pledge that you will lower taxes. I refused to do that.
I did it because I'm aware of the burdens that exist in the city and the state, the fact that there is a law that requires a balanced budget and that I believe not only the most honest approach but the one that would give you the most flexibility to govern is one where you talk about the things that you want to cut, the things you want to readjust, the ways in which you're going to try to save money and then talk about your intention to lower taxes. But don't lock yourself into a very, very ambitious specific plans to do it because here's what believe happens if you do that:
If you do that, at some point over the next two to three years given the vagaries of the economy, it's likely you may not be able to do what you promised. And then you make people even more disillusioned about government than they already are.
 But this campaign has not materially advanced those principles. The candidate, a genuinely nice man, has studiously taken as few positions as possible. This is wrong. It's the wrong direction for the Republican Party. I believe our party should be about a substantive campaign with candidates running with their own specific ideas which make the better case for the electorate.
In my view -- a little bit more -- in my view Mario Cuomo has made the stronger case. George Pataki's only essential characteristic is that he offers an alternative. Strangely, however, after lengthy analysis and, I assure you, a lot of soul searching, I've come to the conclusion that it is George Pataki who best personifies the status quo of New York politics -- a candidate taking as few positions as possible, all of them as general as possible, taking no risk and being guided, scripted and directed by others. He has simply not made the case in any way at all that he's the agent of change.
It's Mario Cuomo who offers us the best opportunity for change, for a different reason, because of what he's been through and because of his vast intelligence, his unquestioned integrity and his honesty. I believe he can apply those talents to the solutions for our problems and even see his way to different solutions. In any event, the ideas expressed by Mario Cuomo will be his own. He's a leader. This time is our time to make hard choices. I've made my choice. It's been a difficult one.
The rest of it is up to the electorate, and I urge people not to sit back on Election Day. Don't succumb to the feeling that you can't make a difference. You can and you will by voting. And please don't succumb to the notion that politics cannot change. It can. It's vitally important that we meet all of our probabilities with dependable leadership.
Thank you.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A transcript of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's statement endorsing Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was incomplete yesterday. Following is the passage that was omitted at the end of the Mayor's statement.
Although I am by no means the most partisan member, I do believe that there are principles of the Republican Party in need of much greater emphasis in New York and in America, and I will continue to fight for them: emphasizing government as a last resort, not a first; placing responsibility on individuals; focusing on stricter enforcement of the law; using principles of property ownership and small business to give hope to people who are poor. Republicans in government can give reality to these principles. They are worth fighting for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



627 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Is a Team of Clydesdales Next?;
In Heady World of Microbreweries, Growth Is the Word

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Oct. 22

 BODY:
The New Haven Brewing Company's line of beers is about as local as it gets. Who is the guy on the label of Mr. Mike's Light Ale, grinning behind the bar with the big sloshing tankard of suds? It is Mike Gettings, the company president. The dignified face on the label of Blackwell Stout? Blackwell himself, the brew-house dog, who even contributed a paw print of approval.
But the big question is, can Mr. Mike and Blackwell travel? Can a company that has reveled in its connection to the community sell its products nationally, head to head against the big players, in places where Blackwell is just another dog on a beer bottle and where nobody knows his name? 
 That anyone would even ask is a sign that things are changing for microbreweries in the New York region, which has been slow to accept the distinctive small-batch beers that battle for local palates elsewhere.
Microbrewed beers, which vary from sweet and malty stouts to yeasty ales, are the cappuccinos and lattes of the beer-drinking crowd: stronger, more complex in character than mass-brewed products like Budweiser or Miller and about twice as expensive. Their share of the national beer market is small, less than 1 percent, and in New York -- for reasons no one is quite sure of -- it has been smaller still.
But the operative word now is expansion.
Over the next few months, thousands of barrels of local beers, including the first pub-brewed beer in New Jersey since Prohibition, are expected to begin pouring forth from taps and bottles as microbrewing picks up steam. Breweries from Brooklyn to Norwalk, Conn., are putting in more and bigger brewing vats, plotting new lagers, ales and stouts.
Nationally, the microbrewing industry -- which includes bottlers brewing less than 15,000 barrels a year and brew-pubs that brew behind the bar and sell on tap -- has been growing at a rate of about 40 percent a year. The New York region will clearly exceed that pace over the next six months, with at least five new brew-pubs in New Jersey, Connecticut and Long Island, and expansions by at least three microbottlers.
"New York is awakening," said Stephen Hindy, president of Brooklyn Brewery, which began selling its beer in 1988, brewed by another company in Utica, N.Y. Next month, Brooklyn Brewery plans to open its first wholly owned and operated brewery in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn.
Nowhere are the plans more ambitious than inside the former steamship terminal that houses the five-year-old New Haven Brewing Company here. Where some new local brewers are measuring their distribution by how many seats are filled at the bar, New Haven Brewing is planning national conquest.
Backed by a new investor, New Haven Brewing's whimsically named beers -- still difficult to find as near as New York and New Jersey -- will soon be shipped to Florida and California.
If the pieces fall into place as planned, production levels will soar, from 4,300 barrels of beer last year, or about 135,000 gallons, to perhaps 150,000 barrels within three years, vaulting the company to within the top handful of small beer makers in the nation. A second brewery will have to be built.
"We've gone legit," said Jim Gordon, a co-founder and vice president for marketing at New Haven Brewing.
Survivors of the local brewing scene caution, however, that expanding into new markets is risky.
The Vernon Valley Brewing Company in Vernon Valley, N.J., one of the region's earliest microbrewers, thought it had caught the wave in 1985. It failed in 1992 and now sits empty. The short-lived Connecticut Brewing Company in Hartford failed with its Nathan Hale Golden Lager in the early 1990's. The Manhattan Brewing Company, one of the oldest brew-pubs in New York City, is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, although it remains open.
For New Haven Brewing, a more than 20-fold expansion means essentially creating a new company, changing from the old shoestring mom-and-pop days to something more structured. Expansion will also mean, for the first time, contracting out to a another brewer to make some of the company's products, at least temporarily.
Big-name brewers have also entered the microbrewing game. Anheuser-Busch, for example, recently invested in a small Portland company, Red Hook Brewing, and plans to distribute the company's beers to markets on the East Coast for the first time.
To add to New Haven Brewing's worries, the co-founder who developed the company's recipes, Blair Potts, has quit to open a brewery-pub in New Haven, thus ending New Haven Brewery's status as the city's only local beer.
"It's bittersweet, because it was my baby," Mr. Potts said. "But I only enjoy the start-up phase of companies. I'm a big fan of small business."
The changes at New Haven Brewing, he said, were necessary for the company's survival, and he believes the distribution team brought in by the new investors has a good chance to succeed. But he thinks there is a price to pay for that success. "I don't see it staying small and personal," Mr. Potts said. "I don't see how it could."
Within the culture of the microbrewers, the question of size has always been a major issue, touching on everything from philosophy to economics. There are lessons from companies that have made it big, like Anchor Steam in San Francisco, or collapsed, like Boulder Beer in Boulder, Colo., after launching a national distribution plan in the 1980's.
Jay Misson has seen both sides. He was the brewmaster at Vernon Valley Brewery -- later the Clement Brewing Company -- in New Jersey in the late 1980's, trying to expand when "the market hadn't hit yet." Since early this year, he has been brewing and bottling at the small Mountain Valley Brew Pub in Suffern, N.Y. He measures his distribution by towns: From Albany to New Brunswick, N.J., and New York City west to Morristown, N.J., with no plans for anything more.
"It's more in keeping with the mom-and-pop nature of the microbrewing business," he said.
In Norwalk, the New England Brewery is finishing work on a $2 million waterfront brewery that will more than triple its capacity, to about 20,000 barrels a year. But the company's president, Marcia L. King, said that while she may add one or two states to her distribution area, she wants the company's beers to be distinctly regional in New England and the northeast.
"That's the important thing, quality and regionality," she said. "This is a risky business to begin with, and when you start to spread yourself out too much, it just would make me nervous."
The Ship Inn in Milford, N.J., plans to begin brewing ales next month as the first legal brew-pub in New Jersey since a Prohibition-era state law was changed last year. The law prohibited retail sales and brewing at the same location. A co-owner, Ann Hall, said there were no plans to bottle, no plans to expand.
"Our prime concern is to serve the customers we already have," she said.
At New Haven Brewing, on the other hand, company officials said that it became clear over the last few years that a larger scale was the only way to survive. The company was undercapitalized and deeply in debt.
"I wanted to buy an Aston Martin, and I knew I would never get there if I just stayed doing what I was doing," said Jim Gordon, a pony-tailed co-founder who shares an office with New Haven Brewing's new chairman, Carmine Melchionna.
Mr. Melchionna is a New Haven businessman who made his first fortune building, then selling, a company that helped supermarkets collect and recycle deposit bottles and cans. He invested in New Haven Brewing earlier this year, becoming the new majority shareholder. He plans a catering business and a beer museum. He even had the front of the building landscaped.
Mr. Melchionna said he wants to keep the brewery here operating as a showplace. The new brewery, he said, will be just for production.
"Ultimately, if we get the distribution that we think we'll get, we'll need to make a lot of beer," he said. "It's a volume business."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about microbreweries referred incorrectly to the location of one in which Anheuser-Busch has become an investor. The company, Red Hook Brewing, is in Seattle, not Portland.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rob Leonard, the master brewer, cleans around the brewing tanks inside the former steamship terminal that houses the New Haven Brewing Company in Connecticut, which is planning to start shipping its beer to Florida and California. (Susan Harris for The New York Times); Labels from some of the distinctive small-batch beers that are battling for metropolitan area palates. (pg. B1); Geoff DeBisschop, 24, a New Haven Brewing assistant brewer, empties a tank for cleaning. The company's plans call for a second brewery. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW HAVEN BREWING CO NEW HAVEN BREWING CO (91%); BROOKLYN BREWERY LTD (66%); NEW YORK (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW HAVEN BREWING CO NEW YORK (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BEER BREWERIES (92%); BEER & ALE (91%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); CITIES (74%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK BLACKWELL STOUT (66%); MIKE GETTINGS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994



628 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: MASSACHUSETTS;
Kennedy and Romney Meet, And the Rancor Flows Freely

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
In a vivid piece of political theater, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts attacked his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, tonight for his views on abortion, health care and Social Security.
"I am pro-choice," Mr. Kennedy said during an exchange on abortion. "My opponent is multiple choice." 
 Mr. Romney, calm under fire, gave as good as he got during most of a 60-minute debate, but he failed to dent the composure of Mr. Kennedy, who came into the confrontation buoyed by a new poll showing him with a substantial lead. The challenger scored with jabs at the Senator's use of religion in the campaign and with depictions of Mr. Kennedy as the spokesman for an outdated brand of liberalism.
"I am tough on crime," Mr. Romney said. "He is not."
But Mr. Kennedy managed to make his opponent look inexperienced in the intricacies of Federal finance and the way legislation is enacted. He forced Mr. Romney to admit he did not know how much his ideas on health care would cost. And perhaps most important for the Senator, he demonstrated that he was not a has-been, although Mr. Romney took every opportunity to argue that it was time for a change after the incumbent's more than three decades on Capitol Hill.
Several of the Republican and Democratic politicians who critiqued the debate for local news outlets called it a draw in which no knockdowns, let alone knockouts, were scored by either candidate. If television viewers agree, that would tend to favor Senator Kennedy because he has no ground to make up.
In one protracted wrangle, involving accusations by Mr. Romney about the Senator's personal finances, Mr. Kennedy said stonily: "Mr. Romney, the Kennedys are not in public service to make money. We have paid too high a price."
The debate, telecast statewide, was staged in Faneuil Hall, a red-brick structure dating from pre-Revolutionary times, whose cupola is crowned by a gilded metal grasshopper. It was the highlight so far of the midterm election campaign -- far more robust, in keeping with Boston's liking for politics as spectator sport, than the tepid exchanges that have taken place in many states.
Much of the first half centered on jobs, a central issue in Massachusetts, and things quickly degenerated into a shouting match that the moderator, Ken Bode, had some trouble controlling. Mr. Romney said he knew how to create jobs because of his "skill and experience in the private sector," while Mr. Kennedy argued that his seniority in the Senate better qualified him to provide the training and education needed to guarantee well-paying employment in the state.
Then the Senator accused Mr. Romney of denying medical care to part-time workers he employs. Mr. Romney called that hypocrisy and said the Kennedy family did the same thing at its Merchandise Mart in Chicago, and the shouting began.
Afterward, the Kennedy forces distributed a news release, prepared in anticipation of Mr. Romney's accusations, saying that the mart's 400 full-time employees were given medical coverage and that its seven part-time workers were all covered to some degree. The rebuttal, of course, had none of the drama of Mr. Romney's heated words in the debate, which appeared to be extemporaneous.
Mr. Kennedy, who is 62 years old, allowed Mr. Romney to seize the initiative during the summer and found himself in a dead heat by Labor Day. Mr. Romney, trim and darkly handsome at 47, was transformed from a little-known venture capitalist (albeit one with a famous name) into a David who might slay Goliath.
The last of three political brothers, Senator Kennedy is one of the Democrats whom the Republicans would most like to defeat on Nov. 8, along with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington.
Mr. Romney accused Mr. Kennedy of misrepresenting and distorting his record, demanding, "When will this end?" In turn, Mr. Kennedy said he would provide documentation of his assertions and called upon Mr. Romney to talk instead about his views on the economy and "the pain of the people in Massachusetts."
"Give me a break, Mr. Romney, give me a break," the Senator said angrily after his rival accused him of being soft on crime for opposing some mandatory sentence guidelines and noted his longtime opposition to the death penalty.
Despite the spirited exchanges and fleeting looks of anger, the two men shook hands afterward and exchanged a few pleasantries.
Both Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Romney prepared carefully. In the customary dry runs, Charles Baker, the Human Services Secretary in the Cabinet of Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, played Mr. Kennedy for the benefit of Mr. Romney. For Mr. Kennedy's rehearsal, David Smith, a former Kennedy aide, took the part of Mr. Romney.
Several hours before the debate began, supporters gathered on the plaza between Faneuil Hall and Quincy Market, a popular tourist attraction in downtown Boston. The Kennedy backers carried blue placards, the Romney partisans red-and-blue ones.
A poll carried out over the weekend by The Boston Herald showed Senator Kennedy widening his lead, largely because of defections from Mr. Romney by independents. They hold the key to any Republican's chances in predominantly Democratic Massachusetts. In The Herald survey, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points and was based on interviews with 447 likely voters, Mr. Kennedy led 50 percent to 32 percent, with 18 percent undecided.
Mr. Romney needed a strong showing tonight and another in a second debate scheduled for Thursday night in Holyoke to stage a comeback. So he probably had the most at stake.
For Mr. Romney, a son of George W. Romney, the former Governor of Michigan whose ill-advised comment about having been brainwashed in Vietnam prematurely ended his bid for the Presidency in 1968, the debates also offered a chance to demonstrate that he could deal effectively with issues of substance.
A political neophyte, Mr. Romney had scored earlier in the campaign mainly by attacking Senator Kennedy and arguing that it was time for a change. Like many other challengers in this year of anti-incumbent fervor, Mr. Romney had spent little time defining a program of his own.
One of his most biting commercials, which ran last week, accused Mr. Kennedy of making big profits on a real estate deal in Washington "at taxpayers' expense." The Senator, who denied the accusations, had himself run a slashing series of advertisements accusing Mr. Romney of making big profits on a deal that cost hundreds of workers' jobs in Indiana. Mr. Romney had issued a denial in that case.
For Mr. Kennedy, first elected in 1962, the debate offered a chance to show that three decades in the Senate had not dulled his zest for political battle or public service, and to rebut his opponent's contention that years of hard living had enfeebled him.
In political circles in Washington, Mr. Kennedy is considered a legislative craftsman of great skill. He has long been viewed as the Senate's leading advocate of liberal causes, and he is admired for his hard work, even by adversaries like Senator Alan K. Simpson, a conservative Republican from Wyoming.
But in Massachusetts, his standing has been eroded by such episodes as the drowning of Mary Jo Kopechne in the Senator's car on Chappaquiddick Island in July 1969 and the trial of his nephew William Kennedy Smith on rape charges after he and Senator Kennedy had gone bar-hopping in Palm Beach, Fla., on Good Friday, 1991.
For many years his considerable influence in the halls of Congress -- his ability to deliver jobs for his constituents -- has to some degree obscured his personal troubles, including his divorce from his first wife, Joan.
But in late middle age he has proved vulnerable, and Mr. Romney has proved a vigorous challenger, even in South Boston, where rancor over the court-ordered school busing that began in 1974 remains a force, and where Mr. Romney has found a ready audience for his argument that "the 1960's liberal agenda has not worked."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yesterday's debate between Mitt Romney, left, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy was lively but inconclusive. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); ROMNEY, MITT TED KENNEDY (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



629 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN;
Endorsement? Pataki Seeks Other Topics

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
Campaigning in the heart of Giuliani country, State Senator George E. Pataki worked hard yesterday to change the subject from Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's newest strength -- his endorsement by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- to one of his oldest vulnerabilities -- his passionate opposition to the death penalty.
At stops in Staten Island, Borough Park, Bensonhurst and Nassau County, Mr. Pataki played down the dramatic endorsement of the Democratic Governor by the Republican Mayor, never diverting from a simple, scripted response that he, like Mayor Giuliani, would bring change to government. And whenever possible, he said that what he really wanted to talk about was the death penalty, specifically Mr. Cuomo's refusal to allow Oklahoma to execute Thomas Grasso, who had killed people in both states and has said he wants to die. Mr. Cuomo has insisted that state law requires that Mr. Grasso serve his 20-year-to-life sentence in New York before being extradited. 
 Ever since Mr. Grasso became an issue for Mr. Cuomo last year, Democratic strategists have assumed that the Republicans would play the Grasso card during this year's campaign. But the Pataki campaign has largely held back until today, when Mr. Pataki threw his ace with gusto.
"This is the borough where Thomas Grasso committed his second murder, a crime for which he is not only not paying a penalty but is in fact avoiding the death penalty in Oklahoma because of the acts of Mario Cuomo," Mr. Pataki said in Staten Island at a news conference that he ostensibly called to promote his pledge to reduce tolls on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
Mr. Cuomo, meanwhile, devoted his day to making sure that Mr. Giuliani's endorsement would mean as much as possible.
The Mayor provided the photo opportunity that his announcement on Monday had not, appearing with Mr. Cuomo on the City Hall steps with representatives of law-enforcement unions that were endorsing the Governor. Rather than wilting in the face of criticism and potential ostracism from Republican officials, Mr. Giuliani seemed only to strengthen his support.
His selection of Mr. Cuomo over Mr. Pataki, he said, was "not a close choice."
"If it were close," he said, "I would cut it in favor of the Republican Party." The only difficulty in his decision, he said, was understanding "the hurt that it causes to some very partisan Republicans, some of whom helped me a lot."
At each of Mr. Cuomo's public appearances, the Governor offered a host of reasons that the Mayor's endorsement should matter.
"If you are concerned about who is in the best position to help people in this state live better, then the Mayor of the largest city -- where there are eight million people, who happens to be of a different party, who I opposed twice -- the idea that he says that I'm better for this state than his own party member has to have a persuasive influence," Mr. Cuomo said after delivering a speech in Manhattan about violence in the media.
Sounding at times like a door-to-door salesman hawking Mr. Giuliani's endorsement instead of encyclopedias, the Governor said that undecided Democrats in particular should ask themselves: "What am I hesitating about? This guy's a Republican Mayor. He says Cuomo's the best for us."
Mr. Cuomo rejected the argument, repeated frequently yesterday by Republican legislators around the state, that the endorsement must have hinged on a deal between Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Giuliani that would drive money to the city at the expense of other parts of the state. "What are they suggesting," that if Mr. Giuliani had endorsed the Republican candidate, "that then they would have been able to abandon the city?" he asked.
Similarly, he turned away the Rev. Al Sharpton's warning that black voters who dislike Mr. Giuliani may hold the endorsement against Mr. Cuomo. Would black voters have preferred that Mr. Giuliani endorse Mr. Pataki "so Mario can lose, so they can devastate the city budget with a $7 billion tax cut in Albany?" he asked. "It doesn't make sense."
But Mr. Cuomo also refused to say that he would return Mr. Giuliani's favor by endorsing the Republican Mayor if he seeks re-election in 1997. "Are you serious?" he asked in response to the question. "If I'm Governor after Nov. 8, we'll talk."
It remained uncertain, of course, exactly how Mr. Giuliani's endorsement ultimately would affect the race, with Democrats saying it should be worth at least a few percentage points and Republicans saying that any gains might be offset by its potential to galvanize Pataki supporters upstate.
But one thing the endorsement clearly provided, according to several Democratic leaders, was a dose of positive attention for a campaign that sorely needed it.
The Governor received other good news yesterday in the form of new statistics released by his administration that showed a drop in the state's unemployment rate from 6.7 percent in August to 6 percent in September, the lowest rate this year. Another state report released yesterday showed that major crime declined by 9.2 percent in New York State in the first six months of 1994, compared with the same period in 1993.
Mr. Pataki, however, sought to use the crime issue to his advantage. He chose to confront the Giuliani endorsement by appearing in neighborhoods where Mr. Giuliani won heavy support in last year's mayoral election, and by speaking about the issue that helped him win that support.
"You have the right," Mr. Pataki said at the Amico Senior Citizen Center in Borough Park, "for all you have contributed to this city and this state, to live in peace and safety on the streets, in the parks, in the centers and in your homes."
Mr. Pataki also tried to rebut one of the most stinging criticisms in Mr. Giuliani's endorsement: the Mayor's suggestion that Mr. Pataki is not his own man and is controlled by United States Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
"I am very much an independent person and I will be an independent governor," he said in Staten Island.
But Mr. Cuomo sought to exploit the attention drawn by Mr. Giuliani's endorsement to the relationship between Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato.
"I can tell him how to be his own man," he said, referring to Mr. D'Amato's aid to the Pataki campaign. "Give back all the money. Give back all the staff. Give back the endorsement. Give back the advice. You know, he'd have to do a lot to be his own man."

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator George E. Pataki and Guy V. Molinari, right, Staten Island Borough President, leaving an Italian-American grocery with a sample of provolone while campaigning in Brooklyn yesterday. (Associated Press) (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; OKLAHOMA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTION ISSUES; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); MURDER (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EXTRADITION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SENTENCING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (56%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); GRASSO, THOMAS RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



630 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues Its Slide, Touching New Low vs. Yen

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar came under renewed attack yesterday, setting a record low against the Japanese yen and a fresh two-year low against the German mark. But the dollar recovered somewhat in late New York trading.
"We broke to new lows but we didn't have any follow-through selling," said David Durst, vice president at Bear Stearns & Company. He said that traders who had sold dollars at higher levels rushed to buy them back as the currency touched new low points. 
 The dollar declined to 96.42 yen early in New York trading, falling through the previous postwar low of 96.55 yen in intraday trading last Friday. In late New York trading, the dollar settled at 96.82 yen, down from 97.13 yen on Monday.
It also fell to new two-year lows against the mark, falling in Europe as low as 1.4853 marks after a group of economic research institutes raised their growth forecasts for the German economy. In New York trading, the dollar declined to 1.4860 marks, its lowest level since Oct. 19, 1992, before finishing at 1.4970 marks, up from 1.4940 marks on Monday.
The British pound rose to a two-year high of $1.6405 in New York, before settling at $1.6357 from $1.6320 on Monday.
The dollar had come under pressure in overnight trading, despite repeated intervention by the Japanese central bank aimed at supporting it. Selling continued as New York traders entered the market this morning. As the dollar edged down, the Japanese efforts alone were not sufficient to combat the negative sentiment that has forced it lower.
Still, many traders were wary about the possibility that the Federal Reserve might also step in to try to support the dollar if it fell too far.
 "Although people are itching to make the lows, there are still lingering concerns about central bank intervention," said Amy Smith, analyst at consulting firm Idea.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen helped to reinforce some of the fears. Speaking on the cable television network CNBC, Mr. Bentsen reiterated the Government's desire for a stronger dollar.
Some traders, however, are skeptical. "The U.S. and others can talk the dollar up all they want, but the market needs more commitment," said Jack Griffin, vice president at Fuji Bank.
In other trading, the dollar rose yesterday to 1.2495 Swiss francs from 1.2425 francs on Monday, and to 5.1225 French francs from 5.1115 francs. It dropped against the Italian lire at 1,531 from 1,527, and rose against the Canadian dollar to 74.14 cents from 74.00 cents Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BRITISH POUND (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); CABLE TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); 

PERSON: LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



631 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Business Technology
 Communications giants are scrambling to reshape their industry, driven by a Federal deadline for bidders on new wireless licenses. An alliance announced by Sprint and three big cable television operators caps a frenzy of recent deal making. [Page A1.]
 Three regional telephone companies are said to be planning a video programming service for phone customers. The deal involves Michael Ovitz, the most powerful agent in Hollywood. [D1.]
 A new type of long-life lighting uses microwave energy. [D6.]
 
Companies
 Eli Lilly agreed to restrictions on operating the PCS Health Systems drug marketing unit. An accord with the F.T.C. would allow Lilly to complete its $4 billion purchase of PCS. [D1.]
 Chemical producers are enjoying a sudden surge in demand. Big jumps in chemical prices have bolstered earnings at some oil companies, which have seen declines in refining operations. [D1.]
 RJR Nabisco said earnings nearly tripled, showing strong operating gains in its food and tobacco businesses. [D2.]
 Eastman Kodak expects more cutbacks, after reporting a 31 percent decline in third-quarter earnings. [D2.]
 Opening arguments were heard in the Government's case against General Electric on charges it conspired with De Beers to fix prices of industrial diamonds. [D2.]
 Continental Airlines said its chief executive had resigned. The carrier also reported lower-than-expected earnings. [D5.]
 Cadbury Schweppes is talking with Dr Pepper about a possible takeover. Some analysts see strong reasons for a merger. [D5.]
 William R. Hoover plans to retire as chief executive of Computer Sciences after leading the company for 22 years. [D5.]
 Kubota of Japan will scale back its computer business and close its Silicon Valley subsidiary, Kubota Graphics. [D5.]
 
International
 Soweto has a new identity: an emerging market in South Africa. The township, once synonymous with the misery of apartheid and political upheaval, is seen as a market of great untapped potential. White businesses are investing in the black townships, in projects like the first shopping mall in Soweto. Some black entrepreneurs, however, resent being pushed aside. [D1.]
 Projections for German economic growth were raised substantially. Five research institutes projected growth of 2.5 percent this year and 3 percent next year. Still, stocks fell in Frankfurt. [D2.]
 Hungary is struggling with an economic slump. [A14.]
 Markets Stocks ended mixed. The Dow industrials fell 4.71 points. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities were little changed after a mildly disappointing auction of two-year notes. [D17.]
 The dollar fell to a new low against the Japanese yen and a new two-year low against the German mark before recovering. [D18.]
 Copper prices climbed as inventories continued to shrink. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
 Someone knew to sell Outboard Marine stock before the company announced that earnings for the quarter would be well below estimates. While some attributed the selloff to leaked information, there is no proof that this was the case. But it is the kind of market action that helps to cause bitterness among many investors, including both individuals and institutions, who worry that they are not treated as well as more favored holders when there is news to release. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
 Madison Avenue now runs through cyberspace. The New York office of BBDO Worldwide is on Compuserve, the first agency on such a big on-line service. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); UAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (70%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (57%); PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (57%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%); CADBURY LTD (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (70%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS REGULATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); CONSPIRACY (75%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); CARTELS (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CHEMICALS MFG (74%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); COPPER MARKETS (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); AIRLINES (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); GERMAN MARK (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL OVITZ (57%); WILLIAM R HOOVER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



632 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Petrochemical Profits Are Helping Oil Companies

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
An increase in demand for petrochemicals, used in making plastics, synthetic rubber and fibers, is causing a shortage of supplies and a jump in prices.
Although the demand for chemicals historically rises during an economic recovery, the industry was taken by surprise by the sudden surge in demand during the third quarter -- and producers are now scrambling to increase production. And for the country's big oil companies, most of which have huge chemical subsidiaries, profits from chemicals have been jumping sharply, helping to give the companies higher earnings from operations for the quarter. 
 The growing demand has forced up prices for some chemicals by about 50 percent and is expected to put pressure on the prices of thousands of consumer products from automobiles to plastic bags to washing machines.
"What we're seeing is a big recovery in the volume plastics business," said John Akitt, the executive vice president of the Exxon Chemical Company, the world's ninth-largest chemical concern and a division of the Exxon Corporation.
He said a series of disruptions at major plants, including a fire at Exxon's plant in Baton Rouge, La., in August, had also put a pinch on products including ethylene, which is used in plastics.
Disruptions have also had an effect on chemical production at the Amoco Corporation, which has cut customer deliveries of ethylene to about 60 percent of what they had ordered.
Jim Fligg, executive vice president in charge of chemical operations for Amoco, estimated that about 3 billion out of a total of 42 billion pounds of ethylene capacity were taken out of production in the last few months because of fires, floods and plant shutdowns for maintenance.
"This has caused an industry tightness," he added. "We're selling every pound we produce."
Most plants, he said, are increasing production, and Amoco's plant at Chocolate Bayou, Tex., which makes ethylene and was shut down for maintenance, is now back at 80 percent of capacity.
The disruptions came as demand increased, both in the United States and in Europe, for basic chemicals used in products like plastics and synthetic rubber. Demand in the United States alone is up 9 percent from last year for chemicals including ethylene, benzene, styrene, polyethylene and polystyrene.
William R. Young, a chemical industry analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said these trends had pushed up prices for ethylene from 16 cents a pound at the beginning of the year to about 25 cents now. Polyethylene, used widely in packaging, has risen from 24.5 cents a pound in January to about 37 cents, he said.
Mr. Young said the demand had been particularly strong for so-called commodity chemicals, which oil companies produce from the byproducts of natural gas and the refining of crude oil.
For the oil companies, the surge in demand and prices has been a boon.
The Chevron Corporation, for example, said yesterday that its third-quarter net income rose to $425 million, or 65 cents a share, up 1.2 percent from the corresponding period a year earlier. The company said the operating profit of its chemical operations rose to $72 million in the third quarter from $15 million in the period last year.
And the Phillips Petroleum Company said yesterday that its net income of $119 million, or 45 cents a share, was nearly triple that of last year's third quarter. Its chemical unit had operating profits of $66 million, nearly double those of the period last year.
Texaco Inc., which sold off its worldwide chemical business last year, said its third-quarter net income nearly doubled, to $281 million, or 98 cents a share.
On Monday, the Exxon Corporation reported that its chemical operations earned $198 million in the third quarter, up from $68 million in the period last year.
Amoco said its chemical earnings were $154 million, up from $60 million, and ARCO said its chemical profits rose to $77 million from $55 million.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Surge in Chemicals" shows operating income and capacity utilization for the overall chemical industry from '75-'95. (Source: Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (85%); CVX (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); CHEVRON CORP (82%); EXXON CHEMICAL CO (69%); AMOCO CORP (67%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PETROCHEMISTRY AND PETROCHEMICALS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHORTAGES PETROCHEMICALS (93%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (91%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); ETHYLENE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ALIPHATICS (90%); PLASTICS (90%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (90%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RUBBER & SILICONE (89%); SYNTHETIC RUBBER (89%); POLYMERS (89%); POLYOLEFINS (89%); POLYETHYLENE (89%); STYRENE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); BENZENE (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); AROMATICS (78%); COMMODITY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); POLYSTYRENE (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



633 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI PROPOSES $800 MILLION MORE IN SPENDING CUTS

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday proposed a second round of budget cuts that would squeeze almost every government service in New York City, from schools to hospitals to prisons, from recycling to bridge painting to food programs for the poor.
Saying the cuts would be difficult but necessary to keep the city on a course to economic recovery, Mr. Giuliani outlined a plan to close a $1.1 billion gap that has opened in the $31.6 billion budget the Mayor and the City Council balanced just four months ago; more than $800 million of the $1.1 billion would come from cutting spending already budgeted for the city's agencies this year. 
 The cuts come on top of the $1.1 billion in spending reductions the Mayor pushed through the City Council as the budget took effect last July. With the new cuts, Mr. Giuliani has now proposed cutting city spending by nearly $2 billion, or more than 6 percent, the deepest reductions since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's.
Once Mr. Giuliani's plan is introduced as legislation, the City Council has 30 days to approve or reject it as a whole, or negotiate changes with the Mayor and ask him to resubmit the plan.
The latest cuts fall most heavily on the Board of Education, whose current $7.7 billion budget the Mayor has proposed slashing by $190 million, with steps like trimming 504 assistant principals and raising the price of a school lunch by 28 cents, to $1. The Department of Social Services faces a cut of $102 million, or 1.4 percent, while the Mayor plans to snatch away $113 million from a surplus the Transit Authority had built as ridership on the subways increased.
Mr. Giuliani said his commissioners would manage the cuts to minimize the service impact, but several elected officials, union leaders and advocates criticized the Mayor's plan as too Draconian, saying it would hurt the city's poorest residents the most, and spare almost no one.
In contrast to the budget he unveiled last spring, the Mayor's new plan includes significantly more details on exactly where cuts would fall, proposing, for instance, to save $200,000 by seeking to eliminate a court ruling that city jail windows be cleaned four times a year.
The plan would also phase out money for soup kitchens, end a counseling program to keep addicted mothers with their children, and cut 1,900 openings in day-care centers. At the same time, the city's three police departments would lose 2,000 civilian workers, a decision that elected officials and fiscal monitors warned could mean more police officers filling desk jobs instead of patrolling the streets.
The Mayor's plan also proposed cutting 800 correction officers in the city's already strained jails, while slashing recreational and counseling services for inmates -- a situation that the head of the officers' union, Stanley Israel, said would push the jails "into the danger zone."
In all, the Mayor said he would eliminate 5,153 jobs in addition to the 15,000 he has already cut in the city's payroll of 216,000 workers when the he took office. That would leave the city with the fewest workers since 1985, when the total was 194,373 under Mayor Edward I. Koch.
Anticipating a public outcry in the coming weeks, Mr. Giuliani said that New York would continue to spend more money than any other city "on children, the elderly, people who are sick, people who are homeless, people who have AIDS," as it had for more than a century.
"It will continue to," Mr. Giuliani said, announcing the plan in the old Board of Estimate Chambers at City Hall, "but we have to ask for more accountability in the way we spend that money, and we have to make some reductions in it to allow New York City to continue to function as an enterprise that can continue to grow through jobs on the private side."
But the Mayor's plan provoked an immediate and strong response from the City Council, where Democrats outnumber Republicans 43 to 7 and where members vowed to challenge many of the most drastic proposals.
The Council's Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said the Mayor had not laid out a realistic strategy for balancing the budget now or in the future. Instead, he said, the Mayor's plan simply imposed across-the-board cuts as "a shortsighted expediency."
"Just as we cannot tax our way out of fiscal problems, we cannot simply cut our way out either," said Mr. Vallone, the Democrat from Astoria, Queens, whose voice at times bristled with anger.
Mr. Giuliani said he was willing to negotiate changes with the Council, but only if its members came out with alternatives to close the $1.1 billion shortfall. The Council has already begun drafting some of those, though its leaders declined yesterday to say what exactly they entailed.
The Mayor attributed the budget shortfall to factors largely out of the city's control. Those, he said, included a drop in tax revenues because of the summer slump on Wall Street, the inability to win anticipated aid from the Federal and state governments, and soaring costs from pensions, welfare rolls and liability claims against the city. The largest shortfall, however, came from overtime, which has soared, particularly in the jails, forcing the Mayor to find $150 million more in savings.
In addition to the cuts in agency spending, the Mayor's plan includes $190 million in savings from the city's municipal unions by tapping health benefits reserves and $10 million more in various changes in the way benefits are administered.
To reach his goal of cutting the municipal work force by a total of 20,000, the Mayor and the unions also reached an agreement on Monday to offer a second round of voluntary severance packages instead of layoffs to cut 7,600 more jobs. The payroll now stands at 207,000 workers. The rest of the reductions to the planned level of 195,872 would come through attrition.
The plan also calls for increasing revenues by $42 million in several ways, like collecting fees from sidewalk cafes more aggressively, and reducing the amount of time that money will buy on parking meters. City Councilman Noach Dear, the chair of the Council's transportation committee, said the latter amounted "to nickel-and-diming."
Even after the Mayor's steps to close the $1.1 billion budget gap, the total budget has grown to $31.8 billion since the fiscal year began on July 1, because the city has received $200 million more in Federal aid earmarked for various programs.
The bond raters on Wall Street praised the plan as a prudent step toward restoring stability in the city's finances. "It's a good plan," said Richard P. Larkin, managing director of Standard & Poors, one of the major raters. "After looking at at least five years of budgets with varying degrees of gimmickry and one-shots, this plan addresses the problem head-on."
Mr. Larkin said that the outlook on the city's rating -- all important to the price the city can hope to charge for its bonds -- would continue to improve if Mr. Giuliani continued with his plans to control spending.
Others saw it differently. City Councilwoman Ronnie M. Eldridge, who represents the West Side of Manhattan, said the cuts would hurt virtually everyone. The only major agencies spared deep cuts were the Department of Health and the Department of Parks and Recreation.
With agencies already strained under the first round of cuts, Ms. Eldridge said the city now had to consider changes in the tax structure to increase revenues and protect services -- something Mr. Giuliani has explicitly ruled out.
"This budget reminds me of the Grimm's fairy tale of Cinderella, where the step-sisters cut off their toes and feet to fit into the slipper," she said. "I think it's going to hurt everyone."
But Mr. Giuliani said he had to keep cutting spending or the city would no longer be able to afford the services it does provide. He added that the city's spending had grown faster than the rate of the economy for the last 16 years.
"If you sit where I sit," he said, "what you have to be concerned about is: if you allow that process to go on, then where is the money going to come from to care for people who need care and who need help, who are in sickness or who are elderly, 5 or 10 years from now?"
A few hours after he formally announced his plan, the first protest of what will probably be many more began, with members of Act Up, the AIDS rights organization, marching in front of City Hall shouting that people needed help right now.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows outline of Mayor Giuliani's two rounds of budget cuts. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CITY COUNCILS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGETS (93%); CITIES (92%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLICE FORCES (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); TRENDS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MYERS, STEVEN LEE RUDY GIULIANI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



634 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Hunger and Dissent Stalk a Struggling Ethiopia

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, Oct. 22

 BODY:
After two decades of war and famine, political oppression and mass killings, the recipe for restoring a shattered economy under a democratic government remains elusive here.
In the three years since rebel troops overthrew a Marxist regime and committed themselves to democratic rule, there have been measurable gains. The government of President Meles Zenawi has cooperated with the World Bank, devalued its currency and begun to open its markets. There is general stability and peace. 
 Inflation is down to single digits. There are 60 registered political parties. More than 120 newspapers are registered here in the capital, including many that yearn editorially for the days of the dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam, who ruled in a campaign of terror until his overthrow by rebels. And Government officials say they remain committed to raising living standards.
But Ethiopia today is still the second-poorest African country after Mozambique, stalked perpetually by famine and so divided by political dissent that some critics fear it will slip back into violence, even civil war.
"The writing is on the wall, no doubt," said Nebiyu Samuel, head of the Ethiopian National Democratic Party, an opposition coalition that is included in the present transitional government. "All the factors, all the recipes are there for this country to go to pieces. The temptation is there every day for me to quit. None of us should be quitters. But the road is getting narrower and narrower."
Several thousand people died this year when rains came late and the harvest failed in the south, but by most measures this represented a kind of success. The Government and international relief agencies prevented a higher toll by rushing food to the stricken area. Yet even with good rains and successful harvests, the country will continue to require aid amounting to hundreds of thousands of tons of food a year, Western relief officials say.
In this desperately poor land of 50 million, where more than half live below poverty level and an estimated 20 million are unemployed, economic hardships have always defined most Ethiopians' existence.
After South Africa, Ethiopia is the second-largest recipient of United States foreign aid in sub-Saharan Africa. By May, the United States had provided more than $135 million in economic assistance this year, of which about $110 million was emergency food aid. The World Bank disbursed $325 million this year, $200 million more than in the previous year.
Because of the economic restructuring, Addis Ababa has been flooded with more than a million people since 1991, most of them unemployed and with no future as farmers in the countryside. More than 20,000 street children roam the city, and their numbers are expected to soar to 40,000 by the end of 1995.
In the countryside, about 60 percent of the children under 5 are malnourished, one of the highest rates in Africa. In such a context, bringing prosperity and multiparty democracy in the space of a few years is an extraordinarily difficult task.
"You can't apply Western logic to what is happening in Ethiopia," said one diplomat. "The Western donors are expecting too much, too fast."
But there is dissatisfaction inside Ethiopia as well. Critics of the Government call the official tolerance of a political opposition a whitewash. They say the Government, controlled by the members of Tigrean ethnic minority in the ruling party, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Defense Front, has fulfilled only a few of its promises.
Diplomats and Ethiopians also say the Government has become increasingly autocratic and threatening as it tries to neutralize threats to its stability, moving its loyalists into top positions in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, the university, the state airline, banks and industry.
"We have a cultural tendency towards extremism," said a senior Ethiopian official. "You can't introduce democracy by undemocratic means."
Many opposition parties have refused to take part in the country's first elections, to be held early next year. The other parties that remain in the present transitional government say they have little access to radio and television, which are controlled by the Government, and are not allowed to campaign freely in the provinces.
Several parties have organized military affiliates that have fought Government troops, particularly in the east. Officials officially dismissed this opposition as unorganized "bandit activity," but relief workers and diplomats say that in some instances the fighting was fierce enough that the Government used tanks.
Diplomats and United Nations officials say the Government has harassed and sporadically cracked down on the opposition and the press, which sometimes publishes irresponsible reports, and more than a dozen journalists have been arrested in the last few months. Scores of political demonstrators were arrested here in September; the Government accused them of inciting a riot.
"Freedom should entail responsibility," said Netsannet Asfaw, the presidential spokeswoman. "If they incite violence, religious and ethnic, they are taken to court. In the West, you accept only peaceful struggle. The same should apply here. How did governments deal with the Black Panthers or the I.R.A.?"
The political dissent is also fueled by factors beyond the Government's control. The opposition is deeply divided and many of the parties have made outrageously unrealistic demands in an effort to feed unrest. And some of the Government's moves, like giving any nationality the right to secede, have heightened ethnic tensions.
Another major source of tension is land, which was nationalized during the previous regime. The current Government has said it will not permit peasants to own the land they farm because of fears that they might be tempted to sell to speculators.
But Ethiopia's biggest hurdle to survival and political success is food production. The Government says it is overhauling agriculture and hopes to be self-sufficient in food in a decade, but acknowledges that is optimistic.
Barely eight months ago, for instance, millions of Ethiopians were on the brink of starvation as rains and crops failed in the south. With one million metric tons of food aid, the Government managed to bring help to 6.7 million people. Now the rains have been plentiful and the fields are lush, but the country will still need 700,000 to one million metric tons of food a year. If the temperamental rains fail, the situation will be disastrous.
Even with sufficient rain, food production is low because of severe land degradation, low use of fertilizers and a lack of improved seeds. Ethiopia has the lowest per hectare production of grain in the world, officials say, and after years of war and drought, many farmers no longer even have oxen to till their fields.
"We're not making any progress at all," said a senior Western relief official. "The same amount is being imported as in 1984 for the famine where one million died. That's the kicker, that's the tragedy. You have a beautiful crop and you still need a million tons."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three years after rebel troops overthrew Marxist rulers, Ethiopia remains the second-poorest country in Africa. In Addis Ababa, the capital, homeless men washed their laundry in a puddle in the road. (Elizabeth Gilbert for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ethiopia shows the location of Addis Ababa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA; ETHIOPIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; FAMINE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS FAMINE (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TRENDS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); CHILDREN (60%); DEVALUATION (56%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA MELES ZENAWI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



635 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Germans See Growth; Markets Drop Anyway

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Reporting that the German economy was driving itself out of deep recession, a group of leading economic research institutes significantly increased projections today for economic growth this year and predicted that the output of Europe's largest economy would rise further in 1995.
But the forecast of strong growth did not stop the German stock and bond markets from falling. Touched off by fears of renewed inflation in the United States and continuing weakness in the dollar, stocks on the benchmark DAX index fell 2.51 percent and bonds had one of their worst days in weeks. 
 "Everyone is bearish on the dollar," said Jeff Hochman, a strategic analyst at Deutsche Bank. "And unfortunately, as goes the dollar these days, so go German stocks and bonds." This is in part because a weaker dollar creates a stronger mark, which makes the exports upon which German industries depend more expensive abroad.
The dollar hit another two-year low here during the day at 1.4853 marks, moving up at the end of trading here and in New York, ending the day there at 1.4970 marks. But German analysts saw little reason for the dollar not to drop again.
At a semiannual ceremony in which six research institutes issue a joint economic forecast for the Government, five of the six said the economy would grow 2.5 percent this year -- up from a projection six months ago of 1.5 percent growth in the economy.
They projected that overall growth in 1995 would be 3 percent, that western Germany would grow 2.5 percent, and that eastern Germany -- which is being rebuilt through infusions of aid from western Germans -- would grow 8.5 percent.
The sole dissent came from the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin, which predicted much slower growth.
The institutes also said that unemployment in both parts of the country would come down, but very slowly. German joblessness reached a high of four million workers in January and is expected to fall to 3.72 million by year's end, and only to 3.6 million by the end of 1995. That still represents a persistently high jobless rate for Germany of 9.3 percent.
"In the west and east, the fall of employment and the growth of unemployment has come to a standstill," the report said.
Though the economic analysis is made by nongovernmental institutes, it is done for the Government in Bonn. Officials of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's administration were quick to say that the findings reinforced their economic policies, and opposition politicians, quick to parry such contentions.
But the report emphasized that the German recovery could be brought to a quick halt by either tax increases or high wage increases from next year's labor negotiations.
The institutes also called on the Government to cut taxes and spur investment and consumer demand.
But the markets here today were not excessively influenced by the report. Their concern has been that the United States economy is growing so fast that the Federal Reserve will raise American interest rates again in an effort to dampen inflation.
For now, a stock analyst at a big German bank said, no one wants to buy dollars.
"There is a lot to be worried about right now," the analyst said. "The main concern is the trend of United States interest rates. As long as that is the main concern, there is nothing to cheer about in the equities market."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); BONDS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); TRENDS (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



636 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Labor Costs Up Slightly

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Labor costs showed a small increase in the third quarter, the Government said today in a report that provided little evidence of accelerating inflation.
The Labor Department said its employment cost index for the quarter rose seven-tenths of 1 percent, compared with a gain of nine-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter. "Inflation numbers have been quite benign," said Raymond Stone, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J. 
 But forward-looking economic indicators, like strong consumer spending and rising raw material prices, point to a faster pace of inflation ahead, he said.
For example, a report today from the National Association of Realtors showed sales of previously owned homes increased 1 percent in September even as mortgage rates climbed to two-year highs. As a result, home resales this year could reach the second-highest level on record, the real estate industry group said.
Such strength is expected to persuade the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates in November for the sixth time this year.
Home sales rose to an annual rate of 3.97 million units in September, aftera 1 percent drop in August to a 3.93 million rate. August sales were originally reported as a 1.8 precent decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; WAGES AND SALARIES REAL ESTATE (91%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); 

PERSON: STONE, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



637 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: As China Upgrades Its Nuclear Arsenal, It Debates Need for Guns vs. Butter

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
In the next few months, as American and Russian reconnaissance satellites watch, China's nuclear weapons agency will lower a hydrogen bomb into an 1,800-foot shaft beneath the Gobi Desert.
Then, at the most politically opportune moment, the order will go out to detonate it.
Like one exploded earlier this month, the warhead may be the prototype for China's new submarine-launched ballistic missile. Or it may be a miniaturized warhead that could be bolted to China's first multiple-warhead missile able to reach Russian and American cities. 
 Whatever the design and function of its latest nuclear weapons, the question is: where is China's strategic enemy?
China, the world's third-largest nuclear power in terms of explosive strength, is wrestling with basic choices about the financing and deployment of its nuclear forces.
Should it build a fleet of ballistic missile submarines to give the Government added assurance that it could fire a retaliatory strike in a nuclear war, even if building such a fleet requires the diversion of billions of dollars from pressing domestic needs?
Does it need new mobile intercontinental missiles able to reach Moscow and Washington, or should it channel that investment into railroads, highways, bridges and power plants, which are all desperately needed to develop the economy?
 
Who Is the Enemy? What Is the Target?
 "It is clear that there is a great debate in China over who is the enemy and what is the target," said Prof. John W. Lewis of Stanford University, an authority on China's defense establishment and a close associate of Defense Secretary William J. Perry, who has been pressing China to stop its nuclear testing program.
Referring to China's strategic arsenal, Mr. Lewis said, "There is no consensus of what all these weapons are for anymore."
A State Department specialist on China said, "They do face an awful lot of the same kinds of questions as we do, as the French do and the Russians."
The end of the cold war has caught China's military leaders in midstream as they try to modernize their first generation of nuclear weapons and delivery systems, which were deployed in the 1970's and 1980's. The second-generation improvements in mobility, reliability and overall survivability are essential, China's military leaders assert, if China's modest deterrent force is to be credible into the next century.
By comparison, the nuclear inventories of Russia and the United States are each 20 times as large as China's. France reportedly has more warheads, but the total explosive power of China's 300 to 400 weapons makes it the third-largest nuclear weapons state by most estimates.
 
The 'Triad': Aircraft, Missiles and Subs
 China has a "triad" of strategic nuclear forces: bombs that can be delivered by aircraft, warheads on ballistic missiles and other nuclear-tipped missiles that can be fired from China's single strategic submarine.
Still, the gap between China and the superpower arsenals of Russia and the United States is huge. China's military leaders worry that their small missile force could be rendered impotent by a proposed antimissile system under study by the Clinton Administration.
Nevertheless, the perceived threat of China's nuclear might has fed fears in India, which regards itself as a potential target and uses that fear to justify its own weapons program.
The Chinese, who rarely speak in public about their nuclear weapons policy, have on rare occasions met privately with American scientists and arms control specialists. In one such discussion, in 1991, the country's leading nuclear physicist, Zhu Guangya, said, "China developed nuclear weapons for no other purpose than preventing the use of them."
"What is important," he added, is that nations "should all have adequate confidence in their security."
To the Chinese leadership their force is modest, but Western arms control experts and Chinese scientists warn that a decision by Washington to deploy antimissile systems that could defeat China's retaliatory ability could lead to a new nuclear arms race.
China might seek more warheads, and multiple-warhead delivery systems with decoys and other "penetration aids" designed to fool an American defense system.
 
U.S. Could Touch Off A New Arms Race
 Professor Paul H. B. Godwin, a specialist on the Chinese military at the National War College in Washington, says that if the United States proceeds with missile defense systems, the Chinese "will be pressed to increase the number" of their long-range missiles aimed at the United States.
Hua Di, a Chinese missile scientist who spent 20 years inside China's strategic programs and now lives in California, said in a recent interview that to prevent new enmities from arising, the United States, Russia and Japan should tolerate China's completion of its nuclear modernization program and then proceed with new arms control measures.
"The worst case would be if China became hostile to the United States," he said.
Though its economy is expanding at a rate of more than 10 percent a year, China will require vast amounts of capital to develop further and to overcome daunting problems of rapid population growth.
Huge investments in subways, airports and sea terminals are needed to sustain the economic growth that must continue if China is to provide for a country that swells by the size of the population of Australia every year.
Facing a large development bill, China's leaders are asking what kind of forces they should maintain and at what cost.
In strategic forces, "They are still building for a world that does not exist," said a senior United States analyst who specializes in China. "Their strategic programs are running under their own momentum, and they really haven't gone through a reassessment."
 
Chinese Leadership Faces Transition
 In China, this reassessment is falling upon a leadership in transition from the era of Deng Xiaoping to the generation now led by Jiang Zemin, 68, an automobile engineer who received his technical training in Moscow and rose to be Mayor of Shanghai before Mr. Deng selected him in 1989 as a compromise candidate to hold the top posts in the party and the military.
Whereas Mr. Deng as a young revolutionary commanded an army in the field and helped to nurture China's military strength over three decades, today's leaders, including Mr. Jiang, Prime Minister Li Peng, and senior Vice Premier Zhu Rongji, have never served in or commanded military forces.
Western officials are beginning to question who will chart China's military strategy in the next century. Will it be these new civilian leaders? Or will the military leaders, whose power and influence has grown since their tank and infantry forces crushed the Tiananmen Square demonstration in 1989, decide how China's resources will be spent?
"Jiang Zemin is working overtime to get the military on his side," said a former United States Ambassador to China, James Lilley, "but Jiang is a transitional figure."
A White House official interviewed in Washington said: "After Tiananmen, no politician in China is going to move very far away from what the military wants. If it were not for them, the politicians would not be there."
Though the world's other nuclear powers stopped testing in 1992, one Chinese expert estimated that there would be as many as four more tests of the miniaturization and reliability of China's new warhead designs.
Thus China is racing against time and technology, trying to deploy a modernized and more credible deterrent nuclear force for the kind of conflict that is increasingly difficult to contemplate after the end of the cold war.
"No one in China thinks that the United States is going to attack them," said Mr. Lewis, the Stanford professor, "but to maintain any effective strategic program, you have to modernize it."
 
Willingness to Sign A Test Ban Treaty
 Despite continuing underground tests, Communist Party leaders have all but committed themselves to signing a test ban treaty by 1996.
In Washington this month, China also made a commitment "to promote the earliest possible achievement" of a convention "banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices," said a statement signed by Foreign Minister Qian Qichen and Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
But even if these agreements are signed, they would leave a sizable Chinese nuclear arsenal intact.
Still, for China to complete its modernization, time is short.
Ever since Mao Zedong said that "power grows out of the barrel of a gun," China's Communist leaders have believed that nuclear weapons are the only instruments of mass destruction that have kept the superpowers from attacking China. As Mao put it: "If we are not to be bullied in the present-day world, we cannot do without the bomb."
Presidents Truman and Eisenhower weighed using nuclear weapons against China during the Korean and Taiwan crises of the 1950's.
"Mao said that we must have these weapons to be counted," Hua Di, the Chinese missile scientist, said in a recent interview. "China can never be an equal to either Russia or the United States. They never thought that they should have that kind of quantity or quality."
All China has ever wanted, Mr. Hua said, "is a survivable second strike," even if that meant "sending a soldier riding a bike or a horse to the missile troops to tell them to launch." That means that enough of China's arsenal would have to survive a nuclear attack, or first strike, by an enemy to make retaliation possible.
"The Chinese military is very primitive," Mr. Hua continued. "We don't need a lot of sophisticated control over our weapons. The briefcase carried by the man behind your President, we don't have that."
 
Goal Is Enough Force To Deter an Attack
 China's greatest fear for its future security, a number of specialists say, is the survivability of its strategic missiles.
United States intelligence agencies now fear that Russia, and perhaps Ukraine, are assisting China by transferring technology from the advanced SS-25 mobile missile made in Ukraine. American analysts also fear that China is getting similar assistance with the technology for multiple and independently targetable warheads.
Perhaps China's largest national investment to date in strategic delivery systems has been its only nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, equipped with a nuclear-tipped missile that has a range of 1,100 miles.
But the future of the ballistic missile submarine program is a mystery to outsiders.
The first submarine, which has undergone repeated sea trials since 1988, appears to have had serious technical problems. The current United States assessment is that it cannot go out on patrol with its missiles loaded and spends most of its time at its mooring.
Still, many experts, including Professor Lewis and senior American analysts, believe that China is committed to building a fleet of these submarines able to fire a new and more powerful missile with a 4,800-mile range.
"They'll build that boat, and they'll then proceed with a class," one United States official said, "and they'll get a lot of prestige from it and security, because no one can be sure that a first strike will get enough of them. There will be a sufficient handful to retaliate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's only nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine has nuclear-tipped missiles with a 1,100-mile range. (From "China's Strategic Seapower" by John Wilson Lewis and Xue Litai/ Stanford University Press)
 
Graph: "ARMS: Nuclear Stockpiles" shows total strategic and tactical nuclear warheads of the U.S., Russia, France, China, and Britain. China is estimated to rank third in terms of the total explosive yield of its warheads. (Source: Arms Control Association, Natural Resources Defense Council)
 
Map shows the location of the Gobi Desert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: GOBI DESERT (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (90%); GOBI DESERT (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MISSILES NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



638 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Regulators And Lilly In Accord

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Bowing to the Federal Trade Commission, Eli Lilly & Company agreed yesterday to accept restrictions on operating the giant PCS Health Systems drug marketing unit, which Lilly plans to buy from the McKesson Corporation in a $4 billion deal.
Lilly, based in Indianapolis, said it would sign a consent agreement assuring that other drug makers would have access to the PCS lists of preferred drugs, according to people familiar with the case. PCS is the largest of the prescription drug benefit managers, which employers and insurers hire to make price-cutting deals with drug manufacturers. 
 Lilly would also be forbidden from seeing the bids of competitors in seeking to have the lowest-priced products on the PCS lists, which would give their drugs preferential status. Otherwise, Lilly would have the information to always submit the lowest bids.
As part of such agreements, the commission generally requires the company to get advance approval of future marketing deals that might raise antitrust concerns.
A spokesman for Lilly declined to confirm the agreement, but said the company had agreed to extend the waiting period for closing the deal under the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust law to Nov. 3. The company said discussions with the agency were progressing and it was "hopeful" that it would get final clearance from the commission by that date.
The agreement yesterday opens the way for Lilly to complete the purchase next month. It came as the commission prepared to take up a staff proposal to impose the restrictions, which were demanded by druggists and consumer advocacy groups, who said the deal would ultimately increase the prices for drugs.
The same issues were raised by two senators. Senator David Pryor, the Arkansas Democrat who is chairman of the Special Committee on Aging, and Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, the Ohio Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee's antitrust subcommittee, asked the commission to reopen its investigation of previously approved acquisitions of drug marketing companies.
Merck & Company bought Medco Containment Services last year for $6.6 billion. SmithKline Beecham P.L.C. bought the Diversified Pharmaceutical Services unit of United Health Care for $2 billion last spring.
The F.T.C.'s staff has been reviewing the Merck-Medco records, which were obtained by a group of California pharmacies in a lawsuit contending that the Merck-Medco pricing system discriminated against their businesses, a lawyer for the group said.
In a letter about the Lilly deal yesterday to Janet D. Steiger, chairwoman of the commission, the senators urged the agency to "scrutinize this deal closely and, if appropriate, challenge it under the Federal antitrust laws."
Companies like PCS arrange purchases of drugs at discounted prices from the manufacturers. People in these plans typically pay $5 or $10 a prescription when they present a drug-benefit card at a drugstore; their employers or insurers pay the rest.
In these health plans, the members' choices are limited. Their per-prescription payment may be $5 or $10, but only if the brand of drug is on a list of those for which their plan has arranged a discount. For drugs not on the list, called a formulary, plan members pay all or a substantial part of the retail price.
By buying the drug-benefit managers, pharmaceutical companies are trying to regain control of their markets. Such deals enable them to push their products onto the drug lists.
Mitch Daniels, head of North American pharmaceutical operations for Lilly, said in an interview that the concerns about the deal were based on "a total misunderstanding of the market place."
"The paying customer is driving this market," he said. "We will only succeed by satisfying that customer's demand for more cost-effective health care."
He said some employers still wanted their health plans to be open to all drugs in what is called an open formulary, so Lilly has always intended to offer that choice "among a variety of formulary options."
Mr. Daniels added that Lilly had told the commission from the beginning of the negotiations that it intended to maintain "strict confidentiality of pricing information," which the company already required in its own dealings with Merck and SmithKline and other drug benefit management companies.
But Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a University of Minnesota economist who has been a consultant for the National Association of Chain Drugstores, a trade group, said the F.T.C. would have difficulty enforcing a consent agreement with Lilly because the agency's staff lacked "expertise in evaluating this market."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (93%); LLY (NYSE) (93%); MCK (NYSE) (93%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); GSK (NYSE) (84%); GSK (LSE) (84%); BIOC (EGX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS423450 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC); LILLY, ELI, & CO; PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC; MCKESSON CORP ELI LILLY & CO (93%); MCKESSON CORP (93%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (84%); PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (58%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (52%); DIVERSIFIED PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC (52%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC); LILLY, ELI, & CO; PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC; MCKESSON CORP FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INSURANCE (75%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); SALES & SELLING (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); AGING (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); LITIGATION (60%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



639 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Japan Hints at Conditions on Aid for North Korea Atom Plants

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Japan's Finance Minister hinted today that Tokyo might make its pledge to help pay for modern nuclear reactors in North Korea contingent on contributions by European countries.
In what could be the first of many debates over how to pay for the politically sensitive, multibillion-dollar project, Finance Minister Masayoshi Takemura argued in Parliament that Europe had an obligation to contribute to the North Korea project because Japan had helped to pay for the cleanup of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster. 
 Previously, it had been suggested that roughly 90 percent of the more than $4 billion cost of the project would come from South Korea and Japan, with contributions from an international consortium. South Korea's share has been estimated as high as 70 percent because the plants would eventually be merged into a broader Korean power grid if and when the two hostile neighbors are reunified.
There had been no previous explicit mention of European financing. Nor had Japan indicated before that it was putting conditions on its critical role in the project, which is aimed at eliminating North Korea's suspected nuclear weapons program and drawing Pyongyang out of its menacing isolation.
Japanese Foreign Ministry officials sought to soften Mr. Takemura's stand, saying that he was merely expressing his expectation that other major industrial countries would play a role in the project.
"This was not a precondition, in the strict sense," said one official.
But another official conceded: "Ultimately, it is a political decision. And it's not clear yet what is politically acceptable to the Japanese people."
The United States and North Korea signed an agreement last week stipulating that the North will dismantle its nuclear weapons program in return for a reliable source of electricity for its energy-starved economy and the opening of low-level diplomatic relations with the United States.
If the plan is carried through, it would represent an unprecedented level of engagement for North Korea with its neighbors and the United States.
The critical element will be construction of light-water nuclear reactors that produce substantial amounts of power but little weapons-grade plutonium, the key element in bomb production.
North Korea currently has one small reactor, and two larger ones under construction, that generate significant amounts of plutonium. Those would be dismantled under the agreement.
The United States concluded the deal only after coming up with a very general understanding with Japan and South Korea on their role in underwriting construction of the reactors. Now, some of the potential problems in settling the details may be surfacing.
One little discussed problem that some government officials have mentioned here in recent days is that the cost could reach as much as $10 billion because of the primitive nature of North Korea's economy and its road and rail system.
Hundreds of millions of dollars of roads and rail lines may have to be constructed or upgraded even before construction on the new plants can begin.
And several experts have said that several billion dollars may have to be spent to construct a new power transmission system in North Korea, because the current one is inadequate to handle a huge increase in the electricity supply.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UKRAINE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; EUROPE; JAPAN (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UKRAINE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; TAKEMURA, MASAYOSHI (MIN) MASAYOSHI TAKEMURA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



640 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: COMPTROLLER;
Candidates Continue Angry Tone

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN 

 BODY:
In their fifth debate, H. Carl McCall and Herb London kept up the already angry tone of their battle for the state comptroller's job, trading insults and mocking each other's platforms.
Mr. London, the Republican candidate, called Mr. McCall, the Democratic incumbent, "the Hans Christian Andersen" of New York politics, saying he was revising the facts of his tenure. Mr. McCall, in turn, accused his opponent of vigilantism because he is against tougher gun laws. 
 The two, who have debated each other more than any two opposing statewide candidates in the Nov. 8 election, have become more hostile with every meeting. Much of what they say is warmed-over quips from past debates or stump speeches, but neither passes up opportunities to take jabs at the other's record or make promises in the contest to become New York's chief auditor. Yesterday's debate, before the Long Island Association in Commack, was no exception.
Mr. London, a conservative Republican, said he would work to cut taxes in the state, and said his opponent is part of an administration that has been bad for business. Mr. London said New York has gone from being the Empire State to the "Vampire State," because its tax structure has driven businesses and jobs away.
For his part, Mr. McCall called Mr. London's proposal to eliminate the personal income tax "fiscal fantasy," and argued it would actually cause an increase in other taxes. Mr. London made the proposal in a recent interview with The Rome Daily Sentinel, but he backed off the plan later, telling reporters at a press conference that it was an "ideal" plan, but "never a realistic proposal."
"My advice to Mr. London: When in Rome, tell the truth," Mr. McCall said.
Mr. McCall said that contrary to Mr. London's contentions, he too favors tax reductions.
"When the Governor put out his executive budget in January, I criticized it because I felt it did not go far enough in providing tax relief for the citizens and particularly the businesses of New York," he said. "At my urging, the Governor did amend the budget and the legislature did pass tax cuts."
One of the comptroller's primary jobs is to act as trustee of the state's pension fund. Mr. London criticized Mr. McCall for once having said that he would consider making investments in companies with "appropriate affirmative action and other social policies."
"You want to invest in those firms that have appropriate investment stategies that are generating maximum accruals on that investment," Mr. London said. "That should be the first overarching concern when you consider your investment strategy."
Mr. McCall disagreed with the characterization of his investment strategy.
"We have made prudent, sound investments that have brought about the best possible returns to the people in the pension system," he said. "We've never even looked into the social policies or other conditions in terms of where we have made our investments."
Mr. McCall said his office is conducting an audit of the state's economic development programs to assess whether they are doing the best possible job to keep and attract businesses.
"Rather than rolling out the red carpet for business, we have rolled out the red tape," he said.
Mr. London said that as comptroller, he would be more involved in the state's budget process. He would issue an economic impact statement when the budget was announced, he said, that would show what effect it would have "on the economic landscape of New York."
"The real key to the future of this budget is a comptroller who is willing to exercise that kind of authority and use his platform as a bully pulpit for bringing about the requisite reforms," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; COMPTROLLERS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INCOME TAX (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA; LONDON, HERBERT I; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) HERB LONDON (96%); H CARL MCCALL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



641 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani and Cutbacks: How Much Will Voters Bear?

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
The sweeping new reductions in municipal government proposed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday were praised by fiscal monitors as another large step toward bringing the city's finances into structural balance. But the question that quickly emerged was, how long will such cutting remain politically sustainable?
Faced with a $1.1 billion gap in the city budget that was enacted four months ago, Mr. Giuliani acted swiftly, outlining a new round of cuts that on top of those already enacted, amount to the deepest since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's. And for the most part, the monitors said, he relied on 5,300 new work-force reductions and on program cuts, avoiding the kinds of gimmicks and one-time asset sales that can help close an immediate budget gap but do not provide any continuing savings. 
"It will not only attack this year's problem but help with the problem they have in the future years," said Eugene J. Keilin, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation.
The riskiest assumptions in the plan were intended to try to force the state to assume some costs and tasks from the city. Mr. Giuliani described his $113 million reduction in aid to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority as an effort to get the state to pay half the costs of subway passes for schoolchildren as it had just a few years ago. He also counted on a state takeover of some mental-health and alcohol-abuse services.
While such state aid may not materialize, Mr. Giuliani still won lavish praise from fiscal experts and bond raters who said that if he continued on his course, he would soon be close to achieving structural balance.
But the questions are, at what cost and for how long will the voters go along? The Mayor still faces a $1 billion deficit next year and a $1.5 billion one the year after -- although a large chunk of that deficit stems from his determination to push through a tax-cut plan.
Mr. Giuiani said yesterday that he was maintaining core services and that over time his course would lead to economic growth in the city.
But other officials were increasingly asking how Mr. Giuliani's reductions will affect the quality of life, not only for the poor but for the middle-class tax-paying base that the Mayor is seeking to keep in the city.
Will voters rebel against reductions in the pickup of recyclables? The elimination of bridge painters and maintenance workers? Cuts at the City University that could lead it to turn away students? And further deep reductions at the Board of Education, under which children have had long waits simply to get into kindergarten and some overcrowded high schools are on triple session?
Mr. Giuliani's first hurdle will be the City Council, which went along docilely with his first round of reductions last spring, unwilling to suggest a tax increase and stymied by the huge size of the city's deficit. Yesterday, City Council leaders seemed much less accepting of the second round of cuts.
"Just as we cannot tax our way out of our fiscal problem, we cannot simply cut our way out either," said Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, who pronounced, "Thanks, but no thanks," to the Mayor's new round of budget cuts, although the only alternative he suggested was unspecified cuts in bureacracy.
Outside City Hall figures as disparate as John Cardinal O'Connor and Felix G. Rohatyn, the influential municipal banker, have begun raising questions about the Mayor's course. The Cardinal spoke out last week against cuts that hurt the poor. And Mr. Rohatyn suggested to the Mayor earlier this fall that he needed a plan that would finance the sizing down of government over several years and ease the pain of repeated cutting.
Under Mr. Rohatyn's proposal -- looked at skeptically by the credit rating agencies in the past -- the city would get an infusion of borrowed cash and in return develop a multiyear, predictable scheme to further pare its work force, reduce some taxes to spur the economy and shed some services to the state.
'I don't believe you can go back and slice the salami a little thinner every three months," he said yesterday. "I think the Mayor has been doing a terrific job. But the reality of life is this structural deficit is out there. From both the psychological and morale and practical point of view you just cannot keep on doing this."
Mr. Keilin, who succeeded Mr. Rohatyn as head if the Municipal Assistance Corporation, told his board just last week that he thought it likely over time, as more cuts hit, that the momentum would build for Mr. Rohatyn's approach. And Giuliani aides have suggested that for their second budget plan next year, they are looking at a much more fundamental change in the structure of government, seeking to go beyond their piecemeal cuts.
But any plan is likely to require extensive support from the state government, either through mandate relief or a willingness to assume responsibility for some city services or agreement to allow M.A.C. financing -- which means that Mr. Giuliani will have a lot to ask from Mario M. Cuomo, the man he so dramatically endorsed this week, should the Governor win re-election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CHILDREN (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (50%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



642 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: In a Mixed Session, Dow Drops 4.71

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market closed mixed yesterday as a key sale of Treasury securities indicated that short-term interest rates were headed higher.
But some soft economic data, which many traders interpreted as good for stocks and bonds, helped cushion the blow of the Treasury auction. A modest recovery by the dollar against most other leading currencies also helped. 
 Bond traders had worried about the Treasury Department's $17 billion auction yesterday of two-year notes, expecting a high yield of 6.87 percent for the notes. Instead, they got an even higher 6.88 percent. Such small shifts are closely watched by bond traders for what they portend for future rates.
The premium of 2.13 percent more than the Federal Reserve Board's 4.75 percent target for the Federal funds rate is high by historical standards, bond traders said. But that is because investors are already betting that the Fed will raise the target for the funds rate by at least half a percentage point. The Fed's policy-setting committee meets Nov. 15, but could act sooner.
Investors also reviewed the mixed reports on the economy. The Conference Board reported the fourth consecutive monthly drop in consumer confidence, while the Labor Department said wage and other costs rose a modest seven-tenths of 1 percent in the third quarter, indicating little inflation pressure. The news prompted a brief rally, in which the Dow rose by as much as 8 points. Shortly after 12:30 P.M., though, the Dow began falling in earnest.
Still, the housing market continued to show strength. September existing-home sales rose 1 percent, instead of falling three-tenths of 1 percent as analysts had expected. Earlier this month, housing starts also showed surprising strength.
The dollar recovered after setting a new low against the Japanese yen and a two-year low against the German mark. It also closed up against the French and Swiss francs.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 4.71 points to 3,850.59, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 rose 0.69 point to 461.52. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 2.95 points to 758.26.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 326.1 million shares, about 13 percent above this year's average of 288 million shares.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.01 point to 253.51, with declining stocks outpacing advancers 1,408 to 799. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 0.88 point to 452.85.
Among issues with notable activity yesterday were the American depository receipts for Telefonos de Mexico, the Big Board's most active at more than 11 million A.D.R.s. Telmex fell 3 1/8, to 57 3/8, after the company posted lower-than-expected quarterly earnings. A.D.R.s are sold by foreign companies in the United States in lieu of shares. One Telmex A.D.R. equals 20 ordinary shares.
Shares of Compuware, a maker of specialized computer software for computer maintenance, fell 9 3/4, to 37 3/4, also on disappointing earnings.
Dr Pepper/7 Up rose 2 1/8, to 24 1/2, after traders speculated that Cadbury Schweppes would either raise its stake in the company or initiate a takeover. In a Government filing, Cadbury said it had had unspecified talks with Dr Pepper.
Capital Cities/ABC rose 1 3/8, to 79, after an analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons raised his earnings projection and his stock assessment to "buy."
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 15 stocks fell, led by International Paper, which fell 1 5/8, to 75 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (50%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) TREASURY DEPARTMENT (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); GERMAN MARK (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



643 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Less Demand For New Bills At Auction

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Government securities were little changed yesterday after a mildly disappointing auction of two-year notes. Retail demand was significantly lower than in recent two-year sales, traders said, disappointing many market participants who had thought the sale would be more popular.
Over all, the market remained sour. A weak dollar in the currency markets and expectations of further Federal Reserve rate increases contributed to the mood. 
 Looking beyond today's auction of five-year notes, usually a harder sell than the two-year notes, the market will be waiting for the Government release on Friday of data on how the economy performed in the third quarter.
The 30-year bond held at 9329/32 to yield 8.04 percent, unchanged from Monday. And in bills of shorter maturity, rates were virtually unchanged except for the three-month bill, which was down 4 basis points to 5.02 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
At yesterday's $17.27 billion Government auction, the two-year notes were priced to yield 6.88 percent -- the highest level in more than three years. The 6 7/8 percent coupon and the maturity date on the two-year note are identical to those of a five-year note issued on Oct. 31, 1991.
To avoid duplication, the Treasury issued new versions of the existing five-year note, which has only two years to maturity, instead of a new two-year note. Ahead of yesterday's auction, traders were expecting a yield of 6.87 percent. The 6.88 percent yields was 33 basis points greater than the yield last month of 6.55 percent.
Kevin McClintock, manager of fixed-income portfolios for Aeltus Investment Management, predicted that the bear market would continue. "The question is, where does it stop?" he said. "I personally think it won't stop for a while."
While Mr. McClintock said the market could enjoy a brief respite, he said the Fed had not yet tightened monetary policy enough to turn the tide. "Without a 100-basis point move by the Fed, we're likely not to see a change to the up trend in interest rates," he said.
The market did receive some support from the Labor Department, which reported that businesses' wage, salary and benefit costs rose a modest seven-tenths of a percent in the third quarter. That bolstered the case that there is little evidence of accelerating inflation. What's more, the consumer confidence index slipped to 87.7 for October, slightly lower than anticipated. The October index included a rise in current conditions to 90.3 from 89.5, but a decline in expectations to 85.9 from 89.5. That helped the market to recover from some early losses.
But the consumer confidence measure for the previous month was revised up to 89.5 from 88.4. Putting it all together, analysts said there was not enough change in the index to warrant a shift in the outlook for consumer spending.
Despite slight improvement as the day moved on, the potential for any meaningful gains was limited. That is because bondholders viewed any uptick in the market price as an opportunity to sell before prices dipped further.
Later in the afternoon the bond slipped back, with few buyers willing to come in before today's tougher five-year auction. They were also nervous that Friday's report on gross domestic product might not meet expectations of an advance of 2.5 to 3 percent in the third quarter.
In the municipal bond market, the City of Chicago sold $274.7 million of general airport second-lien refunding revenue bonds for O'Hare airport. The bonds were issued through Merrill Lynch. The tax-exempt financing produced a maximum yield of 6.78 percent for a bond due in 2015.
For another long maturity, investors were offered a bond due in 2012 that was priced to yield 6.735 percent. Shorter-maturity serial bonds were priced to yield from 6.10 percent in 2005 to 6.50 percent in 2009.
Underwriters said that because interest and principal were insured by the Municipal Bond Investor's Assurance Corporation, the financing was rated triple-A by rating agencies.
Here are the results of yesterday's auction of new two-year notes:
 
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 6.88%
Low Yield . . . 6.80%
Median Yield . . . 6.85%
Accepted at low price . . . 10%
Total applied for . . . $41,586 363
Accepted . . . $17,271,213
Noncompetitive . . . $1,287,000
Interest set at . . . 6.875%
 
The two-year notes mature on Oct. 31, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT AELTUS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



644 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: New York Seeking To Retake Housing Fixed by Squatters

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
When Peter Spagnuolo first saw the building on East 13th Street that he now calls home it was little more than a roofless hulk -- burned by arsonists and stripped by vandals of its wiring, windows and bathroom and kitchen fixtures.
The city, which owned the building, paid little attention as Mr. Spagnuolo and others who needed places to live dug out the garbage and debris, rebuilt the roof, reconnected plumbing lines and wiring and put back kitchens and bathrooms. 
 But now, six years later, New York officials want it back. Having already rehabilitated most of the abandoned apartment buildings it took over in the 1970's and 80's, the city is now planning to take over buildings occupied by Mr. Spagnuolo, his neighbors and other squatters as a way of providing housing for low-income families and the homeless.
The squatters, though, are fighting back, pledging not to be moved.
"When we got here, these buildings, this street was dangerous and dirty," said Mr. Spagnuolo, a poet, who added that he had lived in the building at 541 East 13th Street since 1988. "We cleaned up the buildings, chased away drug dealers and helped to make this street a decent place to live again. That deserves recognition."
Although hundreds of squatters are encamped in about 50 abandoned city-owned buildings, over the years officials have largely let them alone and in a few cases actually helped them make homes out of the decrepit buildings. But housing officials say that with thousands of people on waiting lists for low-rent apartments, they have no choice but to go after the buildings that the squatters call home.
"These are very thorny issues, how to balance the equities," said Deborah C. Wright, Commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. "It would be different if their argument was that we were doing nothing to expand housing opportunities for low-income people. But it is unfair to ask people who have been waiting for the housing there to just continue to wait. We can't sanction what these folks have done just because time has passed."
The building where Mr. Spagnuolo lives, for example, is to undergo total rehabilitation before being sold to a nonprofit community organization that will rent apartments to low-income families and the homeless. Altogether, there are five buildings on the block, now occupied by squatters, that the housing agency wants to redevelop at a cost of $3.9 million.
Though the city is determined to reclaim buildings where squatters have nested, evictions will not be easy, especially on East 13th Street. Many of the squatters have been in the buildings for years and are likely to dig in their heels. Moreover, they have vocal supporters who have disrupted meetings and who have promised to challenge the city with force if the squatters are removed.
The city is also being challenged in court.
In June, a State Supreme Court judge ordered the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which has jurisdiction over the apartment buildings the city has taken in foreclosure, to return four families to the building they had been occupying illegally on 168th Street.
At the behest of the housing department, the police had removed them in April. But Justice Carol H. Arber State Supreme Court in Manhattan said the squatters were entitled to court hearings.
Earlier this month, the squatters on East 13th Street, believing that eviction proceedings were imminent, obtained a temporary restraining order from Judge Elliott Wilk of Civil Court, barring the city from ejecting them until a hearing is held on Nov. 2.
Urging that the city reach a compromise with the squatters, Judge Wilk said it seemed "pointless to me to take people there, to throw them out into the street to replace them with people from the street."
Housing officials say the court action has not deterred them. They say the squatters on East 13th Street are trespassers whose occupancy is not only illegal but dangerous to them, their families and others on the block. The electric and plumbing systems in the buildings, the officials contend, have not passed the city's building code inspections.
"We see no legal basis that prevents us from developing these city-owned buildings as permanent housing for 41 low-income and former homeless families," said Mara Neville, a spokeswoman for the housing department.
But the squatters argue that without them the buildings would have long ago decayed beyond any hope of repair.
"It would be a wrecking ball, not renovation crews that the city would be bringing here if it were not for us," said Sam Smith, a carpenter and plumber who helped rebuild the building at 539 East 13th Street, where he has lived for five years. "You can't neglect buildings the way these were and expect to come back years later and to turn them into housing again."
The squatters and their friends have transformed some apartments from dank hovels into decent living spaces where floors have been sanded smooth and where plasterboard, paint and new linoleum conceal the scars of years of neglect.
Still, the buildings have no boilers and are chilly even on warm, sunny days. Some residents use illegal heaters in winter. Visitors must navigate staircases with missing steps and banisters. The buildings have no intercoms or security buzzers, and visitors often announce their arrival by shouting from the street.
The occupants of the five adjacent buildings to be renovated -- 535, 537, 539, 541 and 545 East 13th Street -- have hired a lawyer, Jacqueline Bucowski, to fight eviction in court. One argument she will make, the squatters say, will be for rights by "adverse possession." It is a legal principle that holds that someone who has had the continuous use of someone else's property without a formal objection or notice to vacate has a right to keep using it.
The squatters will present telephone and utility bills and citations from the city's Sanitation and Fire Departments as evidence that their occupancy has been acknowledged. In fact, the morning some squatters met a reporter to discuss their court case, a Con Edison worker arrived to read the electricity meter in one building.
Affordable-housing advocates estimate that there are as many as 2,000 people encamped in loosely organized communities in the South Bronx and on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
It was in these neighborhoods during the 1960's and 1970's that thousands of landlords abandoned their apartment buildings amid growing urban blight and a declining economy. Over the years, squatters moved into some buildings, but the city looked the other way. There was little interest from a nearly bankrupt government in turning squatters out of buildings the city could not afford to repair.
Beginning in 1980, the city even sanctioned squatting to a certain degree through a homesteading program that allowed some community groups to take over abandoned buildings. Groups like Banana Kelly in the South Bronx and Acorn in Brooklyn started as homesteading organizations.
But when the city's economic health improved in the 1980's and the struggle to cope with a growing homeless population increased, housing officials began to look to the hundreds of vacant buildings it owned. In 1986, when the city announced its 10-year housing plan, the goal was to reclaim 53,000 units in abandoned or dilapidated buildings. At the end of last year, only 6,000 apartments were left to be renovated.
The availability of Federal tax credit money, which helped pay for renovations, made these vacant properties more valuable still. And a recent effort by the Giuliani administration to turn city-owned buildings over to private owners puts even more pressure on housing officials to reclaim the buildings.
"I have sympathy for anyone in a housing crisis," said Ms. Wright, the head of the housing preservation department. "But we are at a stage in our effort to recover this housing where there are no more easy jobs."
She added, "With the money available now for renovating these buildings, we need to move forward."
In the South Bronx, many of the squatters are newly arrived immigrants from Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. For them, settling in abandoned buildings is their way of staying out of city shelters.
By contrast, many of the squatters on the Lower East Side are artists and bohemians who were pushed out of the historically cheap living spaces in their neighborhood when gentrification spread to the area about 10 years ago.
"These buildings represented my only opportunity to stay in my community and continue to work in the theater," said Xavier Muhammad, an actor and playwright who said he has lived at 535 East 13th Street since 1986. "The city really needs to maintain housing opportunities for people like me. And besides, people on the Mayor's staff can get breaks on housing; why can't we?"
Mr. Muhammad was among the residents of East 13th Street who gathered on the block one day recently to hear Mr. Spagnuolo report on the previous day's court proceedings. Mr. Spagnuolo told them that Judge Wilk, who issued the restraining order, seemed to be urging a compromise when he asked the attorney for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development if the agency would consider giving squatters whose incomes qualified them for subsidized housing an opportunity to return to the buildings after the renovations had been completed.
"That is really not a solution as far as we are concerned," said Chris Schaffer, a squatter who joined the discussion. "We don't consider L.E.S.H.C. part of this community," he said, refering Lower East Side Housing Coalition, the group slated to take the buildings from the city and operate them as housing for the poor.
Ms. Bucowski, the squatters' lawyer, insisted that none of her clients have been part of the disruptive confrontations over squatters' rights that have taken place at some community meetings. But last month, the police were called when an angry crowd confronted members of Community Board 3 when it gathered to vote on the city's housing plan on East 13th Street. In an earlier incident, protesters locked board members into the community center where they were meeting and tossed stink bombs in through windows.
"We are not looking for a fight," Mr. Spagnuolo said. "We want amnesty and to be allowed to live and work here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marcello Medici, left, and Carolina Pisano in their 13th Street apartment, one of several that New York City wants to reclaim as affordable housing; Peter Spagnuolo, a squatter, standing on the roof of the building he helped to renovate. When he moved in there was no roof, and vandals had taken the building's wiring, windows and bathroom and kitchen fixtures. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOMELESS PERSONS; SQUATTERS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); HOMELESSNESS (88%); POOR POPULATION (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EVICTION (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); ARSON (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); FAMILY (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G PETER SPAGNUOLO (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



645 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Copper Near a 4-Year High; Lumber Is Off and Cotton Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Copper reached its highest price in almost four years yesterday with rising world demand depleting supplies. Inventories have tumbled this year, the result of record consumption in the United States and of rising use in Europe and in growing economies of East Asia.
Inventories on the London Metals Exchange have dropped 45 percent so far in 1994. In the United States, Commodity Exchange copper inventories have plunged 82 percent to the lowest level since February 1991. 
 "Everyone's using base-metal products," said Michael Frawley, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds in New York. "We're seeing signs of improved consumption in Germany, France and the U.K., and also from the Far East."
Comex copper for December delivery rose 1.35 cents to $1.1925 a pound yesterday, the highest price for an active futures month since January 1991.
On other markets, lumber futures fell and cotton rose while gasoline was unchanged. The Commodity Research Bureau index was down 0.79 point, to 232.25.
Lumber dropped the daily trading limit, as demand weakened with building activity expected to slow during the winter.
"There's still a fair amount of housing activity out there," said Jim Sterrett, general sales manager for lumber and plywood at Boise Cascade. Even so, "nobody wants to get caught with extra wood" when winter curtails building activity, he said.
Lumber for November delivery fell $10 to $321.70 per 1,000 board feet on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Cotton rose to its highest price in more than a month amid concern that the cotton crop in the Mississippi Delta might be smaller at a time of rising international demand.
December cotton rose 1.37 cents to settle at 71.97 cents a pound on the New York Cotton Exchange, the highest price for an active contract since Sept. 14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); EASTERN ASIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); EASTERN ASIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; SHORTAGES FUTURES (93%); COTTON MARKETS (91%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (68%); COTTON FARMING (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



646 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: What's for Lunch? American

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
IT was lunch time at Public School 144 in Forest Hills, Queens, and nearly 200 youngsters crowded along the beige picnic-style tables, tearing into brown bags and plastic boxes as if they were birthday gifts.
Others lined up for hot food served on trays as two cafeteria workers dished out sandwiches and pizza and gently prodded the children to take some salad and not to forget their milk. 
 The school's 600 students may speak a total of 62 languages, but when it comes to lunch, American is the food of choice. Indeed, the lunches consumed by this group of ethnically diverse youngsters are not all that different from what children in the 1950's might have packed in their Howdy Doody lunch boxes, right down to the Tootsie Roll pops.
"A cheese sandwich," Janece Lee, 7, said in between bites. "I also got Cherrios and M & M's. Oh, yeah, and water to drink."
"Peanut butter and jelly," exclaimed Nalik Zeigler, 11, smacking his lips for emphasis. It's his favorite sandwich in the "whole wide world." He takes a peanut butter and jelly sandwich -- the hands-down favorite among children -- for lunch every day. "I also got a chocolate doughnut, a Slim Jims and Tootsie pop," he said.
Radhika Chopra, 7, had a British-style version of peanut butter and jelly.
"It's butter and jelly," she said.
Butter and marmalade to be exact.
Regardless of gender, race, region or socioeconomic class, most children in the country seem to eat the same things for lunch. More than two dozen children interviewed recently about their school lunch preferences followed the patterns of children across the United States, a nation of peanut butter and jelly eaters.
Sydell Kane, the principal at P.S. 144, at 93-02 69th Avenue, has noticed, for example, that when new students from immigrant families first attend her school, they often bring lunches that reflect their ethnic backgrounds.
"The Japanese kids would bring sushi, and children from the Caribbean might have beef paddies," she said. "You'd see sandwiches on pita bread or tortillas. But after a few months, those same children would be eating cheese or bologna sandwiches or pizza from the hot lunch menu."
The most popular items children carry for lunch, aside from sandwiches, include fruits (with apples and bananas topping the popularity chart), followed by potato chips, cookies, candy, cake and crackers, says Harry Balzer, the vice president of the NPD Group Inc., a market-research company in Park Ridge, Ill., that conducts periodic surveys on national eating trends. The favorite beverages are fruit juice or fruit drinks, followed by soft drinks and milk.
He says that children are no different from adults when it comes to lunch.
"We don't change what we eat all that much," Mr. Balzer said. "The sandwich, by far, is still the most popular carried item. It's the last big homemade meal in America."
In public schools, about 18 percent of the children take lunch from home, according to the United States Department of Agriculture's 1993-94 figures. Nearly 56 percent eat lunch provided at school through the National School Lunch Program, compared with 49 percent in 1969, the first year such rates were recorded. The rest eat lunch in a restaurant or at home or eat no lunch at all.
Even though the food taken to school has remained American, foods served in school cafeterias are becoming more diverse. But the children don't quite see it that way.
"Pizza comes from . . . from . . . Domino's!" Christina Guadalupe, 10, said with a giggle, when asked the origins of the pizza she was eating.
What might have been considered ethnic cuisine 10 years ago, like tortillas, pizza, fried rice and beef paddies, seem American to students today. Taco chips are as likely to be found in lunch boxes and cafeterias as potato chips. Food experts attribute the trend to the rise of fast-food chains featuring ethnic foods.
And despite an ever-growing emphasis on nutritionally balanced, low-fat, low-cholesterol meals, parents, dietitians and school administrators often find themselves yielding to the culinary whims of youth.
Along with pizza and tacos, pancakes, hot dogs, sloppy Joes and hamburgers appear on school lunch menus from Denver to Forest Hills.
"How can I compete with Taco Bells and Domino's?" asked Suzanne Brown, a Denver mother. The two franchises supply items from their menus to certain schools in Denver. When school opened last month, Mrs. Brown painstakingly prepared lunch for her 6-year-old son, Cody, to carry to school. Two weeks ago, he told her to bag lunch for the rest of the year.
"I want to buy lunch at school," Cody said. "I love Upside Down Day -- we get pancakes on waffles."
In fact, breakfast seems to have become a popular lunch.
At P.S. 144, Krista Pedernera, 12, brought a cheese and egg sandwich. Pop Tarts are a virtual must for Jamie Rodgers, 6, of Chicago. And Lauren Williams, 6, of Washington, said she'd take poached eggs for lunch any day over hot dog and beans.
Children are at a loss for words to explain their taste buds and quirks -- like not eating their sandwiches unless they are cut diagonally with the crust intact.
"I just like tuna," David Geller, 7, said after a brief thoughtful pause, when asked why he chose the tuna over pizza, ham and cheese, chicken paddy and fish sticks on P.S. 144's hot lunch menu. "It tastes good," he said. "It's, it's just good, that's all."
Patrice Williams, 11, was eating pizza. "I hate fish," she said.
Why?
"I just don't like it," she squealed.
A recent study by researchers at the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle, who examined the food choices of students at 16 elementary schools in Bellevue, Wash., found that children will choose a low-fat lunch 30 percent of the time if it is presented as an option, rather than a must. But Royal Rodgers doesn't plan to leave that option to her 12-year-old son, David.
"His school cafeteria is like a short-order cook," said Mrs. Rodgers, whose son and daughter, Jamie, attend Francis Parker School in Chicago. "There are sandwiches on the menu, salads, hot dogs, fries. I know David. If it's left up to him, he'd eat hot dogs and french fries every day."
So Mrs. Rodgers does her "Mommie thing" and prepares lunch to be taken to school. She tries to make it balanced, with fruits or vegetable sticks, a sandwich and juice or milk, rather than soft drinks. Sometimes, she conceded, it's a losing battle.
Jamie, her mother has observed, would be content with one of those Oscar Mayer Lunchables, a packaged snack of crackers, cheese, ham, turkey or bologna, and David has taken to buying subs, occasionally, at a sandwich shop. "They make good ham-and-cheese subs there," he explained.
Perhaps an examination of untouched leftovers best explains what children prefer.
At the end of the lunch hour at P.S. 144, a case of low-fat milk had barely been touched, but the whole-milk and chocolate-milk cases were half empty. The salads, served with French dressing, were not very popular; many were tossed in the trash. The fruit cups outranked the cole slaw.
It's easy to see why some foods are left alone: some children have a taste all their own.
Kate Ekman, 7, explained her lunch of a sandwich of white bread slathered with melted chocolate, along with chocolate chip cookies, chocolate milk and raisins. "I like chocolate," she said simply.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandwiches of choice: for Ritu Chopra, left, it's marmalade and butter; for Krista Pedernera, cheese and egg. (pg. C1); Rublic School 144's students speak 62 languages, but American is the lunch of choice. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. C4)
 
Chart: "The Favorites"
 Here are the top sandwiches by children children carry to school, in order of preference:
1. peanut butter and jelly
2. Ham
3. Bologna
4. Cheese
5. Turkey
 
Source: The NPD Group Inc. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NPD GROUP INC (61%); PEANUT BUTTER & JELLY INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHEESE (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (72%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (62%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA; KANE, SYDELL SUZANNE BROWN (57%); HARRY BALZER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



647 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW: THE LAST SEDUCTION;
A Femme Fatale Who Lives Up To the Description

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN 

 BODY:
A hired assassin, an innocent fall guy and a husband and wife intent on killing each other made a sterling film noir spectacle out of "Red Rock West," John Dahl's recently released sleeper. Now Mr. Dahl, whose work will never again fall into the sleeper category, is back with "The Last Seduction," which makes his earlier miscreants look like a collection of cream puffs. "Red Rock West" was memorably smart and steely. But it's a walk in the park picking buttercups compared with this.
Nothing else about "The Last Seduction" is as polite or colorless as its title. Certainly not Bridget Gregory (Linda Fiorentino), the hot, slinky monster who is this film's central character. There were 1940's noir heroines with Bridget's brand of undiluted self-interest, but she also throws in a few tricks from the "Basic Instinct" school of interpersonal relations. Only in the insect or animal worlds are there comparable models for feminine behavior. And the female praying mantis is nicer to her mates than Bridget is to the men in this movie. 
 It takes about five minutes for Mr. Dahl to establish Bridget's breathtaking ruthlessness, as she robs her husband Clay (Bill Pullman) of the proceeds from a drug deal. Maybe she does this because Clay treated her a little badly, and maybe she's just ready for new scenery. Anyway, Bridget takes the money and leaves New York City, winding up in Beston, a friendly little town near Buffalo. No one in Beston has ever seen anything like Bridget, and neither have you.
Both Mr. Dahl, who directs this film with stunning economy, and Ms. Fiorentino, whose performance is flawlessly hard-boiled, exult in the sheer wickedness of Bridget's character. What make this easy to do are Bridget's stony seductiveness and her spellbinding talent for getting exactly what she wants. For instance, she soon appropriates Mike Swale (Peter Berg), a naive Beston resident who's wowed by Bridget's drop-dead sophistication. Their meeting alone, with Bridget unceremoniously unzipping Mike's pants in a crowded barroom, is guaranteed to make every man in the audience squirm. And wonder what's next.
Bridget, now using the name Wendy, lures Mike into one-half of an intense affair. (She herself remains maddeningly aloof.) Meanwhile, she puts down a few tentative roots in Beston, despite the fact that the neighbors' neighborliness is enough to make her cringe. She rents a house in suburbia (Mr. Dahl has great fun with that little contrast) and finds a job at the insurance company where Mike works. But she wants to keep their relationship a secret, so she slaps Mike when he tries talking to her at the office. "A woman loses 50 percent of her authority when people find out who she's sleeping with," Bridget declares.
Bridget will not be mistaken for a crusading feminist. Her outlook is much too selfishly pathological to have a political edge, and her glamour is too scarily seductive. Besides, Bridget is a more darkly fascinating anomaly, with old-style killer instincts along with a liberated aggressiveness that suits the present day. The audience can only sit back and watch in astonishment as Bridget embroils Mike in an intricate, deadly scheme that harks back to James M. Cain, while also doing her best to keep Clay off her trail.
"Red Rock West" had a mostly nocturnal look and eventually bogged down under the weight of its genre affectations. "The Last Seduction," which opens today at Sony Village Theater VII, looks sunnier and sounds less derivative. That's because its malice is so nonchalant and springs from the depths of Bridget's character, not from the machinations of an overloaded plot. Steve Barancik's clever screenplay builds up carefully and delivers a perfect payoff, one that suits the story while also acknowledging Bridget's very special toughness.
"Why do I have to turn off the lights?" Mike asks, when Bridget tries to give him orders about how to commit a murder. But of course: that's the heart of any noir-based love story.
"Pop psychology," she answers. "Let yourself know you've finished an unpleasant chore."
"The Last Seduction," a devilishly entertaining crime story with a heroine who must be seen to be believed, is as satisfying an ensemble piece as "Red Rock West." J. T. Walsh, who was also in "Red Rock," shows up as Bridget's lawyer and asks her the question on every mind: "Anyone check you for a heartbeat lately?" Mr. Pullman is especially good as a man who really did deserve to be married to Bridget, and clearly gave as good as he got while the union lasted, with all the dark humor that job demanded.
Mr. Berg is gently appealing and makes the perfect chump, which is no small compliment in such a story. And Bill Nunn has some fine scenes as the private investigator who thinks he can get the best of Bridget. Maybe male praying mantises feel that way, too.
Mr. Dahl's early admirers will find the promise of "Red Rock West" (and one other film, "Kill Me Again") furthered by a gripping story and a tight, suspenseful directorial style, not to mention a heroine who's literally to die for. Mr. Dahl was good to begin with, and now he's badder and better.
"The Last Seduction" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes profanity, explicit sexual situations and partial nudity.

THE LAST SEDUCTION
 
Directed by John Dahl; written by Steve Barancik; director of photography, Jeffrey Jur; edited by Eric L. Beason; music by Joseph Vitarelli; production designer, Linda Pearl; produced by Jonathan Shestack; released by October Films. Sony Village Theater VII, Third Avenue at 11th Street. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Linda Fiorentino (Bridget Gregory), Peter Berg (Mike Swale), J. T. Walsh (Frank Griffith), Bill Nunn (Harlan) and Bill Pullman (Clay Gregory).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Fiorentino as a ruthless heroine in "The Last Seduction." (October Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST SEDUCTION, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); 

PERSON: DAHL, JOHN; MASLIN, JANET BRIDGET GREGORY (96%); MIKE SWALE (85%); JOHN DAHL (72%); ROCK WEST (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



648 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Necessary Budget Pain

 BODY:
Confronting a real budget crisis, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has offered a new plan for more spending cuts. The supposedly balanced budget that the New York City Council adopted barely four months ago has already developed a huge gap -- $1.1 billion according to Mr. Giuliani, and possibly even more. The Mayor has made impressive headway in reducing the city payroll and negotiating better contracts with city unions. But it is time now to squeeze harder.
If the June reductions were painful, the new cuts will be more so because they carve deeper into programs that have already been trimmed. For the first time, there is a small cut in the police budget. Indeed, the new plan is page after page of mostly small trims, a little here, a little there. The Mayor is headed in the right direction, but the big savings that could right the basic imbalance in the city's finances have yet to happen -- for example, major productivity gains in labor contracts or fundamental welfare reform. Likewise, his search for programs that can be terminated is moving slowly. 
 The pain in the new spending plan is everywhere. City funding for soup kitchens would be phased out gradually to allow time for private funding to take over, assuming that it will. Snatching $113 million from the Transit Authority's current surplus may not hurt immediately, but the Mayor means it as a permanent cut in the city's subsidy for students' bus and subway fares.
Such cuts illustrate the dilemma confronting the Mayor and Council. The choices are open to criticism. They eliminate services that have clear merit. Similarly, the loss of 2,100 civilian employees at the Police Department will make it harder to put more cops out on the street. But there are no easy economies to be had. Another mayor might have made different choices, but Mr. Giuliani's overall approach seems prudent if painful.
On the day he took office in January, Mr. Giuliani faced a daunting $2.3 billion deficit in the budget year beginning July 1. It was worse than any gap since the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's. He closed it with cuts for most city agencies, notably exempting the police and fire departments, and with hopes for more tax revenues and more state and Federal aid than actually developed. His overall plan came to $31.6 billion, and the Council adopted it in June with little substantive change.
Within a few weeks, however, state authorities estimated that the new budget was seriously short because the Mayor was counting too heavily on savings and outside aid that looked unlikely. He now acknowledges they were right in large part, but his $1.1 billion estimate of the gap is still $300 million smaller than the latest estimate by Alan Hevesi, the City Comptroller.
By law, the City Council can only approve or disapprove the Mayor's entire plan, but in reality there will be negotiations and further modifications. The bottom line must be the same, though, because there is a $1.1 billion gap that must be closed. After that, still bigger gaps loom in years to come. This painful round is only a beginning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (67%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



649 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: A Choice and an Echo

BYLINE: By Robert Eisner; Robert Eisner is author of "The Misunderstood Economy: What Counts and How to Count It."

DATELINE: EVANSTON, Ill.

 BODY:
Just when the Democrats seemed to have something going with their attacks on the Republicans' "Contract With America," the Republicans have pounced on a counterweapon -- an internal Administration memo prepared by Budget Director Alice Rivlin. Titled "Big Choices," the memo is a list of largely unpopular options to hold the deficit in check and permit adequate financing of programs like the new national service corps, welfare reform and Head Start.
There is a fundamental difference, though, between the two documents. The Republican contract was signed by more than 300 candidates for Congress and presented by their leader, Newt Gingrich. The memo by Ms. Rivlin, a distinguished economist, is a set of hypothetical choices, with no endorsement from President Clinton or anyone else. 
 There is another difference: the Republicans tell us we can increase military spending, cut taxes and balance the budget at the same time and asks us to endorse that impossibility with our votes. Ms. Rivlin is at least honest. She says we have to choose.
But this does not necessarily mean that deficit reduction should be placed above all else. It is hardly clear that the tremendous deficit reduction Mr. Clinton has already achieved -- down this year to $203 billion from a Bush Administration forecast of $270 billion -- has won the Democrats many votes.
The Clinton Administration's focus on deficit cutting has caused it almost as much difficulty in enacting its programs as have Republican filibusters. The White House and the Congress are in a straitjacket that prevents them from spending more for one program without cutting something else. It is like telling your daughter that she cannot have a college loan and her education will have to be financed out of her brother's food money.
More important, curbing Social Security benefits is simply a bad idea, whether it is mentioned as a possibility in an internal Democratic laundry list or whether it is implicit in a Republican contract. Reductions in cost-of-living allowances would not only hurt the elderly, they would hurt the economy by reducing purchasing power just when our growth may be in danger of collapsing. And cutting Medicare or Medicaid, by leaving people sicker, would also undermine economic health.
Yet there could be a White House memo that the Democrats would be happy to see leaked. This one would set forth a comprehensive well-financed program to prevent and not merely punish street crime. It would include measures to bring up a new generation of educated citizens whowould be productive in a technologically advanced economy. It would include a program to support the basic research necessary for scientific and economic progress. It would include money for public investment on which economic growth depends.
I'll bet there are many such memos floating around the Clinton Administration. Perhaps if one or two were leaked, the voters could begin to see more clearly some of the real choices they have to make.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); WHITE HOUSE (63%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); WHITE HOUSE (63%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); MEDICAID (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); MEDICARE (61%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RIVLIN, ALICE M (DEPUTY DIR); EISNER, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



650 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Debate on Race and I.Q. Recalls Past Prejudice;
No Evolutionary Reason

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Jim Holt's article on "The Bell Curve" (Op-Ed, Oct. 19) made a number of important biological points about race and intelligence. His perspective becomes even richer if we consider the context of our evolutionary history. 
 Until about 150 years ago the vast majority of all people on all continents were illiterate subsistence agriculturists. Before 10,000 years ago we were all hunters and gatherers. The modern era has not existed long enough to cause genetic change.
For the majority, pre-modern conditions probably did not require different levels of intelligence. And the tiny pre-modern literate elites were not independent breeding populations. In short, there is no evolutionary reason to expect genetic difference between races or classes.
Furthermore, evidence from mitochondria DNA suggests that the line leading to present-day Asian populations split from the line leading to Africans and Europeans before Africans and Europeans split from each other. So if Europeans and Asians are more intelligent than Africans, increased intelligence would have had to evolve independently on two occasions, which is highly unlikely and very hard to explain.
It seems odd that in the 19th century, when Europe dominated the world economy, whites scored higher than Asians on intelligence tests. According to "The Bell Curve," Asians are now smarter. So who was smartest in the ninth century A.D., Muslim Spaniards? In 4000 B.C., the Egyptians? I doubt we have evolved a mechanism that varies intelligence with gross national product in 50-year intervals.
 
WILL PFLAUM
Professor of Anthropology
Medgar Evers College, CUNY
Brooklyn, Oct. 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE; INTELLIGENCE TESTS; BLACKS (IN US); GENETICS AND HEREDITY INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); DNA (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); 

PERSON: HOLT, JIM; PFLAUM, WILL (PROF) JIM HOLT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



651 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: New Jerseyans Learned the Hard Way About Cutting Taxes;
A Levy on Vacant Lots

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Promises and Deficits" (column, Oct. 19), Bob Herbert notes the ominous implications for New York City in the income tax cuts proposed by George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor of New York. Mr. Herbert quotes City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone: "If you're going to cut the personal income tax, you're going to have to make it up with real estate taxes and sales tax increases. Those are the only other broad-based taxes." 
 The effect of such tax increases has always been to depress business activity and the tax base. However, there is one broad-based tax that increases economic activity: a tax on the unimproved value of land, coupled with a reduced tax burden on structures. This would increase the holding cost of vacant or underused land and lower the penalty for construction or renovation.
About 10 percent of the land in Manhattan is vacant. At least an equal area is grossly underused -- by rundown tenements, parking lots or peep shows.
New York City could take a solid step toward fiscal self-sufficiency with an increased levy on land assessments. Our city does not need to go begging to Albany or Washington just to meet its legitimate expenses.
A higher tax on land, coupled with a reduced levy on buildings, is working today in Pittsburgh and 14 other Pennsylvania cities, as well as in major cities in Australia, Denmark and Taiwan. How long can New York afford to ignore this potent economic remedy?
 
LINDY DAVIES
Astoria, Queens, Oct. 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); SALES TAX (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); DAVIES, LINDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994



652 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: THE JORDAN-ISRAEL ACCORD: THE OVERVIEW;
Israel and Jordan Sign a Peace Accord

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ARAVA CROSSING, Israel, Oct. 26

 BODY:
At this desert outpost along their border, desolate except for their hopes, Israel and Jordan signed a peace treaty today to put behind them 46 years of war, mistrust and fear for tomorrow.
Israel's second full peace with an Arab country, coming 15 years after its treaty with Egypt, was witnessed under a lacerating midday sun by more than 4,500 guests and by President Clinton, who added his signature to documents signed by the two countries' Prime Ministers. 
 With Israel also having agreed to the start of Palestinian self-rule in parts of the occupied territories, it is now closer than ever to a long-held goal of coming to terms with all of its immediate Arab neighbors.
"This vast bleak desert hides great signs of life," Mr. Clinton said against a backdrop of sand and sage brush in an area known as the Arava Valley. "Today we see the proof of it, for peace between Jordan and Israel is no longer a mirage. It is real. It will take root in this soil. It will grow to great heights and shelter generations to come."
Speaking before the President, King Hussein of Jordan said the countries had turned the Arava into "a valley of peace." Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel referred to the many mine fields that speckle the border and said they should be supplanted by "fields of plenty." [Excerpts from speeches and the agreement are on pages A12 and A13.]
With their treaty, the two sides settled long-standing land and water disputes, agreed to broad cooperation in tourism, trade and other areas, and pledged that neither would let its territory be used as a staging area by third countries for military strikes against the other.
But even as the principal figures talked of displacing old sorrows with new aspirations, they were bluntly reminded that full Middle East peace remains elusive.
At about the time that the signing ceremony began this afternoon just north of the Gulf of Aqaba, guerrillas in southern Lebanon fired mortar bombs into northern Israel. It was not clear who had done the firing, but suspicion focused on the Iranian-backed Party of God, an Islamic group opposed to Arab peace with the Israelis.
In response, Israeli forces and their Lebanese militia allies unleashed artillery rounds at hills said to be guerrilla strongholds. While no casualties were reported on either side of the border, the incident underlined the distance that Israel must still travel for peace with Lebanon and its patron, Syria.
It is also far from full peace with the Palestinians, a point reinforced by a general strike in East Jerusalem and the West Bank called by three factions of the Palestine Liberation Organization and by the militant Islamic group known as Hamas. Thousands of Palestinians also marched in the West Bank town of Hebron and Nablus to protest the Israeli-Jordanian treaty, which has been denounced by Yasir Arafat, the P.L.O. chairman.
Specifically, Mr. Arafat was angered by a section of the treaty that recognizes Jordan's "historic role" as guardian of Islamic shrines in Jerusalem. To the P.L.O. leader, that represents a direct challenge by both Jordan and Israel to his own claims to primacy over the holy sites and to his desire to establish East Jerusalem as the capital of his hoped-for state.
But in the Arava, that anger seemed remote, easily absorbed by the ceremony's warmth and by the desert's shimmering heat. Thousands of soldiers and police from Jordan and Israel had sealed off the area, and there were no incidents reported.
Temperatures were in the high 90's as the ceremony got underway on the dot at 1 P.M. -- hardly the best time to be under the Arava sun but perfect for the network morning news programs just beginning on the East Coast in the United States.
In that sense, it was Mr. Clinton's show from the moment he stepped out of a black limousine and on to a red carpet stretching before him alongside a black Bedouin tent that briefly gave the major figures the only shade they enjoyed during the 90-minute ceremony.
The President was accompanied by his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who even in an age when such things are not supposed to matter caused a rustling in the crowd by turning out in a suit of the same turquoise shade as the one worn by King Hussein's wife, Queen Noor.
The guests, roughly 2,000 each from Jordan and Israel and 500 or so more from the United States, formed a Who's Who of politicians, diplomats, business leaders and clergymen, from black-hatted rabbis to Imams in flowing robes.
Foreign Ministers from 10 nations attended, not counting Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia. Their countries, despite the clear American dominance, are formally co-sponsors of Middle East peace talks that began in October 1991, producing little until Israel, the P.L.O. and Jordan basically took matters into their own hands.
Significantly, in front rows of white plastic chairs spread before the carpeted podium were representatives of eight Arab or other Muslim countries. Egypt was the only one to have diplomatic relations with Israel. The others were Tunisia and Morocco -- both of which recently established lower-level ties to Israel -- Oman, Qatar, Algeria, Malaysia and Mauritania. They all entered the ceremony area from the Jordanian side of the border.
Conspicuously absent were President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, a leading patron of Middle East peace, and Mr. Arafat, even though without their agreements with Israel it was unlikely that King Hussein would have been so bold as to strike his own separate deal.
Neither was invited, Mr. Mubarak because the King had not been on good terms with him and Mr. Arafat because neither side really wanted him. And after he was snubbed, the P.L.O. leader made sure that no one else from his organization went.
But definitely on hand was the past.
It came in the persons of graying guests on both sides who had been wounded in wars between the countries, from Israel's creation in 1948 to its spectacular triumph in the Middle East war of 1967.
That war marked the start of King Hussein's acceptance of Israel's permanence, and despite often rocky, even hostile, relations over the decades, he has maintained regular contact with Israeli leaders. It was only this year, though, that he decided to strike out on his own, leaving more powerful Syria behind, to bring his relationship with Israel into the light.
The past was there, too, with victims of terrorism who were in the viewing stands, and with their relatives, and with two young girls -- an Israeli and a Jordanian, each the granddaughter of a soldier killed in 1967 -- who handed flowers to the leaders on stage.
And it was there, a dogged ghost, in the words of the Jordanian King and the Israeli Prime Minister, aging war horses who have grown old together and have visibly grown to like one another.
"We will always cherish the memory and honor of all those people who have fallen over the years from amongst all of our peoples," the King said, adding:
"I believe they are with us on this occasion and at this time, as we come together to insure, God willing, that there will be no more death, no more misery, no more suspicion, no more fear, no more uncertainty of what each day might bring, as has been the case in the past."
Taking his turn and reading from notes, Mr. Rabin also spoke of the "many days of sorrow" that led to today.
"For nearly two generations, desolation pervaded the heart of our two peoples," he said. "The time has now come not merely to dream of a better future but to realize it."
Each man -- the ever-beaming King and the often-dour Prime Minister -- noted that peace had been made not only by their countries but also by them personally. They each had something to gain.
For King Hussein, the day brought full rehabilitation with the United States, after the isolation he had brought on himself four years ago by seeming to side with Iraq in the Persian Gulf war. For Mr. Rabin, in the rough and tumble of Israeli domestic politics, he now has a peace treaty that bears his Labor Party's imprint. The 1979 accord with Egypt was Likud's. Now, he, too, is a full-throated peacemaker -- not to mention 1994 winner of the Nobel Peace Prize along with Mr. Arafat and the Israeli Foreign Minister, Shimon Peres.
The treaty was signed by the Prime Ministers, Mr. Rabin and Abdul-Salam al-Majali.
Under their agreement, the countries are to establish full diplomatic relations and exchange ambassadors within a month. They also committed themselves to broad cooperation in areas like tourism, water, energy, transportation, environmental protection, agriculture and economic development. As a sign of how quickly they moved this fall to sign a deal, they gave themselves six more months to negotiate trade, banking and other financial arrangements.
For Jordan's benefit, Israel recognized the Hashemite Kingdom's claims to Islamic shrines in Jerusalem and said it would be given "high priority" when Israel and the Palestinians eventually negotiate the city's fate. For Israel's benefit, Jordan agreed that it would not join any anti-Israel alliance or allow its territories to be used as a launching pad for military attacks on Israel.
Two contentious issues were land and water.
On land, the Israelis acknowledged Jordanian sovereignty over 115 square miles of disputed territory, mostly in the Arava. But to protect their farmers, they got Jordan to agree to a swap of 11.5 square miles and to lease back two small patches of land -- a total of 700 acres in the Arava and near the Sea of Galilee.
As for water, Israel agreed to make 50 million cubic meters, or 13.2 billion gallons, available to arid Jordan each year, mostly by diverting flows from the Jordan River. The two sides also agreed to try increasing the total water supply by an extra 50 million cubic meters a year through dams to be built on the Jordan and Yarmuk Rivers.
A key point, both sides said, is that this peace will be warm, unlike the "cold peace" that Israel often complains it has had with Egypt, with few business or cultural exchanges.
Jordan supports "every word and every letter" of the treaty, King Hussein said. He noted that the two countries will have no foreign monitors on their border, unlike the situation in the Sinai Peninsula between Israel and Egypt or the likely arrangements on the Golan Heights if Israel and Syria come to terms.
"This is peace with dignity," the King said. "This is peace with commitment. This is our gift to our peoples and to generations to come."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, left, and Prime Minister Abdul-Salam al-Majali of Jordan, initialed a treaty map. (pg. A1); Rather than take refuge from guerrilla rockets in a bomb shelter that had no television, two residents of the northern Israeli town of Qiryat Shemona watched the treaty signing in their living room yesterday.; Supporters of the Fatah Hawks, the military wing of the Palestine Liberation Organization of Yasir Arafat, shouted anti-peace slogans during a rally in the Israeli-occupied West Bank city of Hebron yesterday. (pg. A12) (Photographs by Associated Press)
 
Chart: "CHRONOLOGY: Decades of Dealing at Arm's Length"
 
NOVEMBER-DECEMBER 1947 King Abdullah of Jordan and Golda Meir of Israel hold two secret meetings in Palestine and Jordan.
 
MAY 14, 1948 The State of Israel is proclaimed. Jordan joins other Arab countries in declaring war against it.
 
AUG. 15, 1952 Hussein, Abdullah's grandson, becomes King of Jordan.
 
JUNE 6, 1967 After war breaks out, Israel captures the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, from Jordan; the Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza Strip from Egypt, and the Golan Heights from Syria.
 
SEPT. 25, 1973: Hussein reportedly meets secretly with Prime Minister Golda Meir in Tel Aviv, a week before the third Arab-Israeli war breaks out. Syria and Egypt combine forces against Israel; Jordan keeps border quiet during the war, but sends token force to Syrian front.
 
OCT. 30, 1991: Middle East peace talks open in Madrid, seven months after the Persian Gulf war. Israel, Jordan, Syria, Lebanon and the Palestinians take part.
 
SEPT. 13, 1993: The Palestine Liberation Organization signs a peace plan with Israel in Washington.
 
SEPT. 14: Jordan and Israel sign an agenda in Washington for their own negotiations.
 
JULY 18, 1994: Jordanian and Israeli delegates meet at the border and vow to make a permanent and public peace.
 
JULY 25: Hussein and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin sign a declaration in Washington officially ending their 46-year state of belligerency.
 
AUG. 6: Israel starts pumping water from the Jordan River into Jordan, the first tangible result of the peace process.
 
AUG. 8: Jordan and Israel establish direct telephone links and inaugurate the first road directly linking the the two countries.
 
OCT. 11: Hussein says Jordan will sign a full peace treaty as soon as the border and water questions are settled, rather than wait until Syria and Lebanon reach accords with Israel.
 
OCT. 17: Israel and Jordan initial a draft peace accord.
 
OCT. 26: Israel and Jordan sign the peace treaty.
 
(Source: Associated Press) (pg. A12)
 
Map of Jordan showing location of Arava. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); JORDAN (95%); SYRIA (95%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SPAIN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; JORDAN; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); JORDAN (95%); SYRIA (95%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SPAIN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN ; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WATER; TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); PEACE PROCESS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); HAMAS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); WATER RIGHTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (66%); TERRORISM (66%); RELIGION (65%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN); MAJALI, ABDUL SALAM (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



653 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Small Rise In Orders Of Durables

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Prospects for further brisk economic growth remained bright today as the Government reported a small rise in orders for long-lasting factory products for September and revised still higher the very big August jump.
Orders for durable goods moved up one-tenth of 1 percent, buoyed by strength in ships and tanks that more than offset declines in automobiles and aircraft, the monthly tabulation of the Commerce Department showed. Although the gain was relatively meager, analysts said they were impressed by its breadth and by the fact that nonmilitary capital goods other than aircraft advanced 1.3 percent. 
 "You do see evidence of continuing momentum" in the economic expansion, said David J. Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley & Company, who called the report a bit better than expected. He cited in particular the second straight gain for capital goods, up 1.9 percent in August, a gauge of future production plans at factories.
The overall August rise for durable goods, big-ticket items ranging from camcorders to F-15 jets, is now put at 6.4 percent, compared with 6.1 percent in the first report a month ago.
The bond market largely shrugged off today's report as it continued to assume that the Federal Reserve would engineer a fresh round of increases in short-term interest rates at its next scheduled policy meeting on Nov. 15. The Fed's aim this year has been to throttle back an economy growing at an unsustainably rapid pace before such activity causes inflation to accelerate.
Spurred by inventory building, the economy grew at a 4.1 percent annual pace in the second quarter of the year, well above the 2.5 percent that many analysts see as its long-term potential.
On Friday, the department will issue its first estimate of the growth rate for the third quarter, with Mr. Greenlaw and many other economists now predicting 3 percent or more.
"We're surprised at how little effect higher interest rates have had" on the auto market, Joel H. Pitcoff, research manager at the Ford Motor Company, said today as the auto maker announced exceptionally strong profits for the third quarter.
Merrill Lynch, however, said it was sticking with its forecast for a rise in gross domestic product of 2.5 percent.
The durable-goods report showed new orders for transportation goods up 2.1 percent last month while orders for the smaller electronic equipment and primary metals industries rose 3.2 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively.
Orders for industrial machinery and equipment, however, fell 2.5 percent after a 4.6 percent surge in August.
Excluding military goods, total orders eased eight-tenths of 1 percent, the department's report also showed, but orders for capital goods alone rose five-tenths of 1 percent.
Shipments of durable goods fell seven-tenths of 1 percent last month, the third decline of the year, after a 6.2 percent burst in August. Unfilled orders were virtually unchanged after small declines in July and August.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted, since April 1993. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SHIPMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); BONDS (69%); PRIMARY METAL MFG (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%); BOND MARKETS (66%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



654 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
Companies
 
Earnings more than doubled at Ford, helped by vigorous demand for the Windstar mini-van, Mustang sports coupe and four-wheel-drive Explorers. The performance contrasted sharply with last week's disappointing results from General Motors. [Page D1.]
 
Lehman Brothers ousted Elaine M. Garzarelli, one of Wall Street's most prominent and flamboyant stock market forecasters. She was widely hailed for calling the 1987 market crash. [D1.] 

Why do regional phone companies want to go Hollywood? Consider Bell Atlantic, which, at a $200 million digital video-production center in northern Virginia, is introducing technology that goes beyond the staples of cable television. [D1.]
 
F.T.C. scrutiny of Eli Lilly's deal for PCS is raising questions about other deals for drug marketers. News Analysis. [D2.]
 
A criminal complaint against Prudential Securities is expected to be filed today, people with knowledge of the inquiry said. [D2.]
 
General Motors is recalling almost 13,000 cars and trucks in 21 model lines to replace a faulty transmission.[D5.]
 
Tenneco said earnings jumped, helped by strong gains at its Case farm and construction equipment unit. [D5.]
 
A public offering by Carver Federal Savings Bank resulted in losses in one day of trading for depositors who bought stock. [D5.]
 
I.B.M. briefly halted production of a new operating system. [D5.]
 
Borden reported a loss of $130.5 million for the quarter. [D5.]
 
The Economy
 
Mortgage lending to minorities sharply increased in metropolitan New York last year, but black applicants continued to be rejected more often than whites, according to new Federal data. [D1.]
 
Orders for durable goods rose one-tenth of 1 percent in September, adding to signs of brisk economic growth. [D7.]
 
The Federal Trade Commission has collected only about a third of the $363 million in fines it has imposed since 1980. [D9.]
 
Restrictions were announced on the earned-income tax credit and on refunds to taxpayers who file their returns by computer. [B13.]
 
A halt to commercial fishing off the New England Coast, once one of the world's richest fishing grounds, has been proposed. [B14.]
 
International
 
President Clinton plans to ask Asian leaders to commit themselves to free trade throughout the Pacific. [D2.]
 
Markets
 
A mystery about the identity of the chairman of Presstek has roiled the company's stock and left the S.E.C. blushing. [D1.]
 
Stocks were mixed in lackluster trading. The Dow industrials slipped 2.36 points, while the S.& P. 500 edged up 1.09 point. [D10.]
 
Treasury prices were lower in choppy trading. [D19.]
 
Gasoline prices rose again on a report of tight supplies. [D20.]
 
The dollar steadied, helped by signs that France would support the United States in any efforts to prop up a falling dollar. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
 
An Administration memo about choices in cutting the budget deficit drew fire from Republicans. But the memo represented a rare serious appraisal of the limited options for coping with deficits, including an overhaul of taxes and cutting some Social Security benefits. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
G.E.C. is expected to make a hostile bid for VSEL, a submarine builder. A bid would mean taking on Britain's biggest arms maker, British Aerospace. Market Place. [D10.]
 
The Postal Service is promoting stamp collecting among people who are not serious collectors. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CARV (NASDAQ) (68%); GM (NYSE) (58%); LLY (SWX) (56%); LLY (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CARVER BANCORP INC (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); ELI LILLY & CO (56%); AIP/PRESSTEK MERGER CORP (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MINIVANS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); PRODUCT RECALLS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



655 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Not Party, But Need Led Mayor

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

 BODY:
IT was dramatic, all right, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's endorsement of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. His news conference this week drew nine television cameras (two short of the unofficial City Hall record), what seemed like the entire mayoral staff and reporters so caught up in the moment that some lost all pretext of objectivity. "This is exciting, it's HUGE," enthused one, almost dropping her microphone.
But the most surprising thing about the Mayor's break with his party is that he got around to it so quickly, not that he did it. All New York mayors cross party lines. They have to if the other party holds sway in Washington or Albany. The City needs friends in both places. 
 "The Mayor must have a cooperative and helpful relationship with Albany," said Edward Sadowsky, former chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee. "Must! It can't work otherwise. We're creatures of state. What they can do to us in terms of mandates, tax revenues, is just monumental."
WHATEVER other reasons may have figured in Mr. Giuliani's decision to endorse Mr. Cuomo over State Senator George E. Pataki -- his feud with Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, or ambitions to maybe seek higher office unencumbered by a powerful Republican in Albany -- the city's position as municipal mendicant clearly topped his list. As goes New York City, so goes Rudy Giuliani. And New York City always needs help.
The funny thing is, the Mayor's politics are closer to Mr. Pataki's. To close a budget deficit, for instance, Mr. Giuliani is relying solely on cuts. The Governor, by contrast, has faced his stringencies with cuts, tax increases and fiscal gimmicks.
The more Albany spends, of course, the better for the city. A fiscal conservative as governor, reducing state taxes as Mr. Pataki proposes and cutting in Albany as Mr. Giuliani is in City Hall, would hobble the city and force it to raise local taxes. And that is what the Mayor's endorsement of Mr. Cuomo was fundamentally about -- money. It's the same reason Fiorello H. La Guardia, the fusion-Republican mayor, allied himself with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Democrat.
"This is the historic conundrum of New York City, the relationship of the city to Albany and Washington," says Richard C. Wade, professor of urban history at the City University Graduate Center. "How do you run a city which does not have the revenue to provide the services people expect? You can raise taxes, or spend someone else's taxes."
Not that Mr. Cuomo has delivered on the big-ticket items most important to the city. But he wants to. The Governor supports every position Mr. Giuliani considers important, including a state takeover of local Medicaid costs; a fairer distribution of state education aid, which now favors the suburbs, and limiting development around the upstate watershed, to help New York avoid building an $8 billion filtration plant.
Mr. Cuomo has not gotten any of those things, thwarted by what critics say is his failure to forcefully overcome the opposition of the Republican State Senate. The Governor has persuaded the Legislature to make some incremental changes. Mr. Giuliani found no evidence that Mr. Pataki would even try.
THE State Senator says he supports Medicaid takeover but offers no details. He voted to strip the city of its ability to regulate watershed development, and he indicates that the school aid formula seems fair to him. The city gets 35 percent of the school budget although it has 37 percent of the students, but the city gets a lot of other state aid, he notes. It does. But it has a lot of needs, too -- something Mr. Pataki has not had to consider too closely as a resident of Garrison in Putnam County. If anything, his community considers New York City the adversary. Upstate and suburban New York always has.
"It became very obvious to us, and I think it's becoming obvious to Giuliani, and frankly he's learned it very quickly, that the base of the Republican constituency is so different," says Richard Aurelio, Time Warner New York City Cable Group president and a deputy mayor for Mayor John V. Lindsay, Republican-turned-Democrat. "How can you possibly go to the Republican leadership in the state, who represent suburban and upstate communities, many of whom dislike New York City, and say, 'Do something for New York City'? It's not in their interest."
A Governor Pataki might change his attitude toward New York City, which, despite its costly problems, is still the state's economic engine. Then again, he might not. "I can't speculate," Mayor Giuliani said to New York through those nine television cameras. "I have to know."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BUDGETS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); POLITICS (70%); MEDICAID (67%); TAX LAW (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); HISTORY (60%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



656 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Commercial-Fishing Halt Is Urged for Georges Bank

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Faced with a fishery on the verge of collapse, a Federal council today recommended virtually shutting down commercial fishing in the Georges Bank off Cape Code, once one of the world's richest fishing grounds.
While some fishing could continue, the council, the New England Fishery Management Council, directed its staff to come up with measures that would reduce the catch of cod, haddock and yellowtail flounder, the principal species sought on the Georges Bank, to as close to zero as practical. 
 Because many of the affected species are caught in the nets of vessels fishing for other species, the restrictions will cut deeply into all kinds of fishing, especially by those using small-mesh nets, which often kill juvenile groundfish before they can grow to market size.
"It means almost no fishing," said Pat Fiorelli, the council's spokeswoman.
The council, meeting in Danvers, Mass., said previous restrictions on fishing that took effect in May in an effort to reduce fishing by 50 percent had not been adequate to save the principal species caught in the American waters of the Georges Bank.
The council, an industry-dominated group that under Federal fishing law greatly influences the regulations governing commercial fishing fleets, set in motion an administrative process intended to all but close the Georges Bank to fishing for groundfish, including the species that gave Cape Cod its name and reputation.
The council's recommendations must be approved by the Commerce Department to take effect.
Conservation groups said the actions showed that the fishing industry itself now accepted what its critics have said for years: that to save the industry, it is necessary to first save the fish.
Although the council and the Commerce Department will take months to put the regulations into effect, the consequences will last for years, fishing experts predicted.
"This is a real watershed event," said Peter Shelley of the Conservation Law Foundation, which sued the Commerce Department in 1991 for failing to stop overfishing in the waters.
The fishery council acted after a science advisory group reported in August that the situation on the Georges Bank had worsened. The scientists said the fishery could be saved only if mortality in certain fish stocks was reduced to practically zero.
The council's actions came at a meeting crammed with angry fishermen, and the effect on the already severely depressed fishing industry in New England is expected to be serious. The Clinton Administration has already begun to put tens of millions of dollars into economic aid programs meant to compensate the industry for the losses it is facing.
"It was a very heated meeting, with many, many fishermen very concerned about what this meant for them," said Doug Hopkins of the Environmental Defense Fund, who was at the meeting. "But it is the right decision and the council voted unanimously."
Shutting down the Georges Bank would probably put thousands of fishermen out of work, while others would probably move to other heavily fished areas like the Gulf of Maine or to waters off the Mid-Atlantic states.
The actions are only the latest sign of a broad crisis in commercial fishing, both in the United States and abroad.
The National Marine Fisheries Service has estimated that more than 40 percent of the nation's commercial fish species are too heavily fished. In New England, the agency has estimated that overfishing of cod, haddock and flounder have already cost 14,000 jobs and cost the economy $350 million a year.
Big parts of the Georges Bank have been closed temporarily before, in the effort to cut the catch in half. But the council's staff told it recently that the scientific basis for that plan, which among other things cut the number of fishing days 10 percent, was "no longer valid" in light of more recent surveys.
The council's recommendations come as Congress approaches major revisions to the main law governing the nation's fisheries, many of which are in bad shape.
The council is one of eight regional bodies that set fishing limits and allocate catches between competing fishermen.
For many years, the New England council was unable to agree to reduce catches of the principal ground-feeding fish -- cod, haddock and flounder -- though data showed the fishing stocks to be in a profound decline.
It adopted quotas in 1977, but dropped them five years later under pressure from fishermen. In the meantime, the Government made cheap loans to help build up the fishing fleet, increasing pressure on the fish stocks at a time when prices and consumer demand were both increasing.
Ultimately, the New England fisheries council and the Commerce Department did impose tough restrictions last year, but it was too little and too late. Already, under those restrictions, the New England fleet has started to move into new waters, including those of the Long Island area, where the stocks are healthier, fishing for species like squid, whiting, scup and fluke.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angry fishermen attending a meeting yesterday at which the New England Fishery Management Council recommended the virtual closing of commercial fishing in the Georges Bank off the New England Coast, once one of the world's richest fishing grounds. The Federal council, meeting in Danvers, Mass., will present its recommendations to the Commerce Department. The fishery is on the verge of collapse. (Associated Press)
 
Map shows the location of Georges Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND FISHERY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL GEORGES BANK (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND FISHERY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES COMMERCIAL FISHING (92%); FISHERIES (92%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); FINFISH FISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (90%); FISHING LAW (90%); FISHES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); APPROVALS (71%); MARKET SIZE (69%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



657 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: The Incumbent, Running in the Past;
Can Giuliani Chase the Musty Smell From Cuomo's Campaign?

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

 BODY:
It was the day after he had unexpectedly won the endorsement of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was flying high -- flying as high, that is, as his wary, pensive, rather equivocal nature would let him.
"Don't shove those things in so close," he said as the photographers and reporters thrust their cameras and microphones into his face, launching one of those rugby-scrum news conferences that are the hallmark of New York City campaigns. "You'll kill me, and just when my chances are starting to look good." 
 The Mayor's backing, the Governor said later, "ought to help a lot" in his uphill campaign for a fourth term against State Senator George E. Pataki, especially among independents.
"This is not simply one politician trying to transfer his popularity to another politician in the same party, which usually doesn't work," Mr. Cuomo reflected as his car inched along a Manhattan street without benefit of police escort. "A sizable number of people of all labels and categories are worried about this city and want help for it. Now the Mayor comes along and says this guy who belongs to the other party, who tried to beat me twice, and succeeded once, I think he'll help us and the other guy won't. People will think about that."
It is a measure of the hole Mr. Cuomo had dug for himself that Mr. Giuliani's support means so much. Although the latest polls have been showing the race too close to call, professional politicians had been telling each other, here and in Washington, that the Governor was not going to make it, and a slightly valedictory tone, plus a tendency to look back instead of forward, had crept into his speeches.
The thunderbolt of Mr. Giuliani's announcement sharply altered the mood of the Governor's campaign, banishing the musty smell of impending doom. But it meant that if Mr. Cuomo wins, Mr. Giulani, and not the Governor, not the old minor league outfielder, will occupy what Red Barber called the catbird seat. Mr. Cuomo will owe the Mayor a lot, if not everything, though he does not like to admit it. "Not if I have the strength to be an ingrate," he said. "I may have to start working on that."
Graveyard humor aside, the Governor's predicament is amazing. Seven years ago, and again three years ago, Mario Cuomo was considered a prospective President. A year ago, he was considered a prospective Supreme Court justice. Now, suddenly, he is considered a prospective has-been.
Governor of New York since 1983, he is acknowledged -- still -- as the premier American political orator and as one of the most intelligent people in American public life. The son of an immigrant grocer, he has retained the common touch that has been considered, since the days of Alfred E. Smith, the sine qua non of success in the raucous politics of New York City and New York State.
So what happened to him in the first place? How did he ever manage to fall behind a 49-year-old legislator about whom 40 percent of the voters in a poll taken less than a month ago said they knew too little to make a judgment? Is it just the wounds accumulated and the enemies made in three terms in Albany?
Has he been victimized by the intense (if perhaps temporary) national distaste for incumbents? Or has time passed him by? Has the sun set even in New York for the urban liberals, those devout believers in using government to fight social injustice? Has the tradition of Lehman, Wagner, Rockefeller and the two Roosevelts evaporated so quickly?
One of the Governor's predecessors, Hugh L. Carey, said the other day: "There is nothing wrong with his ideas. There are just no resources any more, and that makes it hard for him or anyone else in government to show results."
That is a benign view of liberalism's plight. A more hostile attitude is represented by the comment of B. Thomas Golisano, a third-party candidate, who summarizes the Cuomo credo (and problem) this way: "If it moves, you tax it; if it still moves, you regulate it; when it stops moving, you subsidize it."
At 62, Mr. Cuomo tends to blame his stars and not himself, although he said this week that he had "utterly failed to communicate what we have accomplished in the last 12 years," which sounds a lot like President Clinton explaining his own lack of popularity. One Governor's aide carries around a sheet of paper summarizing what he has done, to show to anyone who might need reminding.
Mr. Pataki's very anonymity has proven an advantage in a year when outsiderhood is revered almost like old age in Asian cultures. The Governor said at a meeting at a Manhattan synagogue one night recently, "It's very hard to box with a cloud of smoke, you know."
The mood in New York, Mr. Cuomo says, is as ruinous for incumbents as the mood anywhere else, and he rattles off the reasons, the words coming as ever in a seemingly unstoppable stream:
"The middle class hasn't gone anywhere in a long time . . . there's no uplifting distraction, like a war, and there are no heroes, no Joe DiMaggio or Martin Luther King or Bobby Kennedy, not even old Ronald Reagan, that genial man they grabbed because there was nobody else . . . they conclude that government has failed to solve problems, like crime and the homeless and drugs, which is certainly true, so why, they ask, should they give government any more money? . . . the American people are in a mood to pay a quarter and throw three balls at the clown's head, and I keep sticking my head into the circle."
All this is practiced, and he had said similar things to a British reporter the day before, but he is taken aback by a question about his legacy. In an interview at The New York Times earlier in the campaign, he finally said, laughing, that he wanted to be remembered for having served four terms. This time, he responds with a mixture of exasperation and fatalism: "My son told me in 1983 to think about my legacy, and I was offended by that. Now I guess it will be: I fought the death penalty."
A prominent New Yorker active in past Cuomo campaigns, but sitting this one out in disillusionment, thinks that the Governor is a big part of the problem, "just too damned self-centered, too isolated, unable to see beyond himself after 12 years in harness." He calls Mr. Cuomo "the most intellectually and emotionally frustrating politician, and maybe person of any kind, I have ever known."
"Ordinary voters instinctively recognize these problems," the former associate said, on condition of anonymity. "They know he's brilliant, they know he has this power, they know he has the capacity to deliver, and he doesn't. They are sick of the mess in the streets, and they are sick and tired of the rhetoric."
There is certainly plenty of the latter. The well has not run dry. And, as a state legislator commented, there is also an ample supply of a kind of soaring idealism that is missing from Washington these days. However apprehensive Mr. Cuomo may be about his future, he still wows audiences -- with his big vocabulary (what other candidate talks about homiletics and eschatology?), with his references to the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire and to black history, with his passionate delivery, his emphatic hand-claps, his self-addressed questions ("So what are you going to do about that, Mario?"), his jokes told in the cadence of the city's meaner streets.
But travel with him for a day or two, and you realize how much of his time the Governor spends in telling stories about the past. He talks about his poor, illiterate parents, about his mentor, Judge Adrian Burke, about Fishhooks McCarthy, Al Smith's legendary fixer, about the rabbi who helped give him his start and especially about his past electoral successes, "always as the underdog." He talks about New York State as "the tabernacle of democracy," as the engine of the economy, as if it were 1950 and California and Texas were still the sticks.
He lists for a meeting of Teamster leaders the strikes during which he has stood beside them. He does not mention that all were failures. He derides the idea that any politician can supply "some magic solution that will descend from the heavens." Mario M. Cuomo, proud professional, like his brother Democrats Edward M. Kennedy in Massachusetts and Thomas S. Foley in Washington, knows how complicated these problems really are.
So he rails, like the elderly Lear, at the troubles that have befallen him, at the rules of modern politics he is compelled to live with, at the impossibility of "discussing in a 28-second commercial the complexities of fighting the crime in our streets."
What he does not talk about very much are his plans. Pete Wilson, the Governor of California, a Republican of Mr. Cuomo's generation, was equally unpopular a year ago, probably more so. He has staged a comeback by finding dramatic ways to identify himself with the deep-seated public resentments that Mr. Cuomo also talks about, in Mr. Wilson's case crime and illegal immigration.
Mr. Cuomo has not done that. Mr. Cuomo hates oversimplification; Mr. Wilson considers it inevitable, the very crux of modern political communication in a large state like his.
David Garth, the Governor's campaign consultant, says Mr. Cuomo would be far better off if he had spent more money on earlier re-election efforts; he spent only about $5 million on each, compared with Nelson Rockefeller's outlays 30 years ago, at least $15 million every time he entered the fray.
But at least as important is the image of himself that Mr. Cuomo has built up, piece by tiny piece, over all the years and all the miles since he was elected for the first time in 1982, two Presidents and who knows how many speeches ago.
People hungry for quick fixes, the Governor acknowledged at one point this week, may ultimately be put off by "the very things I say and the way I say it, being as complicated as I am and trying to be as subtle as I sometimes do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A tendency to look back has crept into Governor Cuomo's speeches. He was at the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum on Monday; Governor Cuomo at a rally with Dennis Rivera, the leader of the hospital workers' union. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE INSURANCE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICS (73%); ATHLETES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



658 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Livable City Ponders Its Outburst of Anger and Unrest

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky., Oct. 26

 BODY:
This central Kentucky city rising out of rolling fields of horse farms, burley tobacco fields and bourbon distilleries is perennially near the top of magazine lists of the nation's most livable cities.
It is the home of the University of Kentucky, five medical centers and a score of clean manufacturing companies, and it boasts an annual per capita income of $18,142, which is 60 percent higher than the state average and about 30 percent above the national average. Unemployment is 3.2 percent this year, and by all accounts the city is thriving. 
 But amid the bluegrass expanses divided by black and white wooden fences, there are equally vivid contrasts here between the haves and the have-nots. And on Tuesday some of those differences were cast in stark relief when a roving band of about 100 black youths from a housing project near downtown briefly occupied the City Council chambers, stoned police cars and menaced motorists in reaction to the killing of an 18-year-old black by an officer earlier in the day.
Leaders in Lexington like Mayor Pam Miller and Porter G. Peeples Jr., the head of the local Urban League chapter, agreed that the disturbance was mild by the standard of most urban unrest, but they nevertheless saw it as a wakeup call to this otherwise prosperous city that some citizens remained alienated and frustrated.
"We're making considerable efforts," said Mayor Miller, who is the chief elected official of the combined Lexington and Fayette County Urban County Government, "but it's just that a lot of youngsters are frustrated because they have not gotten the education that they need to get good jobs and make a future. Those teen-agers came downtown angry and looking for answers from us, and it was a more visible display of anger than we are used to seeing."
The nine minor injuries, four arrests and 18 damaged car windshields and two broken store windows that grew out of the events were a modest toll, but many are taking them to heart as a warning.
Mr. Peeples said that he and other leaders of black organizations in this city of 225,366, which is 12 percent black, had talked for years about Lexington's social ills as signs of trouble brewing -- the high dropout rates for black students, the climbing teen-age pregnancies, the nascent youth gang scene and increasing drug involvement among the young. But people called them alarmist, he said, or accused him of trying to keep alive an outmoded civil rights organization.
"Lexington likes to pride itself on having a high quality of life," Mr. Peeples said. "Although there is a black middle class here, there really hasn't been a lot of inclusiveness. There are just a lot of young people here who don't feel that they have a good chance at the good life."
The unrest in the city started after police officers, bearing an arrest warrant, entered an apartment at the Bluegrass-Aspendale housing project shortly before 10 A.M. on Tuesday seeking Antonio Orlando Sullivan, an 18-year-old wanted in connection with a gang-related shooting last month in which one person was wounded.
Mr. Sullivan, the police said, hid in a closet and emerged only after four police officers, their guns drawn, repeatedly ordered him to come out. As he emerged, a shot was fired, apparently by Officer Philip H. Vogel, striking Mr. Sullivan in the head and killing him, the police said.
After initially calling the incident an "accidental shooting," Chief Lawrence E. Walsh today backed away from that description and announced that the Federal Bureau of Investigation as well as the state's Commonwealth's Attorney for Fayette County would be conducting independent investigations. Dottie Bean, a spokeswoman for the city, said Officer Vogel, a 22-year veteran, had been "relieved of duty with pay" pending the outcome of the investigations. Three other officers who were with Officer Vogel have been temporarily transferred to office duties.
The Rev. Michael Wilson, a former member of the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Council, said he knew of at least one witness, Joy Thomas, a 25-year-old baby sitter, who asserted that Mr. Sullivan was shot while his arms were raised.
Word of the shooting spread quickly through the housing project, a mostly quiet and well-kept complex of one- and two-story garden apartments, each with a small backyard surrounded by a wrought-iron fence. By about 3 P.M., a number of young people, angry at the news, had gathered and begun the nearly milelong trek to the 12-story building that houses city government offices.
Mr. Wilson, who saw the march, said that the youths, shouting but still peaceful, had surged into the City Council chambers and demanded a meeting with the Mayor and an explanation for the shooting. It was only after Chief Walsh had read to them his statement calling the shooting accidental that the crowd turned ugly, with many of the youths storming into the streets.
Today, many people here expressed a determination to look more closely at social conditions and to try to ease tensions. Mr. Peeples talked of meeting with other leaders of black groups on improving opportunities for young people as well as relations with the police. Mayor Hill seemed receptive, saying she, too, would meet with black organizations and church groups.
Still, along the leaf-strewn walkways of the Bluegrass-Aspendale project, anger and bitterness lingered. Ann Arnold, 26, a resident for nine years, speculated that it was partly the stereotype of housing project residents as "terrible people" that inspired a fear of Tony Sullivan in the white police officer who shot him. She said the same fear and stereotyping was behind news reports that made it appear that the entire housing project was attacking downtown.
"It was all overdramatized, like this was Haiti or something," Ms. Arnold said. "They make us up here sound so terrible, and that's what made that cop afraid. But there are just a lot of hard-working people up here trying to make a better life for our kids."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (95%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON (KY); UNITED STATES (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (95%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MAYORS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TOBACCO FARMING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); DISTILLERIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); COUNTIES (73%); RIOTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); GANGS (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



659 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2486 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE CHALLENGER;
Pataki and Peekskill: Reviving a City, Then Profiting in a Realty Boom

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER and MATTHEW PURDY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL

 BODY:
When George E. Pataki describes his tenure as Mayor here in the early 1980's, he emphasizes his role in resuscitating a shabby Hudson Valley river town with a dwindling tax base. Using his pitchman's skills and government subsidies, Mr. Pataki lured several major developers to this city of barely 20,000 people, igniting a real-estate boom that built more than 1,100 new middle-class homes during the decade.
There is a second chapter to the story of Peekskill's boom. In 1984, after he resigned as Mayor to become a State Assemblyman, Mr. Pataki, the most powerful politician in this Republican-controlled town, began seeking the financial benefits of the real-estate boom he helped create. He set up a law office in Peekskill with his brother and attracted at least $160,000 in work from developers, including some of the same people he brought to the city as Mayor. 
 There is little mystery why the small Pataki law office, which earned most of its income from these developers, was attracting this business.
As Louis Pataki, the Republican candidate's brother, said: "The business from the developers came because he knew the developers. I don't think there's any doubt about that. I assume it's from the time he was Mayor."
Mr. Pataki's tenure as Peekskill's Mayor -- his only leadership role in a 13-year political career -- and the years afterward as a dominant presence here offer a concrete look at his vision and priorities as he seeks the governorship of New York State. In many ways, it provides a clearer picture than his Albany record as a four-term minority-party Assemblyman and one-term State Senator.
In an interview, Mr. Pataki said he saw no conflict in his work for the same developers he brought into Peekskill since he never represented them before any city agency. "Never did I use political influence to benefit anyone other than the city of Peekskill," he added.
While Mr. Pataki was Mayor, real-estate development defined him politically and it has also shaped his private finances, to the point that sometimes the line between his public and private roles has blurred.
One developer whom Mr. Pataki helped as Mayor to win a $3 million government loan said that after leaving the Mayor's job, Mr. Pataki solicited legal business from him. The developer, Victor Weingarten, said Mr. Pataki's firm represented his company in the sale of 175 condominiums, a job that brought the Pataki brothers' law firm roughly $61,250.
Another Peekskill developer turned to Mr. Pataki's firm to handle the closing for about 200 home sales, at charges of $300 to $425 each -- worth somewhere between $60,000 and $85,000. And he also did closings for both those developers in Putnam and Orange counties.
"My recollection is that almost every developer let them do the closings," said Mr. Weingarten, who called the legal work "relatively simple boilerplate." He added: "They almost had a lock on closings. They went after that business very aggressively and did it very cheaply."
 
A Matter of Influence
A Role in Decisions As an Ex-Mayor
 Peekskill officials said Mr. Pataki did not violate local ethics laws, and even in municipalities with stricter codes, like New York City, such transactions fall into a cloudy category, according to experts.
But what is clear is that long after he stepped down as Mayor, Mr. Pataki continued to have a major role in city decision making and there were times when people in Peekskill were not sure which hat Mr. Pataki was wearing -- public official or developer's representative.
Joseph Seymour, the Peekskill city manager, said that in the decade since Mr. Pataki left the Mayor's post, "he met with me once a month: 'Joe, you've got to do this, you've got to do that. This building's got to come down. Try this.' "
And Edmond F. Schorno, the city planning director, recalls a 1986 incident when Assemblyman Pataki called him to make inquiries about a developer's request to build more homes per acre than initially planned. Mr. Schorno said that he assumed Mr. Pataki was calling as an Assemblyman but that regardless, the call had no effect on the application. Only recently, when Mr. Pataki made his financial statements available to reporters during the governor's race, was it revealed that the developer was also a law client of Mr. Pataki's.
Mr. Pataki acknowledged in the interview that he made this inquiry for the development company, which had hired his law firm to do all its closings in New York State. But he said, "I was not being paid to make the call" to the planning director.
There are also aspects of Mr. Pataki's tenure as Mayor that seem to clash with positions he has taken as a candidate for governor.
For example, though he now calls for a reduced role for government, as Mayor he used his political contacts to win scarce Federal grants to subsidize private developers building homes for middle-class residents. The Pataki administration was able to get these grants with the aid of Republican lawmakers like Representative Hamilton Fish and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Mr. Pataki's main supporter in this year's race for governor.
City officials said the construction begun under Mr. Pataki increased the city's total assessed value of real estate 11 percent from 1981 to 1993, while that of other Westchester County cities like Mount Vernon and Yonkers were declining. As in most places, that development rode the economic tides. Developers invested in flush times, but in the recession of the late 1980's some went bust and had to sell.
In at least three instances, developers failed to repay their debts to the city. While the city lost out, Mr. Pataki, after he left the Mayor's office, benefited from two of those same developers. From one, he earned a $40,000 broker's fee, and from another he received a $60,000 personal loan to help plan the development of his family farm.
His campaigns also benefited. For example, over a 10-year period, four developers who worked with Mr. Pataki when he was Mayor and their associates contributed at least $22,000 to his legislative and gubernatorial races.
As important as Mr. Pataki's role was in the boom of the early 1980's, parts of the boom were not his inspiration. A turning point for Peekskill was the opening of a plant that converted Westchester County's garbage to energy. Mr. Pataki was there at the ribbon cutting, but the deal for the plant, which brought Peekskill and its schools an extra $2.9 million in tax revenue annually was cemented by the previous Democratic Mayor and the previous County Executive.
"I'm the one who did that," said Alfred B. DelBello, the former County Executive, who said he completed the deal with Mr. Pataki's predecessor, Fred J. Bianco.
 
From Slump to Boom
A Forceful Role In City's Rebound
 In the late 1970's, Peekskill was on a prolonged downhill slide. Malls in surrounding towns had sapped life from the downtown, creating a bleak landscape of boarded-up shops. The city's largest employer, Standard Brands, the manufacturer of Fleishmann's yeast and whisky, had closed, resulting in a loss of more than 1,000 jobs. Just weeks before Mr. Pataki was inaugurated as Mayor in 1981, the City Council raised taxes 21 percent to pay police officers and firefighters.
Mr. Pataki recalls that one developer told him: "Peekskill isn't dying. Peekskill is dead."
Mr. Pataki, educated at Yale and Columbia, had returned to his native city in the 1970's and become the local Republican chairman, spearheading a return of Republican power after six years of City Council control by Democrats.
"Look at our city," Mr. Pataki said at the time. "Look at the town we grew up in. Nobody has the same feeling about our city anymore."
To enthusiastic supporters like Robert Flower, a former Republican Councilman, Mr. Pataki "changed the attitude of most of the active people in the community from an attitude of 'things are bad and we can 't do anything about it' to an attitude that 'yes, something can be done.' "
Although the mayoralty was not a full-time job -- daily operations are run by the city manager -- Mr. Pataki was a forceful presence. He viewed Peekskill as overburdened by poor people and greatly in need of middle-class development.
"We were looking to change the demographics of the community," said Mr. Seymour, the city manager.
Mr. Pataki saw fresh opportunities in Peekskill's four moribund church-owned institutions that sat on large tracts of land and paid no taxes. He remembers "talking to almost every builder I could find active in Westchester" and aggressively seeking Federal aid.
In 1982, when St. Peter's, an Episcopal preparatory school, was put up for auction, Mr. Pataki devised financial incentives that allowed a private developer from Long Island to outbid two religious groups that would not have paid as much in taxes.
Mr. Pataki also helped a seasoned Westchester builder, Victor Weingarten, convert Villa Loretto, a defunct Roman Catholic home for delinquent girls, into apartments and develop the surrounding land. Mr. Pataki persuaded Peekskill's school board to sell the developer land he needed for a low price. Then his administration lobbied Mr. D'Amato and other Federal officials for hefty renovation grants.
Under Federal guidelines, projects in Peekskill were restricted from receiving more than $445,000 in renovation grants. But after city leaders lobbied Mr. D'Amato and local members of Congress, Housing and Urban Development officials gave Mr. Weingarten a $3 million loan -- nearly seven times the limit and the largest such loan ever given in the Northeast.
Adam Glantz, a regional H.U.D. spokesman, said using the money for a middle-income project did not violate department regulations because Peekskill was eligible as one of the poorest municipalities in Westchester. Hard lobbying also helped.
"I'd fly to Washington once a month," Mr. Seymour said. "I'd go see the Congressman and the Senator. That's where the money was coming from."
 
Real-Estate Deals
Making Money On Sale Closings
 Mr. Weingarten eventually defaulted on his project's mortgage after completing 175 condominiums -- but not before Mr. Pataki benefited financially.
After resigning as Mayor in December 1984, Mr. Pataki opened a satellite Peekskill office of Plunkett & Jaffe, a Manhattan and White Plains law firm where he had worked since the mid-1970's. On Peekskill's ragged Main Street, Mr. Pataki and his brother Louis handled mostly real estate and wills. Michael C. Finnegan, who is Mr. Pataki's Senate and campaign aide, worked as a paralegal.
"It was a small-town practice," said William F. Plunkett, the firm's founding partner. "All of the time he had one foot in government."
Louis Pataki said the lawyers wanted to build a dominant practice in the Hudson Valley, but "it blew up in our face." Mr. Plunkett said George Pataki never earned more than $30,000 a year and his brother more than $45,000.
Handling real-estate closings -- transfers of property -- became a staple of the office's business.
Mr. Weingarten said he used the law firm as "a matter of economics." The firm's price of $350 a closing, Mr. Weingarten said, was one that even his son-in-law, who usually did his closings, could not beat.
One of the Northeast's largest home builders also came to Peekskill and used the Pataki firm. The company, K. Hovnanian, built 340 condominiums in two spreads known as Society Hill and Mr. Pataki's firm handled those closings as well as others for the developer in two other counties.
Mr. Plunkett said he saw nothing wrong with Mr. Pataki's representing developers he had dealt with as Mayor. "If I'm a developer, I want to make sure I have someone who knows what he is doing," Mr. Plunkett said.
Peekskill's laws only restrict former city officials from appearing before city agencies on behalf of clients they dealt with while in office, said William J. Florence Jr., Peekskill's Corporation Counsel.
New York City's code is stricter. Mark Davies, executive director of the Conflicts of Interest Board, said former city officials were not only permanently barred from appearing before the city on any matter they dealt with while in office but were also barred from receiving any money stemming from those matters. However, the issue of receiving payments for property closings is a "murky" one, he said.
Still, Mr. Pataki said that by 1989, as an Assemblyman he was concerned that political foes would criticize his association with Plunkett & Jaffe, not because of his work for developers but because lawyers in the firm's other branches were representing state agencies.
"People could take political potshots at me," Mr. Pataki said. "You just never know."
For that reason, Mr. Pataki said, he closed the Plunkett & Jaffe office in Peekskill and began practicing on his own down the street.
But William Florence interprets the closing of the firm's office in basic economic terms. "When the boom was over, they closed the door and went home," he said.
 
Turning a Profit
From Defaults To Law Fees
 In two instances, Mr. Pataki personally profited from arrangements with developers who defaulted on grants from Peekskill.
As Mayor, Mr. Pataki helped a group of New York City investors win a $815,000 Federal loan to convert a defunct Episcopal school for girls into an apartment house known as Chateau Rive.
After most of the 56 apartments were completed in 1986, the investors, including D. Kenneth Patton, a former New York City economic development administrator, declared bankruptcy. The city never recouped $720,000 of the Federal grant.
Still, Mr. Pataki benefited. In 1989, he arranged a sale of part of the property and was paid a $40,000 broker's fee by the same Patton group he had recruited as Mayor.
Another developer who defaulted on a city loan was Paul Guillaro. His company, Unicorn Industries, failed to repay $85,000 of a $100,000 loan issued in 1988 to help construct a four-story downtown office building, which is still only half-occupied.
Unicorn was active in Peekskill while Mr. Pataki was Mayor, though Mr. Pataki does not recall if he met Mr. Guillaro then. Nevertheless, their relationship turned personal in 1991, when the developer gave him a $60,000 loan to finance engineering plans for subdividing the 17-acre Pataki family farm in Peekskill. Then this spring Mr. Pataki and his brother sold Mr. Guillaro part of the farmland for $75,000.
But perhaps Mr. Pataki's most lucrative real-estate transactions took place away from Peekskill. The sale of investment properties in Putnam and Washington Counties in 1986 allowed him to buy a graceful old Victorian mansion in the upscale village of Garrison seven miles from Peekskill for a price of $700,000. In 1991, Mr. Pataki moved his family into the Garrison house, leaving behind the city he set out to rescue a decade earlier.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George E. Pataki posed in front of an Episcopal preparatory school, St. Mary's Girls' School, in 1983 while he was serving as the Mayor of Peekskill. The school, along with St. Peter's, an Episcopal preparatory school for boys, was sold to developers for conversion into apartments. (Star Black); After St. Mary's School was turned into apartments, the development became Chateau Rive. Mr. Pataki had helped investors win a loan. (Lenore Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; PEEKSKILL (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS REAL ESTATE (91%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); INTERVIEWS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; PURDY, MATTHEW; PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



660 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Decline Ahead of G.D.P. Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Government securities were lower in choppy trading yesterday, despite an auction of five-year notes and a durable-goods report that were both slightly better than expected.
Both the economic report and the auction sparked small rallies that were soon cut short by investors waiting to unload securities ahead of the report on third-quarter gross domestic product on Friday. Market investors were selling on every uptick of 5/32 or 6/32 in bond prices, traders said. 
 Investors are concerned that the G.D.P. report will indicate that the economy is heating up and that inflation is ready to accelerate, sending prices lower.
The price of the 30-year bond ended down 6/32, to 93 23/32, for a yield of 8.06 percent, up from 8.04 percent on Tuesday. Shorter bill rates were lower, suggesting that investors were moving off the long end of the market to the relative safety of the short end.
Prices of Government securities rose briefly in early trading after the Commerce Department said orders for durable goods -- big-ticket items ranging from television sets to jets -- rose one-tenth of 1 percent in September. Excluding transportation, orders fell by six-tenths of 1 percent, slightly weaker than expected, while shipments fell seven-tenths of 1 percent, as expected.
But analysts said the report did not detract from the overall strong economic picture, given a big jump in durable goods in August.
"In fact, the details of the latest report indicate continued growth in manufacturing, with little evidence of overheating," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Investors later turned their focus to the five-year note auction. The when-issued yield for the five-year was at 7.52 percent in early trading before the auction, down from 7.57 percent the day before. Many traders began to think the auction would attract buyers at 7.52 percent, and were satisfied when the notes were awarded at a high yield of 7.55 percent. Analysts speculated that in many cases, fund managers did not want to stretch maturities in portfolios to five years, while dealers would probably only buy to cover short positions.
Although not a big factor in the price slump yesterday, commodity prices did exert some downward pressure, as gasoline continued to lead the Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities higher, up 1.05 point, to 233.30.
Tighter supplies on the East Coast after the pipeline rupture in Texas have raised prices in the energy sector.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 7.55%
Low Yield . . . 7.45%
Median Yield . . . 7.53%
Accepted at low price . . . 95%
Total applied for . . . $33,059,123
Accepted . . . $11,018,571
Noncompetitive . . . $692,000
Interest set at . . . 7.50%
 
The five-year notes mature on Oct. 31, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "5-Year Treasury Notes" tracks average yields at monthly auctions, in percent, since 1993. (Source: Treasury Department); "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; AUCTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); SHIPMENTS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



661 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Ford Profits Up Sharply In Quarter

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 26

 BODY:
With car and truck sales climbing in the United States and manufacturing costs falling in Europe, the Ford Motor Company today reported that its earnings had more than doubled to $1.12 billion for the three months ending Sept. 30.
Vigorous demand for products like the Windstar mini-van, Mustang sports coupe and four-wheel-drive Explorers enabled Ford to cut marketing costs in the quarter, fattening its profit on every vehicle sold. 
 The record profit came to $1.04 a share, compared with 40 cents, or $463 million in total, a year ago. Ford's revenues rose 25 percent, to $30.6 billion.
Ford, the nation's No. 2 auto maker, was the last of the Big Three to report its third-quarter results. Like the Chrysler Corporation's record quarterly earnings of $651 million, Ford's performance stood in sharp contrast to the disappointing results reported last week by the General Motors Corporation, which earned more than $500 million dollars over all but lost $328 million in its core North American auto operations.
Ford expects the money to keep rolling in. Though the company anticipates another increase in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve, Ford said today it sees no signs the United States auto market is weakening.
"Sales appear to be continuing to go up, and we believe we still have a number of good years to go," said David N. McCammon, Ford's treasurer and vice president for finance.
Ford's results exceeded most analysts' expectations. In heavy trading, the company's stock closed at $29.25 on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, up 37.5 cents a share.
David M. Garrity, auto analyst with Smith Barney in New York, said Ford's profit margins in North America were almost twice what he had anticipated. "The company clearly shows a demonstrated ability to increase production year over year at a pretty rapid clip," Mr. Garrity said, "but at the same time to introduce a new model without substantial impact to profits, unlike G.M." Analysts have criticized G.M. for taking too long to introduce new models, losing potential sales.
The third quarter tends to be the weakest for the auto makers because of plant shutdowns for vacations. But Ford's sales to dealers in North America were up 17.5 percent in the quarter over last year, to 1.08 million vehicles.
"Volume is the big driver," Mr. McCammon said of Ford's profits. Ford received a boost from its long-troubled European operations. Excluding Jaguar, the British luxury car maker that Ford bought in 1989, the European operations made $25 million, reversing a loss of $217 million last year. While sales are rising in Europe, industry analysts said that Ford appeared to benefit mostly from aggressive cost-cutting.
Ford said Jaguar is on the verge of profitability, but the unit continued to drag in the quarter, losing $53 million, compared with a loss of $108 million last year. Last year's loss was exacerbated by a $65 million restructuring charge.
Ford's financial services operations contributed almost as much to the quarter's bottom line as its automotive units. The financial group earned $523 million, up 33.8 percent from last year.
Unlike those of G.M., Ford's domestic operations remain far more profitable than its overseas units. Ford's net profit margin on auto sales was 2.4 percent -- 3.3 percent in the United States and four-tenths of 1 percent abroad.
In general, though, Ford's plants worked at 109 percent of straight-time capacity, meaning they were running on overtime, Mr. McCammon said. In the fourth quarter, Ford expects its plants to run at 111 percent.
In the United States in the quarter, Ford earned an average of $575 on every vehicle it sold compared to $390 a year ago.
Chrysler made an average of $1,000 on vehicles it sold worldwide in the quarter, not including earnings from its finance arm. Chrysler does not determine the per-unit profit for just the United States, a spokeswoman said.
Ford's increased profit in part reflects the reduction of rebates and other sales incentives. Ford's average incentive for the quarter was $725, down from $865 a year ago. Because Ford was clearing out its 1994 models in the quarter, incentives rose from the second quarter, when they averaged $550 a vehicle.
Ford lost a percentage point of car market share because of new-model changeover, but its share of the light- truck market in the United States held during the quarter, at 31.2 percent. In the competitive mini-van market, Ford gained almost 8 points of share, to 32.9 percent, because of its new Windstar. Chrysler, the segment leader, had 38.8 percent, down 3.5 percentage points.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Ford Motor Co. (F,N)" 

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	30,622,000,000	24,498,000,000	+25	Net inc.	1,124,000,000	c463,000,000	+143	Sh. earn	1.04	.40		Sh. out.	1,014,000,000	988,000,000		9m rev.	94,796,000,000	80,680,000,000	+17.5	Net inc.	b3,739,000,000	1,810,000,000	+106	Sh. earn	3.50	1.62		Sh. out.	1,006,000,000	984,000,000	 	
 
b-Included a loss of $440 million related to the disposition of First Nationwide Financial Corp.
c-Included a one-time gain of $140 million because of new United States tax legislation.
Share earnings and shares outstanding have been adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend, effective June 6, 1994.
Revenue represented worldwide sales and revenues.

Yesterday's closing price:
 
$29.25
Up 37.5 (pg. D21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); COMPANY REPORTS; SALES; REBATES; INDUSTRY PROFILES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); MINIVANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES DAVID N MCCAMMON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



662 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Mary Roebling, 89, First Woman To Head Major U.S. Bank, Dies

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Mary G. Roebling, former chairwoman of the National State Bank, one of New Jersey's largest independent banks, and a former governor of the American Stock Exchange, died on Tuesday at her home in Trenton. She was 89.
The cause was renal failure, The Associated Press reported. 
 Mrs. Roebling retired in 1984 as chairman of the National State Bank in Elizabeth, N.J., which then had assets of $1.2 billion.
Earlier, she became the first woman to head a major American bank, the Trenton Trust Company. In 1937, at the age of 30, she was named its president. It grew substantially and she was its president or chairman or both until 1972, when Trenton Trust was acquired by National State. She was then elected chairman of the combined institutions.
Mrs. Roebling was also a founder, in 1978, of the Women's Bank N.A. of Denver, the first nationally chartered bank founded by women. She went on to serve as its chairman until 1983. In addition, she was the American Stock Exchange's first woman governor, from 1958 to 1962.
Mrs. Roebling also served as a director of numerous other corporations over the years, was active in many civic, charitable and educational organizations, and was a tireless advocate of a greater role for women in the country's economic affairs.
In a speech in 1965, Mrs. Roebling said: "As a woman who for years has competed in the business world, I would be the first to agree that the American woman has almost unbelievable economic power, but American women, like women of all civilized nations, do not use the influence their economic power gives them."
Mrs. Roebling's own economic power came initially through inheritance, but she increased it vastly once it fell into her hands. She was bequeathed a large block of Trenton Trust stock by her millionaire second husband, Siegfried Roebling, whose family had long been prominent in engineering and cable manufacturing. He was a great-grandson of John A. Roebling, who designed the Brooklyn Bridge, and a grandson of Col. Washington A. Roebling, who completed its construction.
Siegfried Roebling died in 1936, of a heart attack. Mrs. Roebling's father and father-in-law then urged her to try her hand at running the bank. She had preparation for the job: she had worked for a Philadelphia investment house while taking business courses at night and, the two men told her, she had another important qualification, common sense.
The rest was banking history. She took her husband's seat on the bank's board and, on Jan. 21, 1937, was elected president.
"Mary G. Roebling didn't wait for women's lib," Forbes magazine once wrote, "she was ahead of it, way ahead."
By 1970, Mrs. Roebling estimated that 300 other American women had become presidents or chairwomen of banks. But in 1978, when she became chairwoman of the Women's Bank, she argued that there still was a place in the business world for banks that were operated specifically for female customers.
"Women's banks can be better listeners for women and give them more time, advice and direction than an ordinary bank would give," she told an interviewer. "It's a psychological thing, really."
She continued to be active in male-dominated spheres, however: in 1978, after having served as a civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army in several administrations, she became the founding president of the newly formed Army War College Foundation. It was set up to support the college's fund-raising and other activities.
She was born Mary Gindhart in 1907 in West Collingswood, N.J., the daughter of Isaac D. Gindhart Jr., a telephone company executive, and Mary Simon Gindhart, a music teacher. She went to public schools in Haddonfield and Moorestown, N.J., and earned pocket money picking strawberries for a penny a box.
While still a teen-ager, she married a musician, Arthur Herbert, but he died three years later, leaving her with a daughter to support. She went to work in Philadelphia and took evening courses in merchandising and business administration at the University of Pennsylvania.
She left her job when she married Mr. Roebling, becoming a housewife again until his death.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations. She was awarded numerous honorary degrees and other honors.
She is survived by a daughter, Betty Hobin of Palm Beach, Fla., and Hopewell Township, N.J.; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and a sister, Margaret G. Finley of Haddonfield, N.J. A son, Paul Roebling, died in July.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary G. Roebling. (Bachrach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: SBID (LSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL STATE BANK (93%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); WOMEN (90%); DEATHS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: ROEBLING, MARY G; PACE, ERIC MARY G ROEBLING (96%); TRENTON TRUST (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



663 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Minority Home Loans Rise, But Many Are Still Rejected

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Financial institutions in New York City and its suburbs sharply increased their home mortgage lending to minorities last year but continued to reject black applicants more often than whites, according to figures released today by a group of Federal regulators.
The group, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, found that the number of home mortgages issued to blacks in the New York area soared 44.8 percent last year over 1992 and the number issued to whites climbed 19.9 percent. Loans to Asian-Americans and Hispanics increased at roughly the same rate as loans to whites. 
 Banks, savings institutions, credit unions and mortgage companies, however, still denied mortgage applications from blacks in the metropolitan area twice as often as they rejected whites.
The gap between whites and blacks narrowed slightly from 1992; 11.9 percent of mortgage applications from whites were turned down, while 20.5 percent of applications from blacks were rejected, according to the council.
In New York, the rate at which blacks applied for home loans rose twice as fast as for whites.
The New York metropolitan area's trends closely followed the pattern of mortgage lending across the country, for which the council published preliminary figures in late July and nearly identical final figures today. Nationally, mortgage lending rose 35.8 percent for blacks and 17.5 percent for whites.
The sharp rise in minority borrowing was a result of new community outreach programs at banks and last year's low interest rates, which made it much easier for less affluent blacks to buy a new home.
"People who weren't able to afford a home are now buying them," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board.
But mortgage interest rates have risen by about two percentage points this year, in part because the Fed has raised short-term interest rates five times since February.
Robert L. Gnaizda, the general counsel of the Greenlining Coalition, a group of civil rights and minority business organizations based in San Francisco, said the mortgage lending figures displayed a mixed picture.
"Most of the major banks and S.& L.'s are improving in their outreach to minorities, but have a long way to go," Mr. Gnaizda said. And some other institutions, he added, "will not go far until they bear the brunt of more Justice Department suits."
The department filed and simultaneously settled an antidiscrimination suit in late August against Chevy Chase Federal Savings Bank, based in Chevy Chase, Md., which agreed to step up its lending and establish new branches in predominantly black neighborhoods in Washington.
The council's member agencies are the Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration and two Treasury Department agencies, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (80%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL CHEVY CHASE FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (80%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BLACKS (IN US); MORTGAGES; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; ASIAN-AMERICANS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (96%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CITIES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CREDIT UNIONS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



664 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
BOEING CO. (BA,N)

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The Boeing Company said yesterday that its third-quarter net income fell 2.1 percent from last year. Still, the results exceeded analysts' expectations despite recent delays in aircraft orders from major carriers.
Boeing earned $185 million, or 54 cents a share, compared with $189 million, or 56 cents a share, a year earlier. Wall Street had expected earnings of about 40 cents a share. Sales fell slightly to $5.1 billion. 
 The Seattle-based company -- the nation's biggest exporter and the world's biggest aircraft maker -- said sales and earnings continued to drop for the most part because of sales of fewer commercial planes, and to a lesser degree, because of higher debt expenses and lower investment income.
The decline was partly offset by Boeing's ability to lower its Federal income tax rate to 24.7 percent in the first nine months of the year from 31.6 percent in 1993. The third-quarter tax rate was even lower, 21 percent, as the company included the year-to-date effect of tax benefits from research and development.
Boeing's chairman and chief executive, Frank A. Shrontz, said sales for all of 1994 were expected to be about $21.5 billion, 15 percent below last year's, and that 1995 sales were likely to be at "relatively low levels." (Bloomberg Busines News)

GRAPHIC: Table: "BOEING CO. (BA,N)" 

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	5,063,000,000	5,153,000,000	-1.7	Net inc.	185,000,000	189,000,000	-2.1	Sh. earn	.54	.56		Sh. out.	340,700,000	339,800,000		9m sls.	16,804,000,000	19,782,000,000	-15.1	Net inc.	699,000,000	940,000,000	-25.6	Sh. earn	2.05	2.77		Sh. out.	340,500,000	339,600,000	 	
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$43.25
Up 12.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: FRANK A SHRONTZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



665 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A deficit plan becomes the Administration's latest scandal.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
ONCE again, we learn, the Clinton Administration is racked by scandal. More haircuts on the runway? More sports tickets for high officials, courtesy of the Tyson chicken barons? No: the Rivlin memo.
In a confidential note to President Clinton dated Oct. 3, Alice M. Rivlin, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, provided specific options for coping with the Federal budget deficit. Not surprisingly, they discussed what Ms. Rivlin called "big choices" about raising taxes and slashing spending. 
 Congressional Republicans, who purloined the memo and faxed it to anybody who asked, were shocked to discover that the White House would actually consider taking caviar from the mouths of rich pensioners. Taking no chances, William Kristol, head of the Project for the Republican Future -- affectionately dubbed "Dan Quayle's brain" in an earlier incarnation as the former vice president's chief of staff -- called the options "Yikes!" and "Yikes again!," lest anyone miss their nefarious import.
But not everyone is upset. Paul E. Tsongas, the former Senator from Massachusetts and Democratic Presidential candidate who is now co-chairman of the Concord Coalition, denounced the "unmitigated cynicism of a partisan opposition that won't talk about taxes or entitlement reform." And Robert D. Reischauer, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, added that the "O.M.B. would be derelict in its duty if it did not lay out the options for reducing the deficit."
The Contract with America, the Republican's pre-election wish list constructed by the House minority whip Newt Gingrich, was seized by the White House earlier this month as evidence that Republicans still believed in the free lunch. "They can run, but they can't hide the fact that they have to pay for a trillion dollars in promises," said Gene Sperling, a senior aide to the President. "They don't have a clue how to do it without deep Social Security or Medicare cuts."
But what does the Budget Director's memo really say? "Our attacks on the Republicans for evasiveness about how they would pay for their 'contract' have been effective," Ms. Rivlin wrote, "but they make it imperative that we continue our established policy of explicit and paid-for proposals."
It seems the budget deficit, which fell after the economy started growing in 1992 and the Clinton Administration rammed through a deficit reduction package in 1993, is set to rise again in the near future. White House numbers show it creeping back up, starting next year, and then taking off as Medicaid and Medicare outpace revenues. When the baby boomers retire, Social Security will also slip into the red. That will lead to an estimated $4.1 trillion budget deficit in 2030, if nothing is done to reverse the trend.
And what could be done? Ms. Rivlin offered an "illustrative range of packages," which run from eschewing new programs that would add to the deficit to an overhaul of the tax system to phasing out the most generous Social Security benefits. They also included an all-out attempt to balance the budget by 2000.
When the memo was leaked by a person Mr. Kristol referred to as "a public-spirited senior Administration official," President Clinton moved quickly to contain the political damage. "I do not support cuts in Social Security," he told reporters, "and I believe any savings we achieve in the Medicare program should be used in health care."
That, however, does not leave many options for coping with deficits. Closing what used to be called tax loopholes -- from mortgage deductions on second homes to the failure to tax capital gains at death -- is a possibility. But there are good political reasons those loopholes survived the last rounds of tax reform. And besides, the Administration seems inclined to ease the sting of any tax increase by spending the proceeds on social investment or a middle-class tax cut.
It is also conceivable that the deficit will fade as a policy concern. From economists' perspective, the real issue is the overall level of savings in the economy, and increases in private savings could more than offset increases in public deficits. But don't count on it: There is not a hint that private saving rates are on the rise.
Arguably, the Republicans won the give and take. In this political climate, pretending that deficits will vanish into a Reaganite ether presumably beats sacrifice of any sort.
But deficit reduction is a game in which those most affected by the outcome -- the young -- have no direct say. And Mr. Tsongas, for one, is angry that the Republicans passed up "a golden opportunity" to become the party of fiscal prudence and that President Clinton is "willing to do what is necessary" to hold the allegiance of myopic voters.
Mr. Tsongas hopes you are, too.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;CONCORD COALITION OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (77%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONCORD COALITION OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (77%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICAID; MEDICARE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); TRENDS (60%); MEDICAID (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; RIVLIN, ALICE M (DIR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TSONGAS, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



666 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Steadies as France Makes an Offer of Support

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar steadied yesterday after the French Economics Minister said France was ready to help the United States support the dollar if necessary.
The comments by Economics Minister Edmond Alphandery countered speculation that European central banks are reluctant to spend more money supporting the dollar after a costly, failed attempt in June. 
 Asked at a news conference whether France was willing to participate in concerted action to support the dollar, Mr. Alphandery said: "Yes, we are ready to do it. The dollar needs to be strong."
After Mr. Alphandery's remarks and statements from United States Treasury officials last week that the United States would buy dollars if necessary, "people are nervous about intervention," said Amy Smith, senior currency strategist at Idea, a consulting firm.
Intervention means the large-scale selling or buying of a currency in return for foreign currencies. In the United States, the decision to intervene is made by the Treasury Department, in consultation with the Federal Reserve. Once the Treasury authorizes an intervention, traders at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York call up the larger banks that deal in currencies and place orders to buy or sell dollars.
Traders said that were it not for speculation that the United States and its allies would mount a dollar-buying spree, the dollar would probably plunge. The last such invervention was on June 24, when the Fed purchased $1.56 billion, a one-day record. Traders and analysts branded the action a failure because the dollar ended the day lower.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.4909 marks, from 1.4970 marks on Tuesday. The dollar was unchanged against the yen, at 96.82 yen. The British pound rose to $1.6382 from $1.6357 on Tuesday. The dollar fell to 1.2429 Swiss francs from 1.2495 francs and to 5.1045 French francs from 5.1225 francs.
Despite the speculation about intervention, "people still want to sell dollars," said Koichi Takenaka, assistant vice president at Industrial Bank of Japan. "This is no reason to buy the dollar aggressively."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (52%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); BRITISH POUND (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: EDMOND ALPHANDERY (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



667 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Furniture Circus Comes To Town

BYLINE: By MITCHELL OWENS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HIGH POINT, N.C., Oct. 21

 BODY:
Mario Buatta, the New York society decorator, strolled from one cocktail party to the next with a gag toupee on his head. In front of the La-Z-Boy showroom on Main Street, a crowd of button-down business people waiting for the light watched a bevy of suspiciously well-endowed young women promote the Tiki Club topless bar. And across town, in the parking lot of the National Guard Armory, a 5,000-pound African elephant named Laura gently lowered her wrinkled gray flanks onto a specially built daybed to test the strength of a new laminated lumber product made from aspen saplings.
It's business as usual at the International Home Furnishings Market, equal parts theme park, trade show and Robert Altman film. 
 Twice a year, for nine days in April and nine in October, this sleepy city of 70,000 and its equally somnolent sister, Thomasville, are transformed into Bible-Belt Brigadoons as visitors roam the streets from individual showrooms to about a dozen multistory exhibition centers.
Hotels are booked months in advance, restaurants are packed, there isn't a rental car to be found in 50 miles and traffic reports on the local morning news programs warn that parking spaces begin disappearing at dawn. Worse yet, said Evan Cole, the president of ABC Carpet and Home in New York, the Krispy Kreme doughnut shop (home of what he calls "a little sugar-coated confection that's the best thing in High Point") is so crowded that it puts Manhattan's lunch-hour deli snarls to shame.
Manufacturers, 2,100 of them, gather to show off their latest furniture and accessories, and 69,000 buyers, designers and journalists come from around the world to inspect and order merchandise that will arrive in stores and showrooms roughly from January to April. The show, which is for to the trade only, opened on Oct. 20 and closes tomorrow at 1 P.M.
The American furniture industry, with $17.98 billion in sales in 1993, seems to be buoyant, encouraged by factors ranging from an increasingly healthy national economy to the dawning recognition by mid-range manufacturers that style-conscious consumers live in all parts of the nation, not just New York City and Los Angeles. Analysts at the American Furniture Manufacturers Association, which is based here, predict that by the end of 1994, business will reach $19.83 billion, an increase of more than 10 percent over last year's.
As the market opened, it was apparent that the showrooms of High Point and environs, where more than 60 percent of all the wooden furniture in the United States is made, were rolling out some of their freshest, most appealing wares in years.
"It's like they're taking a cue from the fashion world," said Nan Riggs, the owner of Riggs & Company, decorators in Richmond. "Home furnishings used to be all about a look you had to buy, top to bottom. This time, it feels like they're presenting a real-live wardrobe, great-looking things you can use and move around to really create your own style."
Companies famous for the home-suite-home look of matching furniture shook out the starch. Baker's dependable line of stiff-upper-lip Williamsburg standards got a Club Med make-over: pickled-white wooden pieces upholstered in grass cloth, in leaf-green linen or in raw silk that has the fluffy texture of chenille. The company's room settings, known for being as sumptuous and unreal as a "Masterpiece Theater" set, were invigorated with sharp blasts of color and cinematic details: white tulips bursting from old crystal decanters, and side chairs dressed in rich murky satins of cobalt, grape, bronzy brown and charcoal that recalled the outre glamour of the 1950's, from Venetian glass to Balenciaga ball gowns.
Even when the designs weren't new, the presentations were often bold enough to revitalize furniture lines that had begun to seem passe. Staid 18th-century neo-classicism remained intact at Henredon, for example, but the innovative way the showroom was styled caused visitors to reconsider how compatible formality and reality could be: in one display, plastic children's toys were tossed amid the cabriole legs.
"It was a really surprising way to present a traditional line," said Steve Carlino, the fashion director of the Home Store at Macy's in New York. "It wasn't a museum, it was like real life." Most surprising to him, however, was the market's general repudiation of the 1980's stratospheric price tags. There may not have been any bargain-basement prices at this fall's market, but major manufacturers clearly tried to keep prices down and style high.
"That was what really struck me, as a buyer," Mr. Carlino said. "You don't have to be a genius to design a $4,000 sofa, but you have to be really talented to design what people keep asking for: a beautiful sofa that retails for less than $899."
Situated in a former children's game factory, the new 40,000-square-foot Mitchell Gold showroom, one of the biggest in town, was full of upholstered sofas and chairs that taught old silhouettes new tricks. A proper camelback sofa wore a rumpled leather slipcover. Another sofa was swathed in what Bob Williams, the company's head designer, called "pajamas," a loosely woven, heavy cotton slipcover in material that looked like thermal underwear. There was also the Jasmine sofa, a breezy, boxy salute to a classic design by the 1960's style master Billy Baldwin. In wicker-print cotton and creamy white denim (Baldwin's original featured Madagascar grasscloth and white canvas), the sofa will cost less than $900.
"The average consumer doesn't want to be cool and avant-garde, and a lot of designers forgot about that in the 1970's and 1980's," said Mr. Gold, whose products are staples at chain stores like Crate and Barrel, Pottery Barn and Jennifer Leather. "Most people want something new but familiar, something that refines their eye and gives them an air of fashion, but without throwing them up against a wall to prove the point."
Affordable glamour was also the order of the day at Directional, which was known a decade ago for its costly, momentarily fashionable modernism.
The company's new president, Robert Fernbacher, hired Larry Laslo, the designer responsible for the Zen Deco interiors of the Takashimaya department store on Fifth Avenue, to create a swank line of furniture at low, low prices.
Mr. Laslo apparently succeeded.
"Where else could you get something that great-looking for $900?" said Michael Formica, a New York interior designer. He was referring to the wholesale price of Mr. Laslo's romantic Casino sofa ($1,795 retail), a deep-dish, button-tufted extravaganza that looked like a collaboration between Stanford White and the 1930's decorator Syrie Maugham.
The 60-plus-piece Laslo Part 1 collection is also replete with oddly engaging accents. "They wanted me and all my jewels," said Mr. Laslo, known for elaborate drawer pulls and other Cartier-like embellishments. In practice, many of the things presented at High Point are trial balloons: buyers' reactions can influence the final shape of the product lines, and the rule of thumb is that approximately 80 percent of the items at the show go into production.
Price was a paramount concern at Universal Furniture Industries, too, whose showroom had been painted in rich, crayon-box colors for the debut of Alexander Julian Home Colours, a 35-piece collection of home furnishings created by the Coty Award-winning mens-wear designer. The least expensive piece is a wood occasional table ($250); the most expensive is a 1940's-style sofa covered in worn, bomber-jacket-style leather ($2,000).
The collection is not only inexpensive, but also autobiographical. Many of the woven jewel-toned fabrics used on the sofas and chairs (several of which are based on 1940's flea-market originals at his Connecticut home) copy textiles that Mr. Julian designs for his mens-wear line.
Its signature piece is the Haberdasher's Cabinet, a glass-fronted pine storage unit with shallow drawers for sweaters and socks ($1,299), a homage to the display furniture in a clothing store that Mr. Julian's father operated in Chapel Hill, N.C.
Jill Chapman, the buyer for Portico Home in New York, raved about the J & R Collection, a Chicago company that was making its High Point debut. "It was the best new line, the best new booth, no question," she said. Known for oversize display furniture and accessories used at Nordstrom's, Federated and other department stores, John Houck and Roger Plaster, the company's owners, scaled everything down for residential use. The look? Jean-Michel Frank meets Elsa Peretti, as in a side table with comma-shaped brushed aluminum legs ($650) and a sleek undulating metal Marco table lamp ($275).
At La-Z-Boy, however, home of the big, bodacious, all-American recliner, some buyers were grumbling. The company's statement for fall was a new small recliner collection, called Small Comforts and designed for people under five feet, five inches tall.
"I can't sell this stuff," complained one man who didn't want his name used because he is a La-Z-Boy dealer. "It's a joke, like kid's furniture. How could they make something so stupid?" But Otto Smoktonowicz, a La-Z-Boy spokesman, said he hoped the line would be popular with women and with customers in Asia, where people tend to be smaller than in the United States and where apartments almost always are.
For Gayle Christ, however, Small Comforts was a revelation.
"The theme from 'The Wizard of Oz' does keep going through my head," said Mrs. Christ, a co-owner of Christ Furniture in Eagle Grove, Iowa, "but it is going to open up a lot of options for us."
She added: "When a man sits in a recliner and his feet don't touch the floor, it's humiliating. It's like he thinks he's not a real man."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura, an African elephant, tests the strength of a daybed as W.C. Walters, her owner, watches with a basket of chopped-carrot treats.; Milling Road's ram's-horn settee ($2,120) and iron-frame etageres ($400).; Larry Laslo's Retro wing chair for Directional ($1,250).; Leslie Harrison wore a modified toga to advertise the Italian Design Pavilion.; The J & R Collection's aluminum-and-glass Bastille side table ($650). (pg. C1); Century's chair, of water hyacinths ($2,000).; Cherry desk by Amish Heritage ($8,643). (Century Furniture); Robert Abbey's 30's-style lamp ($170).; Larry Laslo's Bugs chair ($1,195). (Directional); Cabinet by Alexander Julian ($1,299).; Atlantis's tambour-front home office ($7,000). (Universal Furniture); The main floor of Market Square, an old Victorian factory building that is now home to hundreds of dealers in furniture, lamps and accessories for the home.; Alexander Julian -- wearing Colours and sitting in it, too.; Buyers testing the big chairs at La-Z-Boy.; "In New York, you need dual-function furniture," said Amy Coutros, folding Naos's Newton bookcase into a dining table ($3,300).; The High Point Jaycees' "chest of drawers" office building. (Photographs by Steve Matteson for The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (54%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ABC HOME FURNISHINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HIGH POINT (NC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; INTERNATIONAL HOME FURNISHINGS MARKET PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); WOOD FURNITURE MFG (88%); FURNITURE MFG (86%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); TRADE SHOWS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); RETAIL BAKERIES (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%); 

PERSON: OWENS, MITCHELL MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



668 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: GOING HOME WITH: Heather Whitestone;
Placing the Person Ahead of the Crown

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala.

 BODY:
AT the Summit Club, here in her hometown, Miss America has been on her feet for almost two hours, smiling, shaking hands and reading lips. Heather Whitestone, the first Miss America with a disability (she lost her hearing after a bout of Hemophilus influenza at the age of 18 months), could teach the ramshackle House of Windsor a thing or two about dignity and grace. But doesn't she ever get to sit down?
Apparently not. "They just cut that part of their brain out and don't think about it till they get home," purrs an official of the Miss Alabama Pageant. And she's one of the milder middle-aged belles running this show. Welcome home, Heather. 
 This mid-October weekend is the official homecoming of Alabama's newest star, still awash in her victory in Atlantic City last month. The state hadn't won the crown since 1951, so these are big doings. Among the events are a parade; a visit to Jacksonville State University, where Miss Whitestone, 21, is an accounting major; a trip to Hoover High School, her alma mater; Sunday services at her Baptist church, and a tribute by a local ballet company (Miss Whitestone's talent in the pageant was ballet, which she dances by feeling the vibrations of the music).
So far today, there have been some glitches. The limousine that was to drive Miss Whitestone and her entourage the whole block and a half from the Tutwiler Hotel to the Governor's reception at the Summit Club never turns up, so a red Chevy is commandeered instead. The police escort sounds its sirens, jumps the five cars waiting at the one red light and safely leads the car crammed with women into the garage.
Miss Whitestone emerges unruffled. In her red suit and rhinestone-crown pin, she is strikingly beautiful, with glossy brown hair pulled back to reveal the hearing aid behind her left ear (in which 5 percent hearing remains), perfect skin and a dancer's body. When she speaks, she is easy to understand. Asked about her pin, she starts to answer when another pageant official intercedes. "You have to see the Governor now," she snaps. "You don't talk now. The interview comes later."
Miss Whitestone looks wounded. "She only asked about the pin," she says pleadingly. The woman turns her back.
Upstairs, the receiving line has been set in a dimly lighted lobby where it is exceedingly difficult to read lips. Miss Whitestone peers intently at the mouths in front of her (she does not use an interpreter) until someone from the Governor's office tunes in and moves the group to a brighter room.
Among the guests today are members of the Economic Development Partnership of Alabama, which means, the pageant officials say, corporation presidents and their wives. Some of whom have Ivana Trump's hair.
Miss Whitestone gets a break from the receiving line in time for a presentation. The Governor, Jim Folsom, says: "This summer we had Forrest Gump all over the nation, then Miss Alabama became Miss America. You have represented our state so well. Everyone loves you." Especially since an advertisement in USA Today picturing Miss Whitestone's win generated more than 700 good-will calls to the Economic Development Partnership. "The connection is a tremendous positive for the state," says its president, Neal Wade. "She is a great ambassador."
Back at the Tutwiler, Miss Whitestone and her mother, Daphne Gray, who teaches seventh grade math, are staying in the Presidential Suite which, oddly again, has very little light.
Miss Whitestone seats herself at a round table in the living room next to a lamp. A large white box of leftover hors d'oeuvres grows cold nearby, but she doesn't eat. She has what is known in pageant jargon as a platform to discuss.
"When I first competed in Miss America three years ago, my message to schoolchildren was that anything is possible if you believe in yourself and are willing to work hard," she says. "But sometimes they would forget, they're so young. I realized I had to think of some way for them to remember. And with the help of my family and friends, came up with my Stars platform. A star has five points: to have a positive attitude; to believe in your dreams, especially education; to face your obstacles no matter how great; to work hard; to build a support team. It's to promote their positive self-esteem."
Has her physical beauty helped with her own? "I have seen a lot of young ladies who are beautiful but with a hard heart," she says. "Nobody wants to be around them. When your heart is beautiful, you become more beautiful, your smile becomes more beautiful." She answers without artifice, believing what she says because it is what her mother taught her. And what this mother says, goes.
"After the doctor told her I would not go past the third grade, my mother made the decision for me to speak, and she spent hours working with me on my speech and my schoolwork," Miss Whitestone says. "She never let me use my deafness as an excuse. We had a positive environment, where if you fail, just try again. She gave the same advice to my two older sisters, who both went to the Air Force Academy."
But her childhood could not have been devoid of playground cruelty. "Of course, it's natural to make fun of a hearing aid," she says evenly. "It was a box with a cord coming out of it. I was upset. But the teacher said, 'No, they just think it's a radio.' " She smiles graciously. "When you are so young, there is so much to learn."
Though her attitude is admirable, it is also, inevitably, sad. How quickly and eagerly she excuses other people's cruel behavior while demanding only perfection from herself. She spent six years learning to pronounce her last name alone.
"My mother fought all her life for me to achieve my dreams," she says. "They would tell my mother: 'Heather will never learn to speak. And she doesn't need to take ballet.' But my mother put me in dance class to help me with my speech. To learn to count to the rhythm of the music and for me to do the same with my voice when speaking." She demonstrates. "My mother went to the store," she says rhythmically, tapping the table on each emphasis. "But she didn't realize I'd fall in love with ballet."
"When I dance," she continues, "I feel like I'm in a safe world. I remember when I was little, the other children making fun of me, but when I danced I felt free. I was most joyful when I danced in the church and praised God with my dance. Everybody sang in the choir, and I wanted so badly to become part of the worship service."
The wish to be a part of the hearing world is an issue of debate among some deaf activists who are opposed to lip reading and speaking, and advocate the use of universal sign language only. "O.K.," Miss Whitestone says carefully. "Everybody has a different opinion how to communicate. I would encourage people who are deaf or hard of hearing to pursue a broad wedge of communication options. The one they choose should help them to build self-esteem and achieve their goals. And they should think twice before saying what is wrong. There is a freedom of speech in this country. They should do whatever is best for them.
"It is best for me to speak, but that's for me. It doesn't bother me to sign. It's a beautiful language which I didn't learn until I was a senior in high school. So it is a new language for me." She giggles. "I remember I gave testimony at the church once, and I meant to talk about being baptized, and I signed 'dead.' Oh, no!"
It's a relief to see a sense of humor lurking under all that purpose.
"When I was in high school," she says, "I didn't have a date for the prom. But I looked at the positive side. I went out and asked a guy because I did not want to regret it the rest of my life. I said: 'Do you have a prom date? Would you like to come with me?' His face turned so red I thought something was wrong. But he was shy. And he said, 'Oh, yes, of course.' We had a great time. He drove a BMW car with a phone, and we went to a fancy restaurant."
She is quick to add: "But I always worked hard because you needed a 3.0 average or higher to get a scholarship. If I made bad grades I pushed myself, no TV, nothing. Good grades are so important. Because if I have wisdom, no one can take advantage of me and make me feel less important."
When Miss Whitestone is asked questions about her parents, she speaks only of her mother, never mentioning her father, Bill Whitestone, who is a partner in a furniture store in a nearby town and was divorced from her mother eight years ago.
She says that besides her mother, she looks up to the Chicago schoolteacher Marva Collins, who was the subject of a television movie. "She had the desire to help younger people with no hopes and no dreams, to make them feel unique. I want to do what she did. To look at abilities first, disabilities second."
Does she plan to marry? "Eventually," she says. "But only to a one-woman man. An honest person and also a Christian." Well, that could be tough to find. She nods. "But anything is possible," she says, laughing.
While she finally starts to eat, Ms. Gray sits down at the table, too. When she and her daughter speak to each other, their bodies bend forward, then away, like plants underwater.
If Heather had not been deaf, how different would both their lives have been?
"We don't play the 'if' games," Ms. Gray says firmly. She is 48, also brunette and elegantly dressed in a dark teal suit and taupe blouse. "Heather is deaf. Therefore, Heather is a product of her deafness because that is part of her. I have always believed God gives each one of us unique gifts, and not to fulfill that potential is a terrible wrong." A faraway look comes to her eyes when she speaks about what Heather can do, as if she hears something no one else can. As if having a deaf daughter means she hears extra.
"Since Heather became Miss America, it's made my job easier," she continues. "When I say there are no excuses, the students believe me." Miss Whitestone signed a poster for her mother's classroom that reads: "As you can see, I am a result of my mother's action and determination."
Which, Ms. Gray concedes, were initially hard won. "I went through the whole gamut of feelings when Heather lost her hearing," she says. "Angry, hurt, lost, devastated. The good Lord and I had six months of a real hard time. But I believe you grow in character during hardship. Good times are the reinforcers. I am grateful the good Lord didn't give up on me. Why not me? I could handle it, once the peace was gotten in my heart. It was a new challenge. I could feel sorry for myself or see what we could get done. If you concentrate on a negative you get no results."
At 7:30 the next morning, the white stretch limousine has actually arrived. Miss Whitestone enters the scene in a magenta coat dress. The police escort has returned, and the posse sets off for Hoover High School in a Birmingham suburb, where 2,200 students plus faculty members are waiting to welcome Miss America.
They do it in style, with a red carpet leading into a gymnasium. The school band plays, and the crowd gives her a standing ovation. She is presented a bouquet of red roses and sits in a chair with her crown in a box next to her. A group of students stands in front of her signing a song.
When they are finished, her former teacher Lisa Armstrong says: "Heather, you are our hero. We are so proud of you, so happy for you." She hugs her.
Left alone on the gym floor, miked but without a podium, Miss Whitestone begins to speak. "I have a unique opportunity to make a difference in many people's lives," she begins. "I am so excited to talk about my platform. There is no limit to what we can achieve." Then she holds up her crown, to loud applause, which cuts off the snickering by a clique of girls high up in the bleachers. If she has noticed, she does not let on.
"I didn't wear the crown, so you could see me as the person first and Miss America second," she explains. "So many people think they are not worth it, I can't stand it. I understand frustration. But America gives us wonderful freedom to be ourselves."
She goes on, explaining her platform clearly and succinctly with nothing to hide behind, no place to put her hands. She is poised, articulate, genuine. Her mother and teachers look on, proud.
"God bless you all, work hard and I wish you the best of luck," Miss Whitestone says. The applause starts. But not from everyone.
"Is that it?" a girl asks, watching the crown disappear in its box. "Is that all we get?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miss America, Heather Whitestone, signs, "I love you," to students in Birmingham, Ala. (pg. C1); Heather Whitestone shows her crown to students at her alma mater. (pg. C4) (Alan Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: JACKSONVILLE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); JACKSONVILLE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JACKSONVILLE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); JACKSONVILLE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM (ALA); UNITED STATES (95%); ALABAMA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BEAUTY CONTESTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MISS AMERICA GOVERNORS (88%); DEAFNESS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); BALLET (71%); DANCE COMPANIES (66%); DANCERS (66%); HEARING AIDS (61%); INFLUENZA (57%); BACTERIA (57%); 

PERSON: WHITESTONE, HEATHER; WITCHEL, ALEX HEATHER WHITESTONE (96%); EDWARD GEORGE NICHOLAS PAUL PATRICK WINDSOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



669 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
It's a Grim Message: Dummies Fail More Often

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:

THE BELL CURVE
Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life
By Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray.
845 pages. The Free Press. $30.
Charles Murray, best known for attacking welfare, and Richard Herrnstein, an experimental psychologist who argued that intelligence is largely in the genes, built public careers as the dark angels of social science. And with the publication of "The Bell Curve," their reputations have apparently been secured: The 845-page tract has driven liberal editorial writers to rug-chewing and led the editors of The New Republic to elicit 17 separate rebuttals. 
 The idea behind "The Bell Curve," as many readers must know by now, is that I.Q. is destiny, determining how individuals get along in school, jobs and social relations. Since little can be done to raise "cognitive ability," the argument goes, little can be done to change the socioeconomic pecking order.
This is a grim message, the authors acknowledge, but someone must deliver it. "There can be no real progress in solving America's social problems," Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray explain, "when they are as misperceived as they are today."
Not everyone has been charmed by the pair's appeal to sweet reason. Indeed, some critics have been inclined to hang the defendants without a trial: merely entertaining the idea that I.Q. tests predict economic performance, they believe, breeds complacency about racism because just one black American in six scores above the average for whites.
That is unfortunate, for the authors' look at the nexus between measured intelligence and life outcomes is the most original and interesting part of the book. The analysis deteriorates sharply when it moves on to the question of whether intelligence can be raised through government intervention, and the implications for public policy if it cannot. Indeed, what begins as provocative research on the plight of the losers in a meritocracy ends in a sloppily reasoned rationale for letting them eat cake.
Look again at that unpalatable first premise. Standardized tests of intelligence have been widely condemned for cultural bias, and their use as sorting devices has been discouraged by the courts as well as by liberal opinion. But whatever the tests measure, Mr. Herrnstein, who died last month, and Mr. Murray correctly remind us that the scores predict success in school for ethnic minorities as well as for whites.
What works in predicting school performance apparently also works for predicting success on the job. Even when other key variables (education, parents' social class) are accounted for, scores on one widely administered examination, the Armed Forces Qualification Test, are a potent factor in predicting differences in later earnings. It seems that the growing role of intelligence in determining economic productivity largely accounts for the widening gap between rich and poor.
If all this rings a (different) bell, go to the head of the curve. A number of commentators, including Secretary of Labor Robert B. Reich, have fretted in public about the unhealthy consequences of rewarding citizens according to their skills when so many have so few skills.
The authors of "The Bell Curve" go much further, however, slipping a moral dimension into the argument. They say intelligence also predicts crime rates, welfare dependence, poor parenting and indifference to civic responsibility. And they cleverly trump their race-conscious critics by looking solely at the evidence of differences among whites.
Unlikely as this direct link between intelligence and character may seem, the analysis is scientifically respectable. What comes next, though, is heavily compromised by ideology.
Since they say I.Q. is the key to success, they agree it would be tempting to give the dullards a helping hand. But, alas, they conclude, a better society cannot be built on good intentions and taxpayers' money alone. "For the foreseeable future," they write, "the problems of low cognitive ability are not going to be solved by outside interventions to make children smarter."
Why not? Efforts to raise intelligence through improved childhood nutrition, the authors explain, have been inconclusive. The measurable benefits of preschool enrichment programs dissipate when the youngsters return to the mean streets. A week's worth of prepping for the S.A.T.'s raises average math scores by only 25 points.
Note the disconnect here: The ambiguous evidence from America's on-again, off-again efforts to cope with the consequences of poverty and racial prejudice hardly squares with the authors' deeply pessimistic conclusion. But a belief in genetic determinism would explain it. And while they never make a fuss about heredity, they don't bother to conceal it. It is "beyond significant technical dispute," they write, that "cognitive ability is substantially heritable, apparently no less than 40 percent and no more than 80 percent."
Does that put the authors beyond the scholarly pale? Many biologists think so, dismissing the possibility that a group characteristic as complex as heritable intelligence could have diverged so sharply between races in what amounts to a single tick of the evolutionary clock. But this reviewer is not a biologist, and will leave the argument to experts.
It takes less expertise to analyze the Herrnstein-Murray policy prescription. With society increasingly dominated by its meritocratic elite, they predict the winners will create a "custodial state" in which the underclass will be stripped of rights and responsibilities. "We have in mind a high-tech and more lavish version of the Indian reservation for some substantial minority of the nation's population," they write.
And what is the alternative that follows from their full and frank discussion of the plight of those not fortunate enough to have been born in Lake Wobegon? They would give the losers a chance to "find valued places in society."
All Mr. Herrnstein and Mr. Murray seem to have in mind, however, is getting Big Brother off the backs of the intellectually challenged. Simpler economic rules, they say, would free the underclass from regulation and taxation intended to protect the perquisites of the elite. Clearer rules about the vices of crime and dependence would provide disincentives for theft, violence and procreation outside marriage. Decentralization of government responsibility to the neighborhood level would help restore community (racial?) pride and traditional values.
If this seems a bit underwhelming, join the crowd. After wading through a long, quasi-academic examination of the statistical links between intelligence, character, race and poverty, the reader's reward is a hoary lecture on the evils of the welfare state.
At least Rush Limbaugh has a sense of humor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Murray; Richard J. Herrnstein (The Free Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BELL CURVE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; INTELLIGENCE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WRITERS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (74%); ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); TRENDS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); RACE & RACISM (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); ETHNICITY (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; MURRAY, CHARLES; HERRNSTEIN, RICHARD J CHARLES MURRAY (77%); RICHARD J HERRNSTEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



670 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Cold Hearts in France

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis; Flora Lewis is a former foreign affairs columnist of The New York Times.

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
What is a country to do when it prides itself on being "a land of asylum" -- a haven for the persecuted, dedicated to human rights -- yet feels threatened by a flood of hundreds of thousands of refugees?
I am not talking about the United States but about France. These painful questions have become urgent here, too, and the wrenching demands of conscience versus expediency have brought the Government under attack. 
 The source of the biggest trouble is Algeria, which is as much a part of France's backyard as Haiti is of America's, although the French don't say that. Of course Algeria is no hapless Haiti but rather a big oil producer and major French trading partner. And it is shuddering on the brink of civil war. Estimates vary from 10,000 to 30,000 people killed since the conflict began nearly three years ago, after elections were canceled because the Government feared that the Islamic fundamentalists would win.
A particularly nasty feature of the warfare is the assassination of intellectuals and foreigners by armed fundamentalist groups. The toll rises almost daily; it has reached 22 journalists and 64 expatriates, many of them French. It seems to be an adaptation of the Che Guevara strategy of fomenting revolution by murders that will provoke government reprisal and thus sharpen public anger against those in power.
France has warned its citizens to leave Algeria unless their presence is essential, in effect bowing to the fundamentalists' determination to drive foreigners out and thus weaken the economy's links outside.
But France has virtually stopped giving visas to Algerians whose lives are threatened and who want even temporary refuge.
This has aroused an outcry in France, particularly among intellectuals who feel obliged to show their disgust at lethal attacks on the arts and freedom of speech, and their solidarity with the victims.
Apart from Algeria, the occasions for their outrage are frequent. Taslima Nasrin, the Bangladeshi writer who fled to Sweden because of a fatwa calling for her death, was invited to appear on a French television show but refused the Government's humiliating offer of a visa limited to 24 hours. Its excuse was that she was such a big security risk. Publicly denounced for hypocrisy and cowardice, the Interior Ministry relented and promised her a week's visa "once the security situation permits."
Officials are loath to make exceptions for fear of an outpouring of refugees as the Algerian war intensifies and of a sudden increase in France's Muslim population. Islam is already the second religion in France, and some of its rules and practices conflict with French laws and customs.
Traditionally, France treats migrants as individuals, to be offered assimilation and protected from persecution. French moral principle and prospects for social harmony argue for relying on the country's egalitarian educational system to promote assimilation, and to apply laws on the basis of individuals, not groups.
But there are political pressures from the right wing, which blames the migrants for crime, unemployment and abuse of welfare. The Government, trying to avoid losing support to the right, has made concessions to these views.
That's a mistake. The answer has to be to continue to offer refuge, to preserve national pride in inclusiveness and the welcome to citizenship.
The right incites fears about loss of French identity. But that identity is founded on "liberty, equality, fraternity." It would be lost if that base were undermined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); ALGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA; FRANCE; FRANCE (99%); ALGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ALGERIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-FRANCE POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLITICS (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



671 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Getting Real

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
"One of the reasons why people are so turned off about politics today," said the Mayor of New York on Monday, is "because we don't act like we're real people."
Amen. But I must confess that I never considered Rudolph Giuliani a real person, either, until I heard his endorsement of Mario Cuomo. 
 Much has been said about how shocking it is for a Republican Mayor to embrace the state's longest-running, longest-winded Democrat. Mr. Giuliani didn't just stand up for the man he believes to be the city's best hope in Albany, but he stood up to his own political allies, from Guy Molinari of Staten Island to Phil Gramm to Mortimer Zuckerman's editorialists in The Daily News, all of whom promptly fell into a flabbergasted snit.
Even so, not enough has been said about the eloquence with which Mr. Giuliani succinctly laid out the logic behind his tough decision at his press conference. Whatever the outcome of the New York governor's race, the Mayor has single-handedly elevated political discourse in an election season when voters of both parties are as turned off as he said.
Mr. Giuliani did not indulge in euphemisms. Speaking of George Pataki, the Republican he spurned, and Alfonse D'Amato, Mr. Pataki's patron, he reviled "a candidate taking as few positions as possible, all of them as general as possible, taking no risks and being guided and scripted by others."
So pungent were the Mayor's remarks that they transcended the narrow political culture of New York. He decried anyone who runs on cliches, slogans and sound bites and summed up the appeal of content-free campaigns in a sentence: "George Pataki's only essential characteristic is that he offers an alternative." Any C-Span viewer who has shared my masochistic inclination to surf among local political debates in recent days knows that this description of an empty suit also fits Democrats and Republicans alike in statewide races in Texas, Florida, Maryland and Illinois.
What sort of candidate rises above the dreary norm of '94? Mr. Giuliani's simple answer: "I prefer someone who has their own ideas, can tell you what those ideas are and you can disagree with them if you want to." By contrasting Mr. Cuomo's specificity with Mr. Pataki's vacillation on crucial economic issues, the Mayor made a more effective case for a fourth Cuomo term than the Governor himself has marshaled thus far.
Still, Mr. Giuliani didn't hypocritically try to flatter or fake out his strange new political bedfellows by pretending to be the next John Lindsay. He proudly reiterated his own faith in Republican conservative dogma, which is the antithesis of Mr. Cuomo's Democratic orthodoxy. As the Mayor's new round of budget cuts dramatized a day later, his route to a fiscally recovered New York is a painful 12-step program in which the poor and disenfranchised must enroll first.
But in a party now synonymous with Newt Gingrich, Mr. Giuliani's intellectual integrity makes him a hero. And in a year when Democrats are hardly made of sterner stuff -- who among them has the courage of his 1992 convictions? -- he joins a small but conspicuous list of Republicans who believe in something besides self-advancement. Arlen Specter, a pariah among liberals since the Clarence Thomas hearings, is now a G.O.P. pariah for speaking out against the religious right. John Warner refused to support Oliver North in Virginia from day one. William Bennett and Jack Kemp came out against the immigrant-bashing ballot Proposition 187 beloved by Republican candidates in California.
Contrast these exceptions with a party leader like Bob Dole, who, after correctly dismissing Oliver North as "a loose cannon," tossed aside principle to campaign for him anyway. "You have to be flexible sometimes," said Mr. Dole by way of explanation.
Not so, says Rudolph Giuliani. "The voters want politicians to be like them -- straight, honest," is how he put it this week, and he's right. I didn't vote for Mr. Giuliani; maybe I never will. But by acting like a real person, by speaking straight and without slogans, he started an open-ended adult conversation that engaged me, and certainly not me alone, as few other politicians have in this foul election year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); RICH, FRANK; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); FRANK RICH (58%); PHIL GRAMM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



672 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Aunt Jemima Is Least of U.S. Blacks' Worries

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Aunt Jemima Gets a Makeover" by Brent Staples (Editorial Notebook, Oct. 19): It amazes me how some African-Americans misplace their ire on racial inequality issues and perceptions of inferiority. As an African-born American, I cannot comprehend how the picture of a black man on a box of rice demeans my sense of being or harms my status and capability in the society. 
 I do not intend to disregard factual incidents of racism. Neither am I ignorant of history. The reality is that a black child born in America today has a lower life expectancy than a Bangladeshi similarly born. As the father of a 10-year-old son, I am bothered by that a lot. Insofar as the same oddity does not apply to a Caucasian born in America, I am perplexed at this inequality.
Furthermore, within the course of his lower life expectancy, we are told, the African child born in America may very likely not earn as much as his Caucasian colleague, and he is more likely to be killed as a result of a criminal act perpetrated by a member of his race.
It seems to me that the issue that impacts the dignity, survival and prosperity of an African-American is more a matter of equal opportunity in the areas of academic excellence and economic well-being than it is of whether an Uncle Ben or a Betty Crocker adorns the package of a food item or a household product. Ken Smikle, the publisher of Target Market News, should get a grip on the real issues that confront African-Americans in today's America.
 
KINGSLEY SOSOO
Brooklyn, Oct. 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DISCRIMINATION AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: STAPLES, BRENT; SOSOO, KINGSLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1994



673 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2717 words

HEADLINE: THE JORDAN-ISRAEL ACCORD:;
The Agreement: Establishing Principles for a Lasting Peace

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the official English text of the Israel-Jordan peace treaty:
 The Government of the State of Israel and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: BEARING IN MIND the Washington Declaration, signed by them on 25th July, 1994, and which they are both committed to honor; 
AIMING at the achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East based on Security Council resolutions 242 and 338 in all their aspects;
 BEARING IN MIND the importance of maintaining and strengthening peace based on freedom, equality, justice and respect for fundamental human rights, thereby overcoming psychological barriers and promoting human dignity;
 REAFFIRMING their faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and recognizing their right and obligation to live in peace with each other as well as with all states, within secure and recognized boundaries;
 DESIRING to develop friendly relations and cooperation between them in accordance with the principles of international law governing international relations in time of peace;
 DESIRING as well to ensure lasting security for both their States and in particular to avoid threats and the use of force between them; BEARING IN MIND that in their Washington Declaration of 25th July, 1994, they declared the termination of the state of belligerency between them;
 DECIDING to establish peace between them in accordance with this Treaty of Peace;
 Have agreed as follows:
 
Article I Establishment of Peace
 Peace is hereby established between the State of Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the "Parties") effective from the exchange of the instruments of ratification of this Treaty.
 
Article 2 General Principles
 The Parties will apply between them the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law governing relations among states in times of peace. In particular:
 1. They recognize and will respect each other's sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence;
 2. They recognize and will respect each other's right to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries;
 3. They will develop good neighborly relations of cooperation between them to ensure lasting security, will refrain from the threat or use of force against each other and will settle all disputes between them by peaceful means;
 4. They respect and recognize the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every state in the region;
 5. They respect and recognize the pivotal role of human development and dignity in regional and bilateral relationships;
 6. They further believe that within their control, involuntary movements of persons in such a way as to adversely prejudice the security of either Party should not be permitted.
 
Article 3 International Boundary
 1. The international boundary between Israel and Jordan is delimited with reference to the boundary definition under the Mandate as is shown in Annex I (a), on the mapping materials attached thereto and coordinates specified therein.
 2. The boundary, as set out in Annex I (a), is the permanent, secure and recognized international boundary between Israel and Jordan, without prejudice to the status of any territories that came under Israeli military government control in 1967.
 3. The Parties recognize the international boundary, as well as each other's territory, territorial waters and airspace, as inviolable, and will respect and comply with them.
 4. The demarcation of the boundary will take place as set forth in Appendix I to Annex I (a) and will be concluded not later than nine months after the signing of the Treaty.
 5. It is agreed that where the boundary follows a river, in the event of natural changes in the course of the flow of the river as described in Annex I (a), the boundary shall follow the new course of the flow. In the event of any other changes, the boundary shall not be affected unless otherwise agreed.
 6. Immediately upon the exchange of the instruments of ratification of this Treaty, each Party will deploy on its side of the international boundary as defined in Annex I (a).
 7. The Parties shall upon the signature of the Treaty, enter into negotiations to conclude, within nine months, an agreement on the delimitation of their maritime boundary in the Gulf of Aqaba.
 8. Taking into account the special circumstances of the Naharayim/Baqura area, which is under Jordanian sovereignty, with Israeli private ownership rights, the Parties agree to apply the provisions set out in Annex I (b).
 9. With respect to the Zofar area, the provisions set out in Annex I (c) will apply.
 
Article 4 Security
 1. a. Both Parties, acknowledging that mutual understanding and cooperation in security-related matters will form a significant part of their relations and will further enhance the security of the region, take upon themselves to base their security relations on mutual trust, advancement of joint interests and cooperation, and to aim towards a regional framework of partnership in peace.
 b. Towards that goal the Parties recognize the achievements of the European Community and European Union in the development of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and commit themselves to the creation, in the Middle East of a CSCEME (Conference on Security and Cooperation in the Middle East).
 This commitment entails the adoption of regional models of security successfully implemented in the post-World War era (along the lines of the Helsinki process) culminating in a regional zone of security and stability.
 2. The obligations referred to in this Article are without prejudice to the inherent right of self-defense in accordance with the United Nations Charter.
 3. The Parties undertake, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, the following:
 a. To refrain from the threat or use of force or weapons, conventional, non-conventional or of any other kind, against each other, or of other actions or activities that adversely affect the security of the other Party.
 b. To refrain from organizing, instigating, inciting, assisting or participating in acts or threats of belligerency, hostility, subversion or violence against the other Party.
 c. To take necessary and effective measures to insure that acts or threats of belligerency, hostility, subversion or violence against the other Party do not originate from and are not committed within their territory (hereinafter the term "territory" includes the airspace and territorial waters), or through or over the territory.
 4. Consistent with the era of peace and with the efforts to build regional security and to avoid and prevent aggression and violence, the Parties further agree to refrain from the following:
 a. Joining or in any way assisting, promoting or cooperating with any coalition, organization or alliance with a military or security character with a third party, the objectives or activities of which include launching aggression or other acts of military hostility against the other Party, in contravention of the provisions of the present treaty.
 b. Allowing the entry, stationing and operating on their territory, or through it, of military forces, personal or material of a third party, in circumstances which may adversely prejudice the security of the other party.
 5. Both Parties will take necessary and effective measures, and will cooperate in combating terrorism of all kinds. The Parties undertake:
 a. To take necessary and affective measures to prevent acts of terrorism, subversion or violence from being carried out from their territory or through it and to take necessary and affective measures to combat such activities and all their perpetrators.
 b. Without prejudice to the basic rights of freedom of expression and association, to take necessary and effective measures to prevent the entry, presence and operation in their territory of any group or organization, and their infrastructure, which threatens the security of the other Party by the use of or incitement to the use of violent means.
 c. To cooperate in preventing and combating cross-boundary infiltrations.
 6. Any question as to the implementation of this article will be dealt with through a mechanism of consultations which will include a liaison system, verification, supervision and where necessary, other mechanisms of consultations will be contained in an agreement to be concluded by the Parties within three months of the exchange of the instruments of ratification of this treaty.
 7. To work as a matter of priority and as soon as possible in the context of the multilateral working group on Arms Control and Regional Security, and jointly, towards the following:
 a. The creation in the Middle East of a region free from hostile alliances and coalitions.
 b. The creation of a Middle East free from weapons of mass destruction, both conventional and non-conventional, in the context of a comprehensive, lasting and stable peace, characterized by the renunciation of the use of force, reconciliation and goodwill.
 
Article 5 Diplomatic and Other Bilateral Relations
 1. The Parties agree to establish full diplomatic and consular relations and to exchange resident ambassadors within one month of the exchange of the instruments of ratifications of this treaty.
 2. The Parties agree that the normal relationship between them will further include economic and cultural relations.
 
Article 6 Water
 With the view to achieving a comprehensive and lasting settlement of all the water problems between them:
 1. The Parties agree mutually to recognize the rightful allocations of both of them in Jordan River and Yarmouk River waters and Arava/Araba ground water in accordance with the agreed acceptable principles, quantities and quality as set out in Annex II, which shall be fully respected and complied with.
 2. The Parties, recognizing the necessity to find a practical, just and agreed solution to their water problems and with the review that the subject of water can form the basis for the advancement of cooperation between them, jointly undertake to insure that the management and development of their water resources do not, in any way, harm the water resources of the other Party.
 3. The Parties recognize that their water resources are not sufficient to meet their needs. More water should be supplied for their use through various methods including projects of regional and international cooperation.
 4. In light of paragraph 3, with the understanding that cooperation in water-related subjects would be to the benefit of both Parties and will help alleviate their water shortages and that water issues along their entire boundary must be dealt with in their totality, including the possibility of transfers, the Parties agree to search for ways to alleviate water shortage and to cooperate in the following fields:
 a. Development of existing and new water resources, increasing the water availability including cooperation on a regional basis as appropriate and minimizing waste of water resources through the chain of their uses.
 b. Prevention of contamination of water resources.
 c. Mutual assistance in the alleviation of water shortages.
 d. Transfer of information and joint research and development in water-related subjects and review of the potentials for enhancement of water resources development and use.
 5. The implementation of both countries' undertakings under this Article is detailed in annex II.
 
Article 7 Economic Relations
 1. Viewing economic development and prosperity as pillars of peace, security and harmonious relations between states, people and individual human beings, the Parties, taking note of the understanding reached between them, affirm their mutual desire to promote economic cooperation between them, as well as within the framework of wider economic cooperation.
 2. In order to accomplish this goal, the Parties agree to the following:
 a. To remove all discriminatory barriers to normal economic relations, to terminate economic boycotts directed at each other, and to cooperate in terminating boycotts against either Party by third parties.
 b. Recognizing that the principle of free and unimpeded flow of goods and services should guide their relations, the Parties will enter into negotiations with a view to concluding agreements on economic cooperation, including trade and establishment of a free-trade area, investment, banking, industrial cooperation and labor, for the purpose of promoting beneficial economic relations, based on principles to be agreed upon, as well as on human development considerations on a regional basis. These negotiations will be concluded no later than six months from the exchange of the instruments of ratification of this treaty.
 c. To cooperate bilaterally, as well as in multilateral forums, towards the promotion of their respective economics and of their neighborly economic relations with other regional parties.
 
Article 8 Refugees and Displaced Persons
 1. Recognizing the massive human problems caused to both Parties by the conflict in the Middle East, as well as the contribution made by them towards the alleviation of human suffering, the Parties will seek to further alleviate those problems arising on a bilateral level.
 2. Recognizing that the above human problems caused by the conflict in the Middle East cannot be fully resolved on the bilateral level, the Parties will seek to resolve law, including the following:
 a. in the case of displaced persons, in a quadripartite committee together with Egypt and the Palestinians;
 b. in the case of refugees,
 i. in the framework of the Multilateral Working Group on Refugees;
 ii. in negotiations, in a framework to be agreed, bilateral or otherwise, in conjunction with and at the same time as the permanent to in Article 3 of this treaty.
 3. Through the implementation of agreed United Nations and other agreed international economic programs concerning refugees and displaced persons, including assistance to their settlement.
 
Article 9 Places of Historical and Religious Significance
 1. Each Party will provide freedom of access to places of religious and historical significance.
 2. In this regard, in accordance with the Washington declaration, Israel respects the present special role of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in Muslim holy shrines in Jerusalem. When negotiations on the permanent status will take place, Israel will give high priority to the Jordanian historic role in these shrines.
 3. The Parties will act together to promote inter-faith among the three monotheistic religions, with the aim of working towards religious understanding, moral commitment, freedom of religious worship, and tolerance and peace.
 
Article 10 Cultural and Scientific Exchanges
 The Parties, wishing to remove biases developed through periods of conflict, recognize the desirability of cultural exchanges in all fields, and agree to establish normal cultural relations between them. Thus, they shall, as soon as possible and not later than nine months from the exchange of the instruments of ratification of this treaty, conclude the negotiations on cultural and scientific agreements.
 
Article 11 Mutual Understanding and Good Neighborly Relations
 1. The Parties will seek to foster mutual understanding and tolerance based on shared historic values, and accordingly undertake:
 a. To obtain from hostile or discriminatory propaganda against each other, and to take all possible legal and administrative measures to prevent the dissemination of such propaganda by any organization or individual present in the territory of either Party;
 b. As soon as possible, and not later than three months from the exchange of the instruments of ratification of this treaty, to repeal all adverse or discriminatory references and expressions of hostility in their respective legislation;
 c. To refrain in all government publications from any such references or expressions;
 d. To ensure mutual enjoyment by each other's citizens of due process of law within their respective legal systems and before their courts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); JORDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; JORDAN; ISRAEL (99%); JORDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

SUBJECT: ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN; TREATIES PEACE PROCESS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (85%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994



674 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
A Down-to-Earth View at United

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
Gerald Greenwald, chairman of United Airlines, observed recently that the airline is a business of a million details. But in the three months since he took over the employee-owned company, he has subtracted a few items from that list. The toe-cleavage rule was one of the first.
Toe cleavage refers to the spaces between the toes that were once fashionable to display with low-cut shoes. Former management thought it was inappropriate and flight attendants were not allowed to wear shoes that revealed it. 
 A small detail, perhaps, but an important signal to the employees whom Mr. Greenwald has to enlist in changing United's rigid corporate culture into one where they are encouraged to make more decisions for themselves.
Mr. Greenwald has given pilots more freedom in setting air speed, a change that helped the airline last month report the best on-time performance in its history. He also got rid of the weight limits that had irritated flight attendants, and dropped another rule that required women to wear shoes with at least an inch-and-a-half heel when walking through the airport.
Such changes are a key piece of his strategy, which he says will help lead to higher profits and a place in history for what is now the country's largest employee-owned company.
He faces many challenges. He has yet to bring 17,000 flight attendants, who are at the front lines of customer service, into the employee stock ownership plan. He must continue to cut costs to stay a step ahead of relentless economic pressures on the industry, flesh out his vision for the airline and keep thousands of employees focused on longer-term goals instead of their recent pay cuts.
To be sure, investors say it is premature to assess the leadership of Mr. Greenwald, who took over in July after employees traded wage and work rule concessions for 55 percent of the company. "From a financial perspective, it's too early because we haven't seen the first clean quarter," said Timothy Pettee, an analyst at Alliance Capital Management, the single largest shareholder of the UAL Corporation, the parent company of United.
Indeed, the third quarter-earnings of UAL, released yesterday, are clouded somewhat by a raft of accounting changes that resulted from the employee buyout. United said it made a net profit of $82 million, down from $149 million in the corresponding period a year earlier. But excluding one-time charges associated with the employee buyout, the company earned $178 million in the latest quarter.
The results were somewhat better than industry analysts had expected, but were in line with industry trends toward improved third-quarter earnings. Delta Air Lines also reported better-than-expected earnings yesterday, pushing up its stock $2.50 a share, to $49.25, on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of UAL closed at $89, up $3.75, on the Big Board.
The stock price of UAL is not much higher than it was on July 12, the day of the employee buyout. Even so, many workers applaud the changes that Mr. Greenwald has made to loosen the company's management style.
Pilots and other employees say they now have more access to top managers and are included more often in discussions about strategy. Mr. Greenwald spends roughly half his workweek visiting United employees around the country, telling them, particularly the skeptics, "We can talk about your complaints or we can talk about your ideas."
During an employee meeting last week in Tulsa, Okla., he referred often to teams of employees who meet regularly to fine-tune United's fledgling Shuttle operation on the West Coast.
"If I can make the whole company feel, look and act the way the employees are doing at the Shuttle, this company is going to coin money," he said.
To promote teamwork among top officers, they and the airline's union leaders will spend a week together in upstate New York next month in team-building exercises and strategy discussions.
"Not everything is rosy, and we do not always agree with management's stance," said Harlow B. Osteboe, chairman of United's pilots union and a UAL board member. "But at least now we are able to sit down and say, 'What are you thinking, because this is what I'm thinking.' "
Indeed, not everything is rosy at United. As long as the flight attendants remain outside the deal, Mr. Greenwald will have to use collective nouns haltingly when discussing United's employee-owners.
Many employees also remain critical of the deal, saying they overpaid for their UAL stock to complete the buyout, which also weakened UAL's balance sheet.
"Most of the 'accomplishments' of Greenwald could have taken place without the raid on corporate assets by major shareholders, departing and present senior management and their advisers," said George T. Lenormand, a United pilot.
Mr. Greenwald still has to show that his plan will win out over what many industry experts see as troubling trends in the airline business: passenger traffic is no longer rising in lockstep with an improving economy and travelers are increasingly sensitive to price increases.
Although United's unit costs rose 2.6 percent in the third quarter, Mr. Greenwald said the company had proved it could cut costs. Earlier this month, for example, the company stopped flying to 15 airports.
Still, some United managers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were concerned that the focus on cost-cutting might not continue as Mr. Greenwald and his president, John A. Edwardson, sought to build the airline.
And Mr. Pettee of Alliance Capital said he wanted to see United continue to pare costs.
"As I look at this overbuilt industry and United's modest participation in that overbuilding, we hope that they continue to make efforts to cut out the unprofitable flying," Mr. Pettee said.
Mr. Greenwald's strategy for improving profits is to convince United employees that if they offer better service and on-time performance, United will attract more passengers, particularly business travelers who buy more expensive, last-minute fares.
Others, of course, have tried such a strategy before. After Alfred A. Checchi took over Northwest Airlines in 1989, he espoused employee empowerment to improve service, but tightened the reins when profit prospects soured in 1992.
After five consecutive quarters of profitability at Northwest, however, the reins have loosened slightly, in part because of some prodding from employees who last year traded concessions for 33 percent of the company.
But Mr. Greenwald, who says he has been a a student of labor relations throughout his career, vows that he will not stray from his goal of changing the culture at United.
Still, if United falls on hard times and requires more employee concessions, even workers who are cheerleaders of employee-ownership say there will be a blood bath. Mr. Greenwald waves off such concerns. He said the recent route cutbacks were evidence that tough decisions could be be made at United.
For now, he is hoping to win the enthusiasm of employees like Kit Darby, a United pilot who said he was not an advocate of the buyout last summer because much of his retirement savings had to be invested only in UAL, instead of a wider portfolio.
"Whatever you might have thought of the deal, all that's over," Mr. Darby said this week. "The only way you can enhance the value of your career is to improve the value of the stock. That's a bottom-line challenge."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerald Greenwald, chairman of United Airlines, has been encouraging workers at the country's largest employee-owned company to make more decisions themselves. He talked to workers in Tulsa, Okla. (Michael Wyke for The New York Times)
 
Table: "UAL Corp. (UAL,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch		 	 	 	Rev.	3,814,000,000	3,629,000,000	+5.1		 	 	 	Net inc.	b82,000,000	149,000,000	-45.0		 	 	 	Sh. earn	4.24	5.74	 		 	 	 	Sh. out.	14,500,000	24,300,000	 		 	 	 	9m rev.	10,511,000,000	9,978,000,000	+5.3		 	 	 	Net inc.	c40,000,000	d15,000,000	 		 	 	 	Sh. earn	.03	(.38)	 		 	 	 	Sh. out.	21,200,000	24,200,000	 	
 
b-Included $96 million after-tax charge for costs associated with the completion of the recent employee investment transaction.
c-After a net charge of $26 million, or $1.22 a share, from an adjustment in accounting. UAL adopted SFAS 112, Employers' Accounting for Post-Employment Benefits, effective Jan. 1, 1994. The effect was a cumulative charge for recognition of the transition liability of $42 million, before tax benefits of $16 million.
d-After an extraordinary charge of $19 million, or 77 cents a share, on loss from early extinguishment of debt, net of tax.
The latest third quarter's shares outstanding decreased as a result of the employee investment transaction.
(Loss)
The latest results were after preferred stock dividends of $20 million in the quarter and $39 million in the 9 months, compared with $9 million and $24 million in year-ago periods, respectively.
Revenue represented total operating revenue.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$89
Up $3.75
 
(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY REPORTS; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; EMPLOYEE OWNED COMPANIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); TRENDS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; GREENWALD, GERALD GERALD GREENWALD (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



675 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: In Africa, the U.S. Takes a Back Seat

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Oct. 27

 BODY:
When the Deputy Secretary of State, Strobe Talbott, set out for Africa last week on his first diplomatic mission here, he openly acknowledged that for him, as for much of the American foreign policy establishment, this continent was "terra incognita."
And from the very first stop, Bujumbura, Burundi's capital, the trip was full of reminders that for much of Africa visits by high-level American officials are just as unfamiliar an experience. 
 The Air Force plane on which Mr. Talbott was traveling touched down in Bujumbura late last Friday for a quick refueling stop on its way to Zimbabwe during which he planned to hold a 45-minute discussion with the Foreign Minister of Burundi on the ethnic conflict that has riven that country and neighboring Rwanda.
The only problem was that by the time the talks were completed, no one had bothered to refuel the plane. In fact, American Embassy officials soon discovered, the airport was effectively closed for business and the people who ordinarily handle refueling were nowhere to be found.
In the first of several sharp reminders of whose influence penetrates most deeply in Africa, including countries like Burundi, a former Belgian colony, Mr. Talbott's tightly scheduled journey resumed only after a resident official from a French airline who held the key to the airport fuel depot was roused and persuaded to turn the pumps on.
In Harare, Zimbabwe, where Mr. Talbott had scheduled talks on managing regional conflicts -- the theme of the entire trip -- his presence, however welcome, seemed the source of confusion for many, who were unused to visits by Americans of his rank.
For years, much of United States policy on Africa has been run by freewheeling Assistant Secretaries of State like Chester A. Crocker and Herman Cohen with what has seemed here little visible input or interest from higher levels in Washington.
In Zimbabwe, and elsewhere on a trip that covered six countries, the presence at Mr. Talbott's side of the current Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, George E. Moose, left many perplexed about the role of the Deputy Secretary of State.
After Mr. Talbott spoke at a military academy on the importance of regional peacekeeping, a Zimbabwean journalist, echoing a puzzlement detected at several stops, approached an American colleague with this question: "Who is this Mr. Talbott? I mean is he really someone important?"
Mr. Talbott had other reasons to wonder briefly about his importance here when it proved impossible to see Zimbabwe's President, Robert Mugabe, on the Saturday that had been scheduled for the working part of his visit. Only on Sunday, after Mr. Talbott had flown to Malawi, the next country on the itinerary, did Zimbabwean officials signal their President's willingness to see the American diplomat, if only he would be so kind as to return.
Mr. Talbott obliged, juggling his schedule in Malawi for a lightning trip to Harare for what by all accounts turned out to be constructive talks about ending conflicts in nearby Mozambique and Angola.
Members of his party said afterward that the scheduling problem seemed due at least in part to the pique of his host that the last three American officials of any rank to visit Zimbabwe had come, like Mr. Talbott, on a Saturday, insisting that Mr. Mugabe make time for them.
Jetting off for Zaire, Mr. Talbott's party was at pains to explain why they had agreed to a fueling stop in Kinshasa, Zaire, to meet with the country's recently appointed Prime Minister, Kengo wa Dondo, for what would inevitably appear to some as an embrace of the longtime dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. Mr. Kengo, they said, had begun to undertake bold economic reforms.
"You can't attack Mobutu head on without bringing on something cataclysmic," one official said. "The trick for us is to incrementally extend legitimacy to Kengo without letting Mobutu hijack it for himself."
Leaving Kinshasa for Ghana 45 minutes later, after a quick session with Mr. Kengo in the VIP lounge, the American delegation could scarcely repress a somewhat different appraisal of the situation in Zaire. American aides had been left waiting in a steamy transit lounge with severe looking but loudly dressed security agents and hostesses dressed in tightly wrapped dyed cloth who passed out beer in long-stemmed glasses.
Climbing back aboard the Air Force plane, a senior official exclaimed, "Yucky!" Another proclaimed the milling agents in their dark glasses reminiscent of the Tontons Macoute in Haiti and said, apparently in an allusion to Mr. Mobutu, "You kind of get the feeling that they were not exactly Kengo's security."
France has led the way in urging Western cooperation with Mr. Kengo, and that country's long diplomatic shadow was evident almost everywhere on the trip. Nowhere was it more evident than in the Ivory Coast, where Mr. Talbott concluded his African journey on Wednesday.
In talks in Ghana, officials in that former English colony complained bitterly about the strong French influence in the region, which they said usually worked against Mr. Talbott's stated aim of getting Africans to unite across the colonial language divide and work together on a regional level to contain conflicts in their neighborhoods.
Mr. Talbott arrived in the Ivory Coast on Tuesday eager to urge that this most French of France's former colonies take the lead diplomatically in working with countries like Ghana to end a five-year-old civil war in neighboring Liberia. But from his address at the National Assembly before openly dozing legislators to the end of his stay here, it often seemed to members of Mr. Talbott's delegation not only that they were literally not speaking the same language as their Ivoirian hosts, but also that this country is so unaccustomed to thinking about Washington as a factor in West Africa that its officials had often only politely pretended to hear out the American's message.
As the meetings wound down, with little reply to Washington's diplomatic urgings from Ivoirian leaders other than a request for refugee aid, one official said with a note of resignation, "I think we are going to have work with Paris a little bit on this one."

GRAPHIC: Map of Africa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (97%); AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BURUNDI (95%); MALAWI (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); RWANDA (79%); 

CITY: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; FRANCE; BURUNDI; IVORY COAST; ZIMBABWE (97%); AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BURUNDI (95%); MALAWI (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); RWANDA (79%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AIR FORCES (76%); AIRLINES (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); 

PERSON: TALBOTT, STROBE (DEPUTY SEC); FRENCH, HOWARD W STROBE TALBOTT (96%); MOBUTU SESE SEKO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



676 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Wins Pledges of Support at Canadian Finance Meeting

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: WINNIPEG, Manitoba, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Ukraine, whose economy has nosedived since independence three years ago, won pledges for hundreds of millions of dollars in international financial support today to prop up the market-oriented reforms of its new President, Leonid D. Kuchma.
Mr. Kuchma, the 55-year-old former head of a missile factory who is making his first foreign trip since his election in July, said that as a result of the pledges, he sees a "stable, economically powerful, democratic and independent Ukraine, which will be integrated into the world's political and economic system." 
 Mr. Kuchma, Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia, and senior officials from industrialized nations and international financial institutions are here to attend the Conference on Partnership for Economic Transformation in Ukraine, which grew out of initiatives at the Naples economic summit meeting last summer.
At the sessions in Naples, $4 billion in aid was promised for Ukraine, a country of 52 million people, but the money was conditional on land redistribution, privatization of state enterprises, elimination of price controls, drastic cutting of the budget deficit and other measures to accelerate changes from a centrally planned economy.
Mr. Kuchma was able to announce to a plenary session today that much of the program has now been approved by his Government and endorsed by Ukraine's Parliament, where many deputies have been critical of a process they fear would lead to "corrupt capitalism."
Ukraine, the second most populous country in eastern Europe after Russia, is generally acknowledged to be much further behind in its efforts to become a market economy.
The International Monetary Fund announced it has just approved $371 million to help Ukraine finance imports this winter. The United States is giving $100 million and Canada $25 million for the same purposes. Western European countries and Japan are also being asked for financial support. The monetary fund is considering another $400 million of credits for Ukraine next year.
Lawrence Summers, Under Secretary of Treasury for International Economic Affairs and head of the United States delegation, said that in Ukraine there is now a "clear path" for reform, which represents a "very significant break from policies that have greatly reduced performance of the economy."
Mr. Kuchma has been trying to overhaul a stagnant economic system. High inflation has led to plummeting income and living standards. The country's economic output actually declined by 27 percent in the first half of this year. During the last three years, wages adjusted for inflation have fallen by more than 50 percent.
The Ukrainian currency, the karbovanets, is now trading at more than 100,000 to the dollar, compared with its initial rate three years ago of 200 to the dollar. As part of the reforms, a new convertible currency, to be called the hrivnia, is to be introduced in about four months. It would be supported by a $1.5 billion I.M.F. stabilization fund.
Foreign Minister Kozyrev pledged his Government's help by announcing that Russia would postpone $635 million of payments on Ukraine's debt to Russia, which he placed at $2.7 billion, against $4.3 billion of total Ukrainian debt.
Mr. Kozyrev's presence was seen as an effort to bolster Russia's demands for full G-7 membership. As he put it in comments to reporters: "The G-7 should become the "G-8."
Like Canada and the United States, Ukraine and Russia are each other's biggest trading partners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE; CANADA; RUSSIA; UKRAINE (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); APPROVALS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%); 

PERSON: KUCHMA, LEONID (PRIME MIN); KOZYREV, ANDREI (MIN) ; FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



677 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Fiery Volcano In Colombia Spewing Gold

BYLINE: By SANDRA BLAKESLEE 

 BODY:
A volcano in Colombia is spewing more than a pound of gold each day into the atmosphere, a scientist said yesterday. He said the volcano was also depositing 45 pounds of gold a year into the rocks lining its crater.
"I expect there will be a rush to stake claims in this volcano," said the scientist, Dr. Fraser Goff, a geologist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. Dr. Goff made the discovery at the Galeras volcano in the Colombian Andes. 
 While gold is sometimes found in extinct volcanoes, Dr. Goff said, the Galeras volcano is venting commercial amounts of gold from its fiery top. This is the first time scientists have detected visible gold particles in an active volcano.
It is not known how much gold the volcano has produced since it began forming more than 500,000 years ago, Dr. Goff said. He presented his findings at the annual meeting of the Geological Society of America in Seattle.
In January 1993 the Galeras volcano erupted, killing six scientists who were taking samples from its crater.
Most of the world's biggest gold deposits, like those found in South Africa, were formed when ancient gold-bearing rocks -- ultimately volcanic in origin -- were eroded by streams, causing the gold to be concentrated in alluvial deposits called placers, said Dr. Don Noble, an economic geologist at the Mackay School of Mines at the University of Nevada in Reno. But now that these deposits are being depleted by mining, he said, prospectors are paying more attention to lesser amounts of gold found in extinct volcanoes. "People are running all over Peru looking" for such deposits, Dr. Noble said. Gold now sells for about $390 an ounce.
But he added: "I doubt that active volcanoes can be mined. They would be too hot and dangerous."
Magma released from the earth's interior has many components, Dr. Noble said, including gold.
As an expert on the composition of magmatic fluids coming out of volcanoes, Dr. Goff collects water from hot springs, cold springs, river water and rainwater for comparison. On the day of the eruption last year he was taking fluid samples on the volcano's flank and escaped injury.
A week later, Dr. Goff said in a telephone interview, he and his colleagues were sampling gas vents in a deep river canyon west of the summit. "A guide joked, 'Do you want to look at some gold?' " he said.
Dr. Goff said he picked up a few samples and later cut them into wafer-thin slices. "By God, there was gold in it, quite a bit of gold," he said. "The fragments had tiny visible nuggets."
Dr. Goff estimated that the gold vein, which is near the base of the volcano, is at least 10 feet wide. Its length and depth are not yet known.
Another week later, the volcano quieted and Dr. Goff and his team went back to the crater to continue their research. "We started finding different amounts of gold in different samples," Dr. Goff said. The gases and fluids contained about 40 parts of gold per billion. Some explosion fragments contained a concentration of about 2.5 grams of gold, or 0.081 ounces, a ton, equal to that found in some commmercial gold mines.
The vein pointed out by the guide at the base of the mountain held the equivalent of 0.714 ounces of gold per mined ton, a very respectable amount, Dr. Goff said. One chunk in this deposit was high-grade "bonanza gold," with about 8.8 ounces per ton, he said.
Asked why Galeras seems to be producing so much gold, Dr. Goff said, "Maybe it's a sweet spot."
The fact that active volcanoes produce gold is not that surprising, Dr. Noble said. Significant quantities of gold are also being found along mid-ocean ridges, where so-called "black smokers" emit magma from beneath the ocean floor. Such spots are loaded with minerals, he said.
Access to the Galeras site is strictly controlled by the local authorities and Colombian geologists.

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of the Galeras Volcano.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (70%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (75%); RENO, NV, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%); GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%); GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; GALERAS (VOLCANO); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (70%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (75%); RENO, NV, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: VOLCANOES; GOLD GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); MINING ENGINEERING (78%); PHYSICS (78%); GOLD MINING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GOFF, FRASER (DR); BLAKESLEE, SANDRA FRASER GOFF (95%); DON NOBLE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



678 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Judge Halts Shift of Welfare Supervisors

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

 BODY:
A Federal District Court judge ruled yesterday that New York City cannot go forward with its plans to slash the number of supervisors in its welfare centers until it convinces him it will do a better job of providing poor people with benefits in a timely fashion.
The city had intended to begin redeploying about 30 percent of the 583 supervisors on Tuesday, city officials said. But Judge Charles P. Sifton, of the Eastern District in Brooklyn, called a halt to the redeployment yesterday and ordered the city to submit a plan to him specifying how it will meet Federal and state mandates to provide welfare recipients with their benefits. 
 City officials said that they have not yet decided whether to appeal the ruling, but it clearly came as a blow to the Giuliani administration's plans to quickly move forward with deep cuts in the city's social services bureaucracy.
"We're obviously disappointed with the results," said Thomas C. Crane, chief of general litigation in the City Corporation Counsel's office.
The city has been hamstrung since this summer in its efforts to redeploy hundreds of welfare workers because of suits filed by Legal Services of New York City, the Legal Aid Society and the New York Legal Assistance Group. In another of those cases, Justice Ira Gammerman, of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, on Wednesday ordered another postponement of city plans to redeploy supervisors until he makes a ruling in the case before him. Legal Aid lawyers said the case involved about 200 supervisors.
"There's a real concern on the city's part in the court interjecting itself in city decisions when the city has a full view of the economic pie and how to divvy it up in response to the budget crisis," said Vincent Dorazio, an assistant corporation counsel. "The court doesn't have the big picture."
In the case before Judge Sifton, attorneys for Legal Services and Legal Aid contended that the city was often taking months to increase benefits to people who have additional children or to provide people with the emergency aid to pay back rent, electricity bills or replace furniture lost in a fire.
One of the plaintiffs, Geraldine Brown, 41, a mother of two girls, had gone to a welfare center in Brooklyn in May seeking emergency aid to pay Con Edison so her electricity would not be cut off. She went back again eight days later seeking $486 to pay back rent.
The city said it had no record of her requests and did not issue the emergency payments until 51 days after the original request, rather than within 48 hours as required.
The judge wrote that the city's treatment of Ms. Brown reflected "callous treatment" and supports the contention that the city failed to comply with Federal and state requirements for emergency assistance.
Marc Cohan, an attorney with South Brooklyn Legal Services, said, "We're extremely gratified that the court recognize Federal and state legal mandates were and are being violated and that further staff reductions would exacerbate the problem."
The Giuliani administration contends that their plans for redeployment will enable them to meet those same Federal mandates. While reducing the supervisory staff sharply, the city had plans to increase the number of front-line eligibility workers in the units in question in the litigation from 2,393 at the beginning of this fiscal year to slightly more than 3,000 by year's end.
But the judge was apparently not convinced that the city's plan was adequate to do the job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (52%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); LEGAL SERVICES NYC (55%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); LEGAL SERVICES NYC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); LEGAL SERVICES NYC (55%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); LEGAL SERVICES NYC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JUDGES (90%); LEGAL AID (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); APPEALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W; SIFTON, CHARLES P (JUDGE) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



679 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: P.& G. Sues Bankers Trust Over Swap Deal

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
The Procter & Gamble Company yesterday sued the Bankers Trust Company over a complex financial transaction that caused P.& G., the Cincinnati consumer products company, to take a $102 million loss in April.
The P.& G. suit is similar to another filed against Bankers Trust last month by Gibson Greetings Inc., also of Cincinnati, which asserted that Bankers Trust misrepresented the risks of several interest rate swaps, a common form of a broad and growing category of financial deals known as derivatives. 
 Procter's suit is much narrower than Gibson's, which claimed that Bankers Trust, which is based in New York, should never have let it engage in such risky deals. Procter, by contrast, says it fully understood that it could lose money from the deal if interest rates moved in the wrong direction.
"The issue here is Bankers Trust's selling practices," Edwin L. Artzt, P.& G.'s chairman, said in a statement.
"There is a notion that end users of derivatives must be held accountable for what they buy," Mr. Artzt added. "We agree completely, but only if the terms and risks are fully and accurately disclosed," he said.
In the suit filed in United States District Court in Cincinnati, P.& G. asserts that Bankers Trust wrongly offered assurances that Procter's losses could be limited if it wanted to get out of the deal, as it ultimately did. The company's central contention is that Bankers Trust did not properly explain the potential cost of getting out.
Bankers Trust, in response, called its dealings with Procter "legal, proper and appropriate" and it denied that the bank ever promised that it could limit Procter's losses.
"We did not and could not represent in advance the cost to end these transactions prematurely," said Douglas Kidd, a spokesman for Bankers Trust. That, he said, "necessarily would have to be based on the market when such a request is made."
The suit seeks $130 million in compensatory damages and unspecified punitive damages.
Derivatives are contracts with terms that are derived from some underlying asset or index. Swaps typically involve cash payments between a corporation and a derivatives dealer, often a bank. They vary with the movements of interest rates and are most often used by companies to change borrowing from fixed interest rates to floating terms, or vice versa.
Last October, Procter was looking to replace a swap transaction relating to $200 million in debt that was scheduled to expire under which it paid a below-market interest rate. With interest rates then at the lowest level in two decades, Procter faced the prospect of accepting less attractive terms to extend the arrangement. Bankers Trust proposed a complex alternative, the suit said, which Procter agreed to on Nov. 2.
But the transaction held a risk. After six months, the rate that Procter would pay would be raised by a "spread" derived by a complex formula based on the yield of a five-year Treasury bond and the price of the 30-year bond.
The company acknowledged that it understood it was selling an option on bonds -- in effect, receiving a payment up front, known as a premium, in return for promising to buy back the bond at a fixed price. That could represent a substantial loss if rates were to rise and bond prices to fall.
Procter said that it was willing to take this risk because of assurances offered by Bankers Trust that it could protect P.& G. against any further losses at any point during the deal. Like all dealers in financial products that are not readily traded on public exchanges, Bankers Trust will generally buy back its derivatives from clients, at whatever it feels the current market price is.
The crux of Procter's complaint is its assertion that the bank, after Procter repeatedly asked it to describe what would happen to the cost of ending the deal if interest rates became much more volatile, insisted that any changes "would not have a significant effect on P.& G.'s position."
When the Federal Reserve began to raise interest rates in February, Procter found the cost of locking in rates had soared, requiring it to pay a staggering 14.12 percent above the normal borrowing costs -- or commercial paper rate -- for established companies. In the next four and a half years, P.& G. says, that will cost the company an extra $130 million.
The company also lost money an another swap with Bankers Trust that involved German marks that was not involved in the suit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (95%); PG (NYSE) (95%); AM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (95%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (95%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; BANKERS TRUST CO; GIBSON GREETINGS INC PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (95%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (90%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; BANKERS TRUST CO; GIBSON GREETINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS) COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL EDWIN L ARTZT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



680 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Cuba Seem to Make Little Headway on Refugee Issue

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Oct. 27

 BODY:
The United States and Cuba have wrapped up talks here on immigration issues, making little apparent headway on the status of thousands of Cuban refugees being held in American internment camps.
Officials of both countries described the three days of talks that ended Wednesday night as a largely satisfactory review of issues raised on carrying out the agreement they signed on Sept. 9 to end a monthlong flood of Cubans from the island. 
 But Cuban officials also complained about what they called recent "unilateral" moves to release some of the captive refugees, and about slow action by the United States on its pledge to grant at least 20,000 immigrant visas to Cubans each year.
The two sides also differed sharply over economic sanctions imposed on Cuba by the Clinton Administration during the crisis set off by President Fidel Castro's decision to allow Cubans to leave freely on rafts, participants in the talks said.
The penalties restrict American travel to Cuba and prohibit Cuban-Americans from sending money and other help to relatives and friends there. Those remittances -- estimated to total anywhere from $250 million to $500 million a year -- are an important source of hard currency for a Cuban economy that has been strapped for cash since the demise of the Communist-bloc trading system five years ago.
Cuban officials argued that because the sanctions had been a response to the exodus, they had no place now that the migration problem was under control. American officials said they had refused to discuss the matter, saying it was not on their agenda.
"They have taken on a life of their own," an American official said of the sanctions, which were initially described by United States officials as a political payoff to anti-Castro Cuban-American groups for their support of an end to 35-year policy of granting asylum to all Cuban refugees. "It's not tied to immigration anymore."
With similar countervailing pressures at play over the fate of more than 30,000 Cubans being held at American military bases in Panama and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, United States officials said they had not even discussed with Cuban negotiators the possibility of letting the refugees apply for visas from the internment camps.
Cuban-American groups seeking asylum for the refugees have demanded that the Administration at least waive a requirement that the refugees return to Havana to fill out their immigration paperwork. On Tuesday, Cuban-American lawyers who are suing the United States Government to block the refugees' repatriation won an order from a Federal judge holding up at least temporarily the departure of a flight that was to bring 23 Cubans here from Guantanamo.
So far, only 42 of the refugees have returned voluntarily, and some American officials have raised questions about the Cuban Government's willingness to accept them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); 

COMPANY: REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (59%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (59%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IMMIGRATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LITIGATION (68%); CURRENCIES (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); JUDGES (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



681 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CONNECTICUT;
The Great Debate Debate: Hopefuls Clash on Oratory

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FARMINGTON, Conn., Oct. 27

 BODY:
Continuing one of the most grueling debate schedules in the nation, the four candidates for governor of Connecticut took one another on twice today -- a sort of day-night double-header -- staking out opposing positions on whether to eliminate the central legacy of Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s administration -- the state income tax.
The debate this afternoon again drew attention to a domestic dispute in April between the front-runner, John G. Rowland, the Republican candidate, and his former wife. 
 For 10 minutes of the hourlong debate here, the candidates discussed whether character should be an issue in the election, and Mr. Rowland's opponents accused him of using his influence to block the release of a police report about the incident.
The controvery did not come up in the debate this evening. In both events, questions about fiscal policies and political advertising dominated.
Mr. Rowland and Tom Scott, an independent candidate, continued to call for eliminating the income tax, while the Democrat, State Comptroller William E. Curry Jr., said he would retain it. He also said he would institute ambitious new initiatives, like guaranteeing a college education for every qualified student -- without raising taxes.
A fourth candidate, Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark, of Mr. Weicker's A Connecticut Party, argued that the state should maintain its present course and not jeopardize a fragile economic recovery.
Asked this afternoon what new programs he would introduce as governor, Mr. Rowland, remarked: "God forbid. I don't think we need any more new programs," and later warned that voters should be "fearful" of "tax-and-spend liberals" like Mr. Curry who promise new initiatives.
Mr. Curry shot back that Mr. Rowland was "caricaturing" him unfairly as a liberal, and added: "It's not my record, John. You know that. I know that. The people of the state who are about to elect me governor -- much to your chagrin -- know that."
This evening, Mr. Rowland and Mr. Curry clashed again over the attack ads each campaign has run.
Mr. Curry called an ad that accuses him of mismanagement of his office because of $638 million in overdrafts, "patently false," noting that the auditors' report that cited the problem had concluded that he had no other alternative if the bills were to be paid.
In turn, Mr. Rowland said that Mr. Curry's commercial suggesting that he had violated the law by "bouncing" 108 checks in the House Bank during his three terms in Congress was misleading. "The Hartford Courant said, 'Curry distorts the record,' " Mr. Rowland said.
In contrast to the campaigns in New York and New Jersey, where some candidates have resisted debates, today's debates were the ninth and 10th in the campaign. The number of debates has drawn criticism from some political leaders.
"How do you spell ridiculous? " said John Mastropietro, the chairman of the state Republican Party. "D-E-B-A-T-E-S.
"After the first few, the candidates know exactly what is going to be said by the other person, and no new ground is broken. It's ludicrous, a bunch of people trying their best not to make a mistake."
Roy Occhiogrosso, a spokesman for the Curry campaign, called the number of debates "obscene" and said the debates had taken time from other activities.
But both Mrs. Groark and Mr. Scott, a conservative Republican who left the party because he considers Mr. Rowland too moderate, praised the debates as an opportunity to show voters the sharp differences among the candidates.
The race remains volatile, with many voters still undecided, and with Mr. Rowland's lead having narrowed over the last few months.
A poll by The Courant and the University of Connecticut's Roper Institute for Social Inquiry released on Tuesday showed that 36 percent of the respondents planned to vote for Mr. Rowland, 28 percent for Mr. Curry, 13 percent for Mrs. Groark and 8 percent for Mr. Scott.
The poll of 520 registered voters has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points.
The poll suggested that Mr. Rowland is having trouble winning the support of women. He has been embroiled in a controversy over his opposition to releasing police records about the dispute with his ex-wife.
The poll showed that Mr. Rowland's favorability rating among women had dropped substantially. He is perceived favorably by 40 percent and unfavorably by 35 percent, compared with last month's 45 percent favorable and 20 percent unfavorable.
While Mr. Rowland has argued that making the records public would be unfair to his three children, Mrs. Rowland said this week that she favors releasing them. The matter is tangled in legal proceedings, and it is unlikely to be resolved before the election on Nov. 8.
This afternoon, Mr. Rowland's opponents took him to task for blocking the release of the report.
Asked whether character was an important issue for voters to consider, Mr. Rowland brought up the argument with his ex-wife and said it was not relevant.
"The press had gone over the line" in requesting personal information, he said, and was turning the whole incident into a "soap opera."
All three of his opponents then lashed into him, contending that Mr. Rowland had used his influence with the Middlebury Police Department, the Middlebury Town Attorney and a judge who issued a restraining order preventing the State Freedom of Information Commission from releasing the report.
Both the Town Attorney and the police chief are supporters of Mr. Rowland.
Mr. Scott remarked: "I've said many times that I don't care what's in that report. What I object to, however, is the abuse of power and privilege."
And Mr. Curry said: "The law here couldn't be any clearer. The law has to be followed. If you're the average Joe in a situation like this, you have to abide by the law. You don't use the process of government for your own personal ends."
This evening, Mr. Rowland agressively attacked Mr. Curry on the issue of the death penalty. He said that Mr. Curry had voted against the death penalty as a state legislator in 1979, and noted that Mr. Curry had offered ambiguous responses to questions about whether he was prepared to push for a tougher penalty.
"What is your position?" Mr. Rowland asked.
An exasperated Mr. Curry, who has repeatedly said that he has supported the death penalty for more than a decade, answered, "How much of your time do you want to spend distorting other people's record?"
"I just want your answer," Mr. Rowland replied.
 
 
In Their Own Words
JOHN G. ROWLAND
The gubernatorial candidates were asked yesterday afternoon what they would do to if a longtime Connecticut company threatened to leave the state unless it received millions of dollars in tax breaks, grants and loans. Only Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark defended the current system.
" Rather than giving particular incentives and particular grants to particular companies, let's make it cheaper, less expensive for everyone to do business here in the state of Connecticut by cutting taxes, cutting spending, reforming the welfare system and changing the attitudes about how we deal with businesses, small and large. "
 
TOM SCOTT
" The Department of Economic Development in Connecticut is completely out of control. It has a policy which constitutes corporate welfare, particularly for the largest corporations in Connecticut. It's a bad policy. It doesn't reflect true entrepreneurship in this state. What we have to do is level the playing field. We have the third-highest corporate income tax in America, at 11.5 percent. My economic revival plan would reduce that to 8 percent over three years as an inducement for companies to stay here and to come here and to expand here."
 
EUNICE S. GROARK
 "What we have to do is to make sure that we keep jobs in Connecticut - not at any price, but to make sure that our people come first. It's not corporate welfare. There is a paybackto Connecticut, both in the income tax, which Mr. Scott and Mr. Rowland would like to get rid, of but also in property taxes for cities and towns across Connecticut.
 
WILLIAM E. CURRY Jr.
 "I have to disagree with Eunice. It's a fundamental policy difference. You've reserved a half a billion dollars in bonding capacity for economic development in this state. The recipient companies employ fewer people here today that when we started doling out the money. Only a small, small fraction of the money goes to the smallest businesses. We need to be making micro-loans at 10 and 20 times the scale we have, at a minimum to those businesses. That's were the real credit crunch remains."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John G. Rowland, left, Republican candidate for governor in Connecticut, sparred with Tom Scott, an independent challenger, at a debate yesterday, one of several such encounters that has animated the current campaign, and aroused the ire of some of the state's political leaders.; As Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark looks on, William Curry stresses a point yesterday at a debate, one of two debates that continued one of the most grueling political debate schedules in the nation. (Photographs by Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; ROWLAND, JOHN G; SCOTT, TOM; GROARK, EUNICE S (LT GOV); CURRY, WILLIAM JOHN G ROWLAND (95%); WILLIAM E CURRY JR (88%); EUNICE S GROARK (56%); TOM SCOTT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



682 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Market Bounces Back as Dow Jumps 26.92

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks advanced yesterday, after five sessions of losses in which the Dow Jones industrial average fell 88 points, or 2.2 percent.
The Dow jumped 26.92 points yesterday, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 3,875.15. The increase in prices, moreover, was spread across the board, with the Standard & Poor's 500 index up 3.23 points, to 465.85, the Nasdaq composite index up 4.23 points, to 767.47, and the American Stock Exchange market value index up 1.56 points, to 455.09. 
 "The whole market picked up strength as the day went on because the bond market and the dollar firmed," said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers. "It showed that portfolio managers are super-sensitive to earnings."
Some traders, however, were still cautious, pending today's initial estimate of gross domestic product for the third quarter. The second-quarter's advance in the G.D.P. was 4.1 percent. If the third-quarter data show another strong advance, the chances increase that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again soon.
 "If the growth surprises the consensus of economists by being meaningfully below 2.8 percent, you'll probably see a 30-to-50 point upward move in the Dow on Friday," Mr. Stovall said. "And if it is significantly above 2.8 percent, there could be a 30-to-50 point downward move."
The New York Stock Exchange volume moved slightly higher to 327.8 million shares, from 322.6 million shares on Wednesday. Advancing stocks topped declining issues, 1,257 to 933.
The airline sector finished higher, powered by good profit reports from UAL, the parent of United Airlines, and from Delta Air Lines. UAL rose 3 3/4, to 89, and Delta increased 2 1/2, to 49 1/4. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, rose 1 7/8, to 52 3/4.
With crude oil for December delivery up 20 cents to $18.15, oil issues maintained their upward trend. For example, Mobil advanced 1 1/8, to 85 and ARCO rose 2 1/8, to 108 1/4. American depository receipts of British Petroleum gained 1 1/8, to 82.
Hercules, whose third-quarter earnings of $1.65 a share topped analysts' estimates of $1.46 a share, surged 6 3/8, to 106 7/8. Pennzoil, which agreed to settle a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service for $454 million, increased 2 3/8, to 52. The American depository receipts of Petroleum Geo-Services, which said that quarterly earnings soared 67 percent, gained 1 5/8, to 22 5/8. And Dow Chemical, whose profits more than doubled, rose 1/2, to 73 5/8.
Amid these gains were a group of household names that fell sharply during the session. Xerox closed at 102, off 6 3/8; Fisher Scientific at 27 3/8, off 6 3/8, and Pitney-Bowes at 32 3/4, off 7/8.
Other decliners included Starter, which announced that it would probably report a fourth-quarter loss and dropped 7/8, to 6 5/8. Lazer-Tron moved down 1 1/8, to 12 3/4, despite higher sales and earnings, because some analysts expected better results. John Alden dropped 2 5/8, to 31 1/4, after reporting that earnings declined to 89 cents a share from 98 cents a share. And Continental Medical System, faced with a Justice Department investigation of employees, fell 1 1/4, to 6 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (65%); BP (NYSE) (64%); BP (LSE) (64%); DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%); PGS (OSL) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (65%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (64%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (50%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (50%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (50%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) DELTA AIR LINES INC (65%); BP PLC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%); PETROLEUM GEO-SERVICES ASA (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (89%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); CHEMICALS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TRENDS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ROBERT H STOVALL (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



683 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Stable With G.D.P. Due Today

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved slightly higher early yesterday, with the market holding on to most of its gains as many investors moved to the sidelines ahead of today's third-quarter report on gross domestic product.
The 30-year bond rose 4/32 to a price of 93 27/32 for a yield of 8.05 percent, down from 8.06 percent on Wednesday. Shorter bill rates were unchanged. 
 Many analysts have recently revised upward their estimates of third-quarter growth, although some still expect moderating growth in the economy.
Elliott Platt, director of economic research for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said, "We are expecting a relatively weak G.D.P. figure of 2.2 percent for the third quarter of the year, after having posted growth rates of 3.3 percent and 4.1 percent during the first two quarters, respectively."
Another factor affecting the market is a looming supply. Next Wednesday, the Treasury will make its quarterly refunding announcement. Market expectations are for a $28 billion package with $17 million in three-year notes and $11 in 10-year notes, unchanged from last quarter. In addition, the market is expecting the Treasury to sell $10 billion in cash management bills to make up for the lack of a long bond this quarter.
Outside markets were mixed yesterday and had little influence on trading in bonds.
Prices of Government securities oscillated for the most part yesterday, dealers reported. Many dealers say they think that the market has priced in a 3 percent gain in the gross domestic product but that the market will be vulnerable to a surprise if the number is on the high side.
The only report released yesterday was the initial weekly unemployment claims for the period that ended on Oct. 22. Claims fell 1,000, to 323,000, in line with economists' expectations.
While the report did little to move the market, it suggested that the labor market was still healthy and that the unemployment rate might keep falling. The four-week moving average for jobless claims, considered a less volatile gauge of employment conditions, rose to 323,750 last week from 320,500 in the previous week.
The Conference Board's help-wanted index slipped to 117 in September from 119 in August. The Conference Board said hiring was likely to regain momentum in the last months of 1994 and the first half of 1995. To some, this suggests that the labor market is healthy, but more important, that job growth has probably moderated to a more sustainable pace in recent months.
In the corporate debt market, Telefonica de Argentina S.A. sold its first-ever debt issue in the United States yesterday, drawing a surplus of buyers.
The telephone company, one of two created from the privatization of Argentina's telephone system in 1990, offered $300 million of 10-year notes through underwriters led by Salomon Brothers.
The notes, which cannot be retired early by the telephone company, are rated B-1 by Moody's Investors Serviced and BB- by Standard & Poor's, the same rating issued to the country of Argentina. Rarely do the ratings agencies give a foreign company a higher rating than the country.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent. (Srouce: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TAR (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONICA DE ARGENTINA SA (61%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); PRICES OF TREASURY (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); PRIVATIZATION (64%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



684 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises a Bit as Traders Await U.S. Economic Data

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most leading currencies yesterday, but many traders were reluctant to buy aggressively ahead of United States economic growth figures scheduled for release today.
Many traders fear that the preliminary report on the United States gross domestic product in the third quarter could show stronger-than-expected growth and reinforce inflationary expectations that have taken the dollar to a record low. 
 A burst of inflation would erode the value of dollar-based assets, reducing their appeal to foreign investors and consequently the demand for dollars to buy them. Worries that inflation may accelerate has also pushed stocks and bonds in the United States lower recently.
"No one has a real appetite to take a position going into the number tomorrow on fears of inflation," Paul Farrell, vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank, said of the gross domestic product data.
Economists surveyed said they expected the gross domestic product to show a 2.8 percent rate of advance in the third quarter, while inflation, as measured by the implicit price deflator in the report, is expected to rise 2.9 percent.
Leon Panetta, the White House chief of staff, said yesterday that he expected the G.D.P. figures to show a "strong economy."
While his comments did little to rouse the dollar, traders said the remark did reinforce fears that the American economy could be growing at an inflationary rate.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar gained against the German mark, the Japanese yen and the British pound. The dollar was quoted at 1.4987 marks, up from 1.4909 marks on Wednesday, and at 96.99 yen, up slightly from 96.82. The pound fell to $1.6360 from $1.6382.
Speculation this week that the United States and its allies are prepared to intervene in the foreign exchange market and buy dollars if the currency plunges helped to bolster the dollar.
Separately, the Bundesbank said yesterday that it would leave official interest rates unchanged. Dealers said the decision was widely expected and prompted little reaction in the currency market.
In other currency trading in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.2537 Swiss francs, up from 1.2429 francs on Wednesday, and at 5.1325 French francs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (56%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (56%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (56%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



685 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Index of 21 Top Commodities Climbs to a 4-Month High

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
A key commodity index that economists look to as a barometer of inflation rose to a four-month high yesterday, bolstered by gains in crude oil, cotton, corn, soybeans, cocoa and pork prices.
The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities rose 1.66 points, to 234.96, its highest level since June 17. 
 "The fact that today's gains were broadly based reinforces the perception the U.S. economy is growing strongly, which could translate into upward price pressure for industrial commodities," said Bernard Savaiko, an analyst for Paine Webber.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil prices rose on expectations that the explosive rally in gasoline prices in the last week would increase demand at refineries.
"Its strength first hinged on gasoline but now it has a life of its own," said Gerald Samuels, managing director of ARB Oil.
Crude oil for December delivery gained 20 cents, to $18.15 a barrel. The November gasoline contract edged down 0.03 cent, to 54.68 cents a gallon, and November heating oil declined 0.08 cent, to 49.40 cents.
Gasoline prices have risen 25 percent since late September, with recent gains linked to the ruptures of two pipelines near Houston and subsequent supply shortages in the New York harbor market.
Copper prices continued to rise, reaching four-year highs with December up 1.35 cents, to $1.2395 a pound, on the Commodity Exchange of New York. The metal has been in demand because it is widely used for industrial uses during an economic recovery.
On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, pork belly prices rose sharply. Pork consumption has been strong, offsetting the heavy hog slaughter pace of two million head a week or more. analysts said.
"We have been using a tremendous amount of bellies," said Julia Bussie of A. G. Edwards, noting the corresponding low number of bellies entering frozen storage.
The February pork belly contract jumped the 2-cent limit, to 41.8 cents a pound, and December hogs gained 1 cent, to 34.75 cents.
Soybean prices rose, largely because of surging prices for soybean oil amid heavy global demand. November soybeans rallied 4.5 cents, to $5.525 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; COTTON; GRAIN; SOYBEANS; COCOA; LIVESTOCK; PRICES AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); PORK (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); SOYBEAN OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); MEATS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); COPPER MARKETS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



686 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Initial Jobless Claims Decline

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 1,000 last week, according to a report released today.
The Labor Department said initial jobless claims totaled 323,000 in the week that ended Saturday, down from a revised 324,000 for the previous week. The Government initially reported that 326,000 claims had been filed in the week that ended on Oct. 15. The numbers are adjusted to account for seasonal fluctuations in hiring. 
 It was the first back-to-back decline in four weeks. The number of initial claims was up in the first two weeks of October after dropping every week in September.
A more closely watched indicator, the Labor Department's four-week moving average of claims, was at 323,750, up 3,250 from the previous week. The increase followed a sharp upward revision in the previous report. It was the third consecutive week that the four-week average increased.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



687 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: The Works To Watch At Auction

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
LIKE traders who compulsively watch the stock market to see where the smart buys are, collectors, dealers and curators peruse Sotheby's and Christie's catalogues in hopes of discovering either bargains or great works they haven't seen on the market before. This will be especially true in the next two weeks as the important round of Impressionist, modern and contemporary art auctions takes place in New York.
This fall's sales, which begin on Tuesday at Sotheby's, offer a smattering of everything. But taken as a whole, the artworks, thought to be worth more than $140 million, are nothing to crow about. While the offerings, which go on view starting this weekend, include works by masters like Monet and van Gogh, Warhol and Lichtenstein, the sales are generally thinner than they have been in years. Gone is the glamour of the $50 million masterpiece that epitomized the boom years. Instead, these sales reflect the way the auction world used to be 15 years ago: a serious arena for trading art. 
 To the credit of both auction houses, each has taken a conservative approach, trying not to give in to stubborn sellers who demand unrealistically high estimates. They have also tried not to pad sales with too much middle-market merchandise, the kind that was once relegated to the lower-price day sales. "We both said after the last sales we would tread very carefully," said Christopher Burge, the chairman of Christie's in New York. "We've made a conscious effort to offer salable things and not stretch the market with aggressively priced works that have been offered around before."
Not that either Sotheby's or Christie's had much choice in its offerings. After poor sales in May, sellers who can wait do, until they are confident prices will go up. As a result, both auction houses have been at the mercy of fate. The age-old reasons art finds its way to auction -- death, divorce and debt -- still keep the business afloat.
"It's been difficult to get anything for sale," said David Nash, the director of Impressionist and modern art at Sotheby's. "There is a perception that the recession is ending and that things are better, but most people are still putting off selling, which is an impediment to putting together a crackerjack sale. There are a few good things out there, but not many."
Price is on everyone's mind. "The most competition is going to be for the lower-valued works," said Michael Findlay, the senior director of Impressionist and modern art at Christie's in New York. "Art priced in the $300,000-to-$400,000 range will probably get spirited bidding. Anything over $1 million, regardless of quality, may not be so easy going."
The number of multi-million-dollar paintings up for sale this fall is small. In contemporary art, there are fewer than a handful. The paintings on the covers of both Sotheby's and Christie's contemporary-art catalogues are the most expensive works in their sales. They are also exceptional examples of Pop art. "Pop is the most undervalued section of the market," said Anthony Grant, who heads Sotheby's contemporary-art department in New York. "It was the most inflated in the 80's. But just as it went straight up, it also came straight down."
 
A Test of the Market
 The cover of Sotheby's catalogue, Roy Lichtenstein's "I'm Sorry," from 1965-66, depicts one of the artist's famous comic-strip-style images of a prototypical blonde. (This time she's shedding a tear.) The painting is being sold by Holly Solomon, the SoHo dealer, and has been in her private collection since 1966. While Sotheby's wasn't willing to print an estimate in its catalogue, Mr. Grant says he is telling those who ask that he believes the painting will sell for $2 million to $2.5 million.
The auction of the Pop artwork on the cover of Christie's contemporary-art catalogue will no doubt provide the most dramatic moment of the next two weeks. It shows one of the best-known images in contemporary art, the face of Marilyn Monroe. But this isn't just any portrait of the movie star: it's the famous "Shot Red Marilyn," the brightly colored 1964 Warhol silk-screen that fetched $4.07 million at Christie's in New York in May 1989, at the height of the market. Now Masao Wanibuchi, a Tokyo-based tailor and collector, is selling the work. But he's willing to take a lot less than he paid for it. This time it is expected to fetch $2.5 million to $3 million, about 40 percent below its record price.
The silk-screen is one of several images that were stacked against a wall in Warhol's Factory in 1964 when a woman entered with two friends and a Great Dane and aimed a pistol at the movie star's forehead, shooting a hole through the stack of four Marilyns. Then she departed. (The bullet hole, above Marilyn's left eyebrow, was subsequently repaired by the artist.)
How "Marilyn" performs next week will be of great interest, and not just to Warhol collectors. Determining the value of Warhol's art has been at the center of a bitter legal battle between the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, the main beneficiary of the artist's estate, and Edward W. Hayes, the estate's former lawyer, who contends he is owed 2 percent of the value of the estate. Christie's has also been involved in the suit: it was hired to appraise the artist's estate, an appraisal that the judge, Surrogate Eve Preminger, said in a ruling had undervalued Warhol's work by nearly $300 million. Now Christie's valuations are about to be put to the harshest test of all: the art market. The outcome may speak volumes about how Warhol prices are holding up.
 
Cream of the Crop?
 Both contemporary-art sales have some interesting offerings and some impeccable provenances. Sotheby's is continuing to sell works from the collection of S. I. Newhouse Jr., the publishing magnate. Among them are Cy Twombly's "Untitled (Roma)," a classic gray-and-white blackboard painting from 1970. The auction house estimates it will bring $800,000 to $1.2 million. (It is considered risky to sell works the same year an artist is having an important exhibition, like Mr. Twombly's retrospective now at the Museum of Modern Art.) Mr. Newhouse is also selling Jasper Johns's "Screenpiece No. 3 (The Sonnets)," from 1968, estimated at $600,000 to $800,000.
Sotheby's is also selling a group of paintings and drawings that belonged to Harold Rosenberg, the critic and writer for The New Yorker, who died in 1978. Among the cream of his collection is Willem de Kooning's "Monumental Woman" (1953), a forceful charcoal study for the artist's Woman Paintings.
In addition to the Warhol, Christie's plum offerings are from the estate of Gerald S. Elliott, the Chicago lawyer, who died in March. Mr. Elliott had amassed significant holdings by American and European artists including Bruce Nauman, Donald Judd, Richard Serra and Anselm Kiefer. At his death, he left the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago the bulk of his collection. The estate is selling the rest. "What's unusual about this collection is the combination of intelligence and passion with which it was assembled," said Diane Upright, who heads Christie's contemporary-art department. Among the highlights is Frank Stella's "Ileana Sonnabend" (1963), a trapezoidal painting named for the SoHo dealer. It is expected to bring $40,000 to $600,000.
In the past, Sotheby's has been the most aggressive auction house, offering sellers a wide choice of financial arrangements. But this fall, Diana D. Brooks, who heads Sotheby's auctions worldwide, says Sotheby's has given no financing to any sellers in either the Impressionist and modern art sale or the contemporary-art sale. "Sometimes it's worth taking the risk," she said. "Sometimes it's not. I sleep a whole lot better at night this fall."
This season Christie's has the most estate property. But it has paid the price: the auction house has given sellers financing. It guaranteed the works from the estate of Alice Tully, the philanthropist, for example. (A guarantee is an agreed-upon minimum price paid by the auction house to the seller. If the art does not sell, it becomes the auction house's property.) While the auction house declined to comment on the specific amount, word circulating among art experts is that Christie's has guaranteed the Tully heirs considerably more than the $22 million low estimate for the entire estate, which includes art, jewelry, furniture and other objects.
One painting belonging to Miss Tully is the star offering in Christie's Impressionist and modern sale on Nov. 9. It is Monet's "Waterlilies" (1907). The round painting, in soft pastel hues, is estimated at $4 million to $6 million.
Another work with a special provenance is Brancusi's "Kiss," executed by the artist in Paris between 1907 and 1908. It is from the property of Blanchette Rockefeller and is expected to bring $900,000 to $1.2 million.
 
A Portrait, a Landscape
 Sotheby's Impressionist auction on Nov. 8 is less impressive. Its star painting is Modigliani's "Portrait of Jeanne Hebuterne," being sold by an unidentified South American collector. The 1919 portrait of the artist's pregnant mistress is estimated at $6 million. Another important work, Miro's "Woman in the Night" (1945), is being sold by Leslie Wexner, the chairman of the Limited, who bought the painting for $2.5 million in 1986 at Sotheby's in New York. This fall, Sotheby's estimates it will bring $3.5 million to $4.5 million.
Sotheby's is also selling van Gogh's "Wheat Field With Sheaves," one of a group of drawings done in 1888. It may bring $2 million to $3 million. Of less interest will be the four paintings by Tanguy that Sotheby's sold three years ago from the collection belonging to the Yaseen family of Harrison, N.Y. Each brought $247,500. Now they are back on the market with estimates of $175,000 to $225,000 each.
"I'm more optimistic about the market than our Impressionist sale shows," said Mrs. Brooks. "The buyers are out there, but they want everything to be just right."
 
 
Where and When
 Some of the artworks to be auctioned at Sotheby's and Christie's in Manhattan in the next few weeks will be on view beginning this weekend. Admission to viewings and to the afternoon sales is free. Reserved tickets, also free, are required for the evening sales at Sotheby's and Christie's.
Sotheby's is at 1334 York Avenue, at 72d Street. Ticket information: (212) 606-7171. General information: (212) 606-7000.
Christie's is at 502 Park Avenue, at 59th Street. Ticket and other information: (212) 546-1127.
Here is a schedule of viewing and sale hours.
 
Sotheby's
 
CONTEMPORARY ART, PARTS 1 AND 2. On view tomorrow and Monday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sunday, 1 to 5 P.M.; Tuesday, 10 A.M. to noon. Auction for Part 1: Tuesday at 7 P.M. Auction for Part 2: Tuesday at 10:15 A.M. and 2 P.M.
 
IMPRESSIONIST AND MODERN ART, PARTS 1 AND 2. On view Nov. 4, 5 and 7, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Nov. 6, 1 to 5 P.M.; Nov. 8, 10 A.M. to noon. Auction for Part 1: is Nov. 8 at 7 P.M. Auction for Part 2: Nov. 9 at 10:15 A.M. and 2 P.M.

Christie's
 
CONTEMPORARY ART FROM ESTATE OF GERALD S. ELLIOTT AND CONTEMPORARY ART, PARTS 1 AND 2. On view tomorrow, Monday and Tuesday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sunday, 1 to 5 P.M.; Wednesday, 10 A.M. to noon. Auctions: Elliott estate, Wednesday at 7 P.M. and Thursday at 10 A.M.; Contemporary Art, Part 1, Wednesday at 7:30 P.M.; Contemporary Art, Part 2, Thursday at 10:30 A.M.
 
IMPRESSIONIST AND MODERN PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS AND SCULPTURE, PART 1 AND 2, and PROPERTY FROM THE COLLECTION OF GERTRUDE BERNOUDY. On view Nov. 4, 5, 7 and 8, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Nov. 9, 10 A.M. to 2 P.M.; Nov. 6, 1 to 5 P.M. Auctions: Part 1, Nov. 9 at 7 P.M.; Part 2, Nov. 10 at 10 A.M. and 2 P.M.; Bernoudy Collection, Nov. 10 at 3:30 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Back on the market: Warhol's "Shot Red Marilyn" (1964). (Christie's New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); WARHOL'S FACTORY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S WARHOL'S FACTORY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (92%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL MARILYN MONROE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



688 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, and Off

BYLINE: By Donald G. McNeil Jr. 

 BODY:

The Drought of Leading Men
Lincoln Center Theater has dropped "Tonight at 8:30," a two-night cycle of seven Noel Coward one-act plays, from its Broadway plans this year. And why? Because New York isn't a big enough town to produce the right leading man. At least, not one who isn't committed to a bigger town called Hollywood.
"A handsome leading man over 40 -- that's the toughest assignment in the theater," said Andre Bishop, the theater's artistic director. "We already had Blythe Danner, Nancy Marchand and Simon Jones. But this needed someone in his mid-40's or older, attractive, who sings well, who dances, who can do English for real -- not a phony-baloney accent -- who can partner an actress as wonderful as Blythe Danner, and has a certain . . . um . . . Cowardian insouciance." 
 Whom did they talk to? "Oh, everyone from God down," said Mr. Bishop, careful to avoid hurting anyone's feelings.
Finally he said there were "eight or nine" actors who filled the bill, and that Kevin Kline would have been perfect, but that all had scheduling conflicts or couldn't make a five-month commitment at the roughly $1,000-a-week salary Lincoln Center was talking about.
"We retained the rights with the Coward estate," Mr. Bishop said, the regret in his voice obvious. "We'll do it eventually."
 
Metronome Humor
 Andrew Lloyd Webber was interviewed on stage at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Saturday -- at the Broadway-style ticket price of $30 -- and although he told stories full of self-deprecating humor, it became clear why he does not write musical comedy. His idea of comedy is so musical that, unless you have a degree from Juilliard, he has to poke your ribs black and blue with his elbow explaining the punchline.
For instance: "My favorite line in 'Phantom,' " he told Martin Gottfried, "is the repetiteur saying, 'Now, once again, if you please, Signor Piangi, after 7 . . . 5, 6, 7 . . .' "
A pause. "Meaning, do it in 7/8 time, as it's written."
He paused again. "I've only once heard a loud laugh at that one. And it turned out to be a rather famous conductor in the audience."
 
Neil Simon, Lost in Manhattan
 When Neil Simon snubbed Broadway last week, announcing that its economics would force him to produce his newest play Off Broadway, he also wrote a plot problem for himself. Although 1,000-seat Broadway theaters are available, most of the theaters of 450 or more seats, the size he wants, are booked, at least tentatively. (Needless to say, a theater owner offered the New York premiere of "London Suite" might break a contract -- or push his grandmother off a pier -- to get it.) The show could be shoe-horned into the season of an established company, but that's pretty disruptive.
As it turned out, there are plenty of offers out there. None have been accepted, and some weren't exactly what Emanuel Azenberg, Mr. Simon's producer, had in mind. "We got a movie theater," he said. "And a guy who had a couple of garages he said we could put together." Another had a big apartment and suggested rewriting the play so the audience could follow it from room to room. The oddest of the serious offers was of a collapsible 420-seat theater made of velvet-on-steel panels, supposedly by the same Soviet industrial group that built the Mir space station. The catch: it's in storage in a hangar in Russia.
 
Saving Money on Costumes
 In its vicious pan of "Hair" in 1968 as a phony, sell-out vision of hippie counter-culture, The East Village Other got off a line that might have been quoted in the ads, since it was what much of the excitement was about: "If you have never seen a nude boy before -- from the front! -- and you don't mind bringing a flashlight (suddenly the stage gets very, very dark), then go . . . "
Back then it was shocking: a brief moment of the cast standing there like kouri, and then everyone scurrying off in the blackout to get dressed.
Recently, a press release for "Automatic Telling" arrived with the note: "Contains full frontal nudity." The publicity agent later admitted it was partly a warning, partly a come-on.
One wonders why they bother. This is the season for wall-to-wall naked men on stages from Central Park to Broadway to Off Broadway. "Passion," "Automatic Telling" and "Killer Joe" have women naked in sex scenes and "Girl Gone" opens in a topless bar, but it's guys who are flaunting it in crowds and wisecracking about it. It's not shocking anymore. Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's tender, sometimes it's essential to the plot. And sometimes it isn't.
Terrence McNally's "Love! Valour! Compassion!," with its six gorgeous male bodies sunning in Dutchess County, is the season's "Sirens" for Playgirl subscribers (although the comic high point is the seventh, Nathan Lane, in a tiny apron). Paul Calderon, a boxer, towels off after a shower in "Blade to the Heat." There's a similar after-bath scene by a young man in "Les Parents Terribles," coming from London in the spring. Daniel Jenkins, in the Steven Spinella role in "Angels in America," strips for a medical exam, showing the wasting effects of AIDS.
And what were those poor guys doing skinny-dipping during one of the coldest Augusts on record in the Shakespeare-in-the-Park production of "The Two Gentlemen of Verona"? Helping sell free tickets, presumably, because they were echoed on the cover of the Playbill, an 1883 Thomas Eakins painting of bare-bottomed Victorian gents bathing that otherwise had nothing to do with Verona or Shakespeare.
What's going on? Why this year? George C. Wolfe, who directed "Blade" and "Angels" and, as head of the Papp Public Theater, oversaw "Two Gentlemen," is probably as responsible as anyone for the trend. "Nudity can disarm an audience," he said. "That's the idea, not to assault. In 'Blade,' you see Paul out of the shower after he's just lost his title. It's a stripping down; it reveals the frailty in the human flesh."
"What's fascinating," he went on, "is that now men are nude in these innocent situations, while for the women it's only in sexual ones."
Joe Mantello, the director of "Love! Valour!," echoed the "innocent flesh" idea: "I think it's just a happy coincidence that there are so many."
Is there a double standard operating? "The real double standard is in film," he said. "It's routine for an actress to be asked to bare her breasts for movies. But you can count on one hand the male actors who appear nude."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Theaters of War" -- Yolande Bavan is in "Voices From Sri Lanka," a play now at the Theater for the New City. The playwright, Toby Armour, began writing her one-acts about police killings and widows of assassinated politicians during a 1993 stint in Sri Lanka as a human rights observer. On Sunday, a suicide bomber killed 52 people there, including a presidential candidate, and Ms. Armour is putting herself at risk again. She flew there yesterday to be an unarmed escort for election monitors: "Where else can someone like myself, by merely being there, make someone feel less afraid?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TONIGHT AT 8:30 (PLAY)

COUNTRY: SRI LANKA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER THEATER

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: SRI LANKA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TICKET SALES (63%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR NOEL PIERCE COWARD (74%); BLYTHE KATHARINE DANNER (71%); KEVIN DELANEY KLINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



689 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Give President Credit for Restoring Tax Equity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
President Clinton has been criticized for waffling and wavering and providing ill-defined leadership, although his legislative accomplishments are actually quite impressive. One Clinton achievement that deserves but doesn't get much attention is the revival of progressive taxation, now reflected in a tax rate structure that begins at 15 percent and rises in four bracket-jumps to a top of nearly 40 percent. 
 President Reagan, who once denounced progressive taxation as a Marxist plot and contrary to the will of God, succeeded in 1986 in putting through a flat-tax structure under which, roughly speaking, individuals earning $30,000 a year paid tax on their last dollar of income at the same rate -- 28 percent -- as individuals earning 10 or 100 times more. This reversed an equitable feature of our tax law that had been in place virtually from the beginning of the income tax.
The Budget Act of 1993, enacted at President Clinton's urging despite a tidal wave of misinformation from its opponents, in effect restored this mildly redistributive device -- appropriately, in the name of fairness.
Faced with more dramatic domestic issues -- crime, health care, welfare reform -- should we care about our Federal tax structure? We should. As is well known, the distribution of national income has grown increasingly unequal over the last dozen years, at least in part as a consequence of the tax legislation that President Reagan put over on a gullible public.
We are constantly told that American voters are disaffected, that they suffer from a political malaise, that they no longer trust their political leaders, and so on. Surely one reason is a growing sense that economic progress has been for the few. Progressive taxation won't solve the problem. But it helps, both actually and as a symbol of our national ideals.
 
MARVIN A. CHIRELSTEIN
Professor of Law
Columbia University
New York, Oct. 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (97%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHIRELSTEIN, MARVIN A (PROF) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



690 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Give President Credit for Restoring Tax Equity;
Official Jobless Policy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Answering a news conference question on Oct. 21, President Clinton outlined his efforts to overcome the "loss of economic opportunity" by many citizens, according to your Oct. 22 transcript. He included moving people "from welfare to work," "bringing this economy back," creating jobs and establishing "community development banks and empowerment zones in our inner cities." 
 The President said nothing about the bipartisan policy to maintain an official unemployment rate of at least 6 percent in order to control inflation.
His own economic policies consider the present situation to be one of "full employment." If significant numbers of jobs are to be created in the inner cities, jobs will have to be lost elsewhere to maintain the desired unemployment rate.
Why does an otherwise sophisticated White House press corps never question Presidents about these policies, and why do headlines repeatedly praise job losses as an indication that inflation is under control?
 
FREDERICK C. THAYER
Pittsburgh, Oct. 22, 1994
The writer is a professor emeritus at the U. of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: GIVE PRESIDENT CREDIT (66%); PITTSBURGH GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC&INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (61%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC&INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (61%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INFLATION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); THAYER, FREDERICK C (PROF) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



691 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN;
Upstate, Pataki's New Message: Giuliani Endorsement Has Price

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y., Oct. 27

 BODY:
State Senator George E. Pataki's campaign allies suggested today that they would use Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's endorsement of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to their advantage, telling voters outside the city that Mr. Cuomo would have to pay Mr. Giuliani back with fiscal help to the city after the election.
As the governor's race focused on the split between New York City and upstate, Mr. Pataki campaigned from Albany to Syracuse to Binghamton, and Mr. Cuomo debated everyone except Mr. Pataki in Buffalo. 
 Mr. Pataki's campaign worked to retake control of a campaign that politicians say was shaken by the decision by Mr. Giuliani, a Republican, to go against his party and support Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat. Polls taken since that decision show the race tightening, but Mr. Pataki's supporters said that they could turn the endorsement back on Mr. Cuomo.
"Frankly, it plays into our hands in the suburbs and upstate," said State Senator George Bruno of Saratoga Springs, who appeared with Mr. Pataki in Albany. "Giuliani is looking for more money from the state and where is that money going to come from? There is only so much to go around."
Mr. Pataki, meanwhile, seized upon an old standby issue -- crime -- as he flew around the state to hammer home his support for the death penalty. He again and again blasted Mr. Cuomo's decision to grant clemency to a convicted murderer, Gary McGivern, and return another convicted killer, Thomas Grasso, to New York when he faced the death penalty in Oklahoma.
Mr. Pataki has pushed the crime issue hard ever since Mr. Giuliani endorsed Mr. Cuomo on Monday. The Cuomo campaign released a new ad today to counter some of those attacks, even as Mr. Giuliani continued to attack Mr. Pataki's tax cuts and planned to campaign for Mr. Cuomo upstate and in Brooklyn and Queens this weekend.
Three new polls, one released by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, another by Newsday and WABC-TV and a third conducted for The Daily News and WNBC-TV by Louis Harris & Associates, show Mr. Pataki's lead over Mr. Cuomo disappearing amid Mr. Cuomo's negative advertising and the heavy spending of the Independence Fusion candidate, B. Thomas Golisano.
The Newsday-WABC survey was the first major poll to show Mr. Cuomo ahead, with 43 percent of respondents supporting him and 36 percent supporting Mr. Pataki. The Harris poll, in the Friday issue of the Daily News, likewise showed 43 percent of those polled supporting Mr. Cuomo, with 42 percent for Mr. Pataki.
The Marist poll shows that the race has narrowed, with 37 percent of those polled supporting Mr. Pataki and 36 percent backing Mr. Cuomo. A month ago, a Marist poll showed Mr. Pataki leading by six percentage points, 44 to 38 percent. The poll showed Mr. Golisano receiving 8 percent of the vote. Marist did not ask voters about Mr. Golisano in September.
Lee M. Miringoff, the institute's director, said the salient point of the poll was that while Mr. Cuomo's support seems frozen, Mr. Pataki's numbers are slipping. "Mr. Pataki has reversed momentum," he said. "Nothing is moving toward Cuomo, just away from Pataki."
Mr. Miringoff said Mr. Cuomo's attack ads, coupled with the fact that most voters still have only hazy impressions of Mr. Pataki, had driven up Mr. Pataki's unfavorable ratings. "There is no reservoir of positive public opinion for him to fall back on," Mr. Miringoff said.
Mr. Pataki chose to emphasize his opponent's numbers rather than his own, saying that the Marist poll showed that after 12 years in office, Mr. Cuomo did not have the support of the majority of New Yorkers.
He also said that a vote for Mr. Golisano would be wasted, because, "There is no question in my mind that everyone in this room and voters in this state understand that next Jan. 1, either George Pataki or Mario Cuomo is going to be governor."
Mr. Pataki received a boost tonight with the endorsement of The New York Post. The endorsement, which had been expected, said Mr. Pataki "has succeeded in articulating a vision for the state."
At a public-television debate in Buffalo tonight, Mr. Cuomo traded mild barbs with Mr. Golisano, the Rochester millionaire whom polls show is drawing considerable support away from Mr. Pataki. . The Governor bridled at a chorus of suggestions that the state's economy and social fabric was falling apart.
"One gets the impression we're the only ones with a job in this state," Mr. Cuomo said, after listening to Mr. Golisano reel off statistics about job losses. He said he was amused with Mr. Golisano's complaints, wryly wondering how he had prospered so well in a state with such a terrible business climate.
The Pataki campaign has launched efforts on several fronts to win back support from Mr. Golisano upstate. At times, the effort has caused his campaign to send different messages to voters depending on where he was campaigning.
For instance, in radio advertisements that began running in some communities upstate earlier this week, Mr. Pataki attacks a Cuomo proposal to reduce utility rates in Long Island by having the state purchase the Long Island Electric Company. In the commercial, Mr. Pataki accuses Mr. Cuomo of wanting "to buy votes on Long Island by putting our children nine billion dollars further in debt" and denounces the proposal as "corporate welfare."
Yet during a campaign stop in Nassau County on Tuesday, Mr. Pataki said that while he was skeptical that the proposal could save much money, he was still evaluating its "pros and cons." He also said that he did not know anything about the commercial -- even though his voice is on it.
In Albany today, Mr. Pataki acknowledged calling the idea "corporate welfare," but he denied that he had softened his criticism while campaigning in Long Island, where Mr. Cuomo's proposal has sparked widespread interest, even if few officials have yet to endorse it.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1994, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the New York State governor's race misidentified the State Senator from Saratoga Springs. He is Joseph Bruno, not George.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POST HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (52%); MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POST MARIST INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC OPINION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTION ISSUES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MURDER (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); JONES, CHARISSE ; GOLISANO, B THOMAS RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994



692 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: U.S. ECONOMY GREW 3.4% IN QUARTER; INFLATION IN CHECK

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Despite a series of interest-rate increases this year, the American economy grew at a surprisingly rapid 3.4 percent annual pace during the summer, Government figures showed today. Consequently, 1994 is now shaping up as possibly the second-best year in a decade.
Yet inflation still showed no acceleration and, at least by some gauges, slackened a bit during the July-September quarter. 
 The Clinton Administration, which has gained little public credit for the robust economy, exulted in the Commerce Department report, which provided timely ammunition for Democrats in the midterm elections 11 days away.
"It's the best of all possible worlds," said Vice President Al Gore, who appeared in the White House briefing room between campaign swings to trumpet "strong economic growth with historically low inflation."
While some experts on Wall Street remained worried that the economy was too strong for its own good, the Vice President's comments echoed those of several private analysts. And the bond and stock markets reacted positively to the figures. [Page 37.]
After several upbeat readings on the economy in recent weeks, Mr. Gore said, "The wind is at the back of Democratic candidates."
At the same time, however, the economy has not been as central to the debate in the midterm elections as it was when growth was slower and unemployment was higher. Even though this year could be better than any year since 1988, when gross domestic product rose 3.9 percent, the candidates are concentrating more on issues like crime and welfare that seem to be in the forefront of public concern.
The economy's best year of the last decade was 1984, when G.D.P. grew 6.2 percent.
Not to be upstaged while traveling in the Mideast, President Clinton summoned American reporters to a room in the Emir of Kuwait's palace to call attention to what he called "good news on the home front." The expansion, he said, this year has produced "more high-wage jobs than the previous five years combined."
In welcoming the latest results involving the broadest of all economic gauges, the financial markets appeared reassured by the continued mild inflation. Investors were also comforted by the fact that much of the economy's recent strength was a result of higher inventories in warehouses and on retail shelves. To some extent, those gains may have been borrowed from the future because they reduce the need for additional production.
After initially sagging, the 30-year Treasury bond rose sharply today to drive its rate back under 8 percent, finishing at 7.95 percent. And by surging more than 50 points, the Dow Jones industrial average set off curbs on computer-generated stock trading; the Dow ended with a gain of 55.51 points, or 1.4 percent.
Analysts generally agreed that the Federal Reserve would move at least once more this year to raise short-term interest rates to head off inflation pressures. That will probably be a half-point increase at its Nov. 15 policy meeting.
The figures released today on the July-September quarter were preliminary and will be followed by at least two revisions, which could change the economic picture offered by the Government report. But recent revisions, which have tended to show stronger growth than initial reports, have been fairly modest.
Some experts said that today's strong report -- which also showed sales of goods to their ultimate consumers rising at more than double the second-quarter pace -- guaranteed a Fed rate increase and perhaps would make it come sooner.
Others expressed confidence that the Fed would recognize the potential drag from buildups in inventories and move cautiously. And they are counting on the central bank not to overreact, even though the economy continues to expand faster than the rate of 2.5 percent or so that is widely thought to be the most growth it can sustain over time without pushing up inflation.
Booming investment in new plants and equipment, which has been advancing at record postwar levels for three years, should also tend to keep prices in check, analysts noted.
The inflation figures that were part of today's report were reassuring, analysts said. The fixed-weight price index for gross domestic purchases -- measuring prices of what residents buy as distinct from what they produce -- rose 3.2 percent, the same pace as in the second quarter. Excluding the wide-swinging food and energy sectors, the inflation rate fell to 2.5 percent in the third quarter from 3.6 percent in the second.
The so-called deflator for the G.D.P. tumbled to a 1.6 percent rate from 2.9 percent. But it is not a pure measure of prices, since it reflects changes in the composition of output, and the improvement was mainly a result of a quirk from higher oil prices. Increases for imported oil -- which provide nearly 50 percent of American needs -- are subtracted to calculate domestic accounts.
As in the second quarter, when the dollar value of the nation's output of goods and services jumped at a 4.1 percent pace, inventories were a dominant factor in the growth.
Stocks swelled at all levels, with buildups in the distribution chain suggesting to Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, that the coming holiday season "may end up being very promotional as retailers try to push the goods on their shelves."
Nonetheless, analysts said, it became increasingly clear over the summer that most stockpiling was voluntary. It was created intentionally, they argued, by producers, wholesalers and stores confident that they could sell the goods.
Some economists said that businesses began to build inventories only after it became obvious, sometime within the last year, that the sluggish recovery that began officially in early 1991 had reached cruising speed and was no longer in danger of stalling out.
Businesses raised their stocks of goods at a $64.5 billion annual pace in the third quarter, surpassing the $59.2 billion spring pace and more than doubling the rate of last winter. Still, observed Ed Yardeni of C. J. Lawrence/Deutsche Bank Securities, the ratio of factory and trade inventories to the current pace of sales is at a record low, suggesting that accumulation will continue.
Eventually, however, this process will end and production will be throttled back, perhaps abruptly.
Some analysts expressed surprise at how freely consumers spent over the summer. For example, personal spending on durable goods climbed at a 7.9 percent rate after rising four-tenths of a percent in the spring. The rise in spending on services rose a point, to a 2.1 percent annual pace, while spending on nondurable goods was also up at a 2.1 percent clip, about unchanged.
Data included in the gross domestic product for the third quarter of 1994 follow, expressed in constant 1987 dollars to adjust for inflation. All dollar amounts are in billions at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Percentage changes are from the previous quarter at seasonally adjusted annual rates.
 

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
*G.D.P. less inventory change.
N.A. Not available or applicable.
Source: Commerce Department

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Real Economic Growth" shows annual rate of change in the gross domestic product from 1990 to 1994. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (87%); BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



693 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-6
 
TEST FOR THE NEW RUSSIA
Russia is planning to cut back operations at its subsidized coal mines, and how that is accomplished will be seen as a test of whether it can carry out economic plans without causing a social crisis. 1 

Solzhenitsyn told Parliament to focus on ordinary Russians. 6
 
FROM CLINTON, TALK OF VICTORY
President Clinton went to Kuwait and posed on a tank, but his message was that the United States' action in response to a new threat from Iraq had been a victory. 3
 
LITTLE OPTIMISM ON SYRIA
Israeli officials had a pessimistic assessment of the negotiations for peace with Syria, feeling that little progress was made during President Clinton's visit, despite a cheerful assessment a day earlier. 3
 
SERBS THREATEN SARAJEVO
A Bosnian Serb commander threatened to resume shelling of Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia, unless the Bosnian Government pulled back from its offensive in an area of northwestern Bosnia. 5
 
PRESSURE ON SERBS AT U.N.
The United States proposed that the United Nations Security Council lift the arms embargo on Bosnia in six months, to press the Bosnian Serbs to accept a peace agreement. 5
 
VATICAN MAKES PROMISES TO NUNS
A synod of Roman Catholic bishops made commitments to increase the role of nuns, which could help nuns in third world countries but not in the United States, but it did not address ordination of women. 5
 
MOZAMBIQUE VOTE GOES FORWARD
The opposition leader in Mozambique, who had made allegations of fraud in the country's first free elections, ended a boycott he had threatened and cast his ballot. 6
 
Lyons Journal: Defining France's Islamic tradition. 4
 
National 7-10
 
STRONG ECONOMIC GROWTH
The American economy grew at a surprisingly rapid 3.4 percent annual pace during the summer, despite a series of interest-rate increases this year. Consequently, 1994 is now shaping up as possibly the second-best year in a decade. 1
 
SHAKEOUT FROM WALL ST.
The financial industry faces mounting troubles that are adding to the billion-dollar budget woes of New York City. And its travails threaten to cast a pall over the fragile recovery in the New York metropolitan area, which had been led out of recession by Wall Street. 1
 
$1.7 MILLION IN TAILHOOK SUIT
A jury found the Las Vegas Hilton negligent in sexual assaults at the 1991 Tailhook convention and awarded a whistle-blower $1.7 million in damages. 1
 
FROM ELOQUENCE TO BUFFALO GUNS
In the Capitol, he's the silver-haired Speaker of the House who quotes Churchill, but back home Tom Foley is forced to play down-home boy as he struggles to keep his seat. 1
 
MRS. REAGAN SAYS NORTH LIED
Nancy Reagan said Oliver North, Virginia's Republican Senate Candidate, "lied to my husband and lied about my husband." 8
 
MAINE'S QUIXOTIC CANDIDATE
A politician who took tough stands and cast courageous votes discovered that oft-praised political virtues were not selling in Maine. 8
 
FINDING HUFFINGTON'S RECORD
Michael Huffington, who has pulled within striking distance of Senator Dianne Feinstein in California, got mixed reviews for his record in business and politics. 9
 
The I.N.S. is investigating Mr. Huffington's hiring an illegal alien. 9
 
NEW GANG WEAPON: FIREBOMBS
In two years, the police in at least 15 cities have reported gang-related arson attacks against people. 7
 
HOME IS WHERE LEARNING HAPPENS
Two weeks ago, an iconoclastic school board member's proposal to abolish homework sounded like the answer to every kid's prayer. Then the students weighed in. 7
 
RACE-BASED SCHOLARSHIPS
A court decision that struck down a scholarship program for black students at the University of Maryland sent other educators scrambling to review their programs. 7
 
DIFFERENT SHADES OF GREEN
As the 25th anniversary of Earth Day nears, the event's organizers are divided over the role of corporations in the celebrations. 10
 
OPPOSITION TO F.D.A. PROPOSAL
Doctors opposed an F.D.A. proposal on new rules for drug trials after five patients died. 10
 
Religion: A new Gospel translation with roots in slave ships. 26
 
Metro Digest 21
 
PRICE OF BEING BIPARTISAN
On his first day of campaigning for Governor Cuomo, Mayor Giuliani experienced the bitter price of bipartisanship as Pataki supporters seized on him as the reason for their candidate's misfortune. 1
 
VOICES FROM THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
Williamsbridge, a largely black and West Indian neighborhood in the northeast Bronx, is a working-class place where people still have faith in Governor Cuomo. 1
 
Business Digest 37
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-17
 
Geneva gets a contemporary museum. 13
 
Theater: Ron Athey's performance piece. 13
 
Music: They Might Be Giants. 13
 
Sports 27-32
 
Obituaries 11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
 
A slow start in Haiti.
 
Unfinished justice at Prudential.
 
Debate, already.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Rewards in freedom.
 
Russell Baker: The C-Span miracle.
 
E. D. Hirsch Jr.: Good genes, bad schools.
 
Kader Asmal and Ronald Roberts: Apartheid lives on.
 
Michael Blumenthal: Allen Ginsberg, millionaire?
 
Bridge 17
 
Chronicle 20
 
Crossword 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); SYRIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LYON, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); SYRIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LYON, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RELIGION (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); RECESSION (77%); NEGLIGENCE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); COAL MINING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); DAMAGES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (64%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); VERDICTS (60%); JURY TRIALS (60%); CITIES (60%); ARMS EMBARGOES (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



694 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: Decline on Wall Street Hurts The City's Fragile Recovery

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Having led the New York metropolitan area out of recession, the financial industry now faces mounting troubles that are adding to the billion-dollar budget woes of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. At the same time, Wall Street's travails threaten to cast a pall over the fragile recovery in New York City and its suburbs.
Unlike the crash of 1987, which ended a speculative frenzy in stocks, Wall Street's current traumas are largely a consequence of a steep fall in the less-visible bond market, which once provided a cushion of stability for the volatile securities business. 
 "The big event of 1994 is that we have had a crash in the bond market at least as great as the stock market crash of 1987," said Donald P. Marron, chairman and chief executive of Paine Webber.
The decline in Wall Street's fortunes this year is particularly bad news for City Hall. While the securities industry represents only 4.2 percent of New York's employment, its average annual salary last year of $134,456 accounted for nearly 14 percent of the city's total wages.
Jobs lost and bonuses cut on Wall Street have an even greater impact throughout the region, eroding local and state tax revenues because the affluent pay a substantially larger share of their income in taxes.
No one believes that another economic downturn is imminent in the New York region so soon after the last recession ended. Indeed, other sources of growth -- an array of new business ventures in media and entertainment, a stronger national economy and rising exports to Europe -- have already emerged to pick up some of the slack.
Still, Wall Street workers have become more cautious spenders, and that ripples through the metropolitan economy, affecting businesses large and small -- from real estate and restaurants to art and automobile dealers.
Beyond the relatively modest job cuts so far, the region's economy faces a potentially greater impact from an expected decline in year-end bonuses, which make up as much as 75 percent of Wall Street's total compensation. Analysts estimate that bonuses may fall 25 to 30 percent on average, holding down spending throughout the metropolitan area.
"The income-multiplier effect is enormous," said Rosemary Scanlon, the assistant deputy state comptroller who tracks the city's economy. "One job either gained or lost has such a big bang on the system."
Nobody knows this better than Naomi Friedman, who had been making an especially nice living in the early 1990's from Wall Street's prosperous young securities traders and analysts at her luxury real estate agency in Saddle River, N.J. Earlier this year, four traders from the same firm were looking to buy homes in the area ranging in price from $1.5 million to $2.5 million.
"Suddenly, there was a downturn in the market and they were gone," she recalled recently.
Wall Street traders are good customers, Ms. Friedman explained, but you have to grab them while they are hot. "When the market is good, they fly high," she said. "Then as soon as they see evidence of the market weakening, they hold back."
The experience in the financial sector this year is a sharp break from the record profits of the previous three years. Earnings plummeted at most securities companies over the last eight months. Across Wall Street, net income is expected to decline by as much as 50 percent this year, Moody's Investor Services reported recently.
Layoffs have either already been announced or are being contemplated at most of the major firms. And employees at Kidder, Peabody, the brokerage and investment bank that is being acquired by rival Paine Webber, are bracing for the elimination of as many as 2,000 jobs.
For those who remain on the job, cost-cutting is the order of the day. Once-coddled traders at Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers, who received free lunches from carts on the trading floor, were recently forced to start buying their own. Executives at Smith Barney must now pay for parking. Elaine Garzarelli, the strategist who made her reputation by predicting the 1987 crash, was ousted by Lehman Brothers this week partly to cut costs.
Wall Street's weak performance was cited by Mayor Giuliani last week as a driving force behind his plan to cut an additional $800 million in spending after imposing cuts of $1.1 billion in his maiden budget, which was passed by the City Council only four months ago.
While other factors, like growing overtime costs, contributed to the widening budget chasm, tax revenues from personal income and the profits of commercial banks are now expected to fall $300 million short of earlier estimates, according to Abraham H. Lackman, New York City's budget director.
So far, analysts say, there is little indication that the securities industry is facing a slump as serious as the one that began after the global stock market crash in October 1987. From 1987 to 1991, more than 28,000 Wall Street jobs were eliminated, helping to send the local economy into a tailspin in 1989 from which it only began to recover last year.
"If it doesn't deepen, there is a sense that this is like a speed bump," Mr. Lackman said.
City officials appear to have been misled by Wall Street's recent boom into expecting the blistering profit gains of the last two years to continue. Wall Street accounted for one-third of the 32,400 new jobs in New York during the first eight months of this year, according to a recent report on the city economy prepared by the state comptroller's office. Since July, though, industry employment figures are flat.
"The first half of this year was unbelievable," said Gary Goldstein, president of the Whitney Group, an executive search firm.
Much of the growth was pent-up demand. Wall Street managers who presided over the painful job cuts of the late 1980's were careful not to let job gains get out of control when the industry began to pick up again in the early 1990's. But as the profits piled up, their discipline waned. That led to a brief hiring boom that was cut short as the bond market fell.
Wall Street is still adding jobs in certain specialties, Mr. Goldstein said, like emerging markets in developing countries. Foreign and domestic commercial banks are also eager to expand into businesses traditionally dominated by Wall Street firms. But any increase in those areas will likely be swamped by layoffs elsewhere.
"I think the total headcount will be down at the end of the year compared to 1993 as firms take the opportunity to make cuts across the board," said one manager at a Wall Street firm, who insisted on anonymity.
Unlike the drama of a sudden stock market collapse, this year's bond market plunge has been a slow, seemingly inexorable decline. Since Oct. 15, 1993, the value of a 30-year Treasury bond, including principal and interest, has plunged 21 percent. That is the worst yearlong performance since proper records were first compiled in 1927, said James A. Bianco, the director of research at the Arbor Trading Group in Barrington, Ill.
The downturn began when Wall Street lost its source of free profits. Beginning in 1990, the cost of borrowing money from banks on a short-term basis dropped far below the income earned from investing in long-term bonds.
"All Wall Street had to do was carry goods in its inventory and the difference between their yield and what they cost to finance represented a profit," said James Grant, a financial historian and editor of the newsletter Grant's Interest Rate Observer. "It was the easiest money in capitalism, while it lasted."
As the spread between short- and long-term rates widened, the industry's biggest participants -- from firms like Goldman, Sachs to investors like George Soros and Michael Steinhardt -- magnified their profits by borrowing billions of low-cost dollars to buy bonds in the United States and Europe.
When the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates in February, few saw the end in sight. As bond prices began to fall, speculators were forced to sell to cover their bank loans. That in turn lowered prices further, creating a downward spiral.
By the time the smoke cleared, investors had lost hundreds of billions of dollars. Higher interest rates also put an end to a bond and stock underwriting boom, cutting into a major source of Wall Street's income. The market for mortgage-backed bonds, one of the biggest money makers of the early 90's, virtually dried up. Nine consecutive quarters of rising profits for the industry gave way to pretax losses of $622 million in the second quarter of this year.
But just as the bond market helped sustain Wall Street after the stock market crash of 1987, stocks have remained relatively healthy in the face of this year's bond plunge. Strong corporate profits fueled by the national economic recovery lifted the prices of stocks close to previous records. Some Wall Street firms, like Merrill Lynch and Dean Witter, Discover & Company, have performed well by managing money for private clients, issuing credit cards and other operations.
And even firms that were hit hard by the bond market downturn -- among them Goldman, Sachs, Bear Stearns & Company, and Lehman Brothers -- are still expected to operate in the black this year. "They're not making nearly as much money as the previous year," Mr. Lackman said, "but they are making money."
The question is whether they will continue to do so. Most securities analysts predict that interest rates will remain stable next year. If they are wrong, the stock market could weaken in the face of a threat to the national economy, further harming Wall Street firms.
"The scenario that worries me is that this turbulence continues into 1995," said David Hensley, an economist at Salomon Brothers who follows the New York region. "You have to entertain the idea that growth in New York may stall out."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Braced to Retrench on Wall Street" shows corporate debt issues, corporate equity issues and return on equity issues for securities industry from 1986 to 1994 and security industry employees in N.Y.C. from 1986 to 1993. (Sources: Securities Industry Association, New York State Department of Labor)(pg. 51)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TRENDS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (54%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



695 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The economy grew at a robust 3.4 percent annual pace during the summer. But inflation showed no sign of acceleration in the Commerce Department's report on gross domestic product for the third quarter. The Clinton Administration trumpeted the data as portraying a healthy, stable economy. [Page 1.]
Wall Street's woes threaten a fragile recovery in New York City and its suburbs. The financial industry, which had led the local economy out of recession, is suffering a downturn nearly as sharp as the stock market crash of 1987. But this time the losses have been in the less-visible bond market, which once provided a cushion of stability for the volatile securities business. [1.]
 
Markets
Bonds staged a surprisingly strong rally, pushing the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond below the psychologically important level of 8 percent. Investors were heartened by the report on third-quarter economic growth, which showed inflation in check. [37.]
Stocks surged, bolstered by the G.D.P. report. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 55.51 points, or 1.4 percent. [38.]
The dollar strengthened as currency dealers took their cues from the advances in bonds and stocks in the United States. [47.]
Gasoline prices rose sharply after two refineries halted operations, heightening concerns about tight supplies. [47.]
 
Companies
Metropolitan Life is seeking to put a sales scandal behind it by shaking up its ranks and moving to improve training of its sales force. A cautious and conservative approach helped the company avoid the kinds of investment mistakes that have plagued some other insurers. But that tendency to avoid rocking the boat also allowed some bad sales and management habits to fester. [37.]
Johnson & Johnson hopes sucralose will rival aspartame. But the no-calorie sweetener must first win F.D.A. approval. [37.]
The head of Atlantic Records will take over the helm of Warner Brothers Records, its sister label, in an effort to quell turmoil within the company's corporate ranks. [37.]
McDonnell Douglas pleased investors, who sent its stock soaring. The company plans to repurchase 18 million shares, split the stock 3 for 1 and increase the dividend 71 percent. [37.]
Paine Webber sued two rival brokerage firms, accusing them of raiding Kidder, Peabody for its top brokers. Paine Webber agreed to acquire Kidder earlier this month. [39.]
Tenneco plans to sell more of Case, reducing its stake in the farm and construction equipment subsidiary to 49 percent. [39.]
Carson Pirie Scott is seeking to buy Younkers, in what would be a merger of two Midwestern department-store chains. [39.]
G.E.C. made a hostile bid for VSEL, Britain's leading submarine maker. The move pits the company against British Aerospace, which had reached a takeover agreement with VSEL. [39.]
Deutsche Bank plans to move its investment banking operations to London and merge them with Morgan Grenfell. [39.]
 
Your Money
The way banks sell mutual funds has been criticized by a number of customers, who contend they were misled about the risk, pushed into inappropriate investments and not told of the fees involved. Recent surveys by researchers suggest that many banks could do a better job of informing customers. [33.]
New rules limit escrow surplus requirements on mortgages. Millions of dollars may be refunded to home buyers. [34.]
Timing is important when selling shares of a mutual fund. For tax reasons, financial advisers urge people who are planning to sell to do so before the fund's distribution. [33.]
A second mortgage or a home equity line of credit? With interest rates rising, the traditional loan may be a better choice. [33.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); CARSON PIRIE SCOTT & CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MERGERS (75%); STOCK SPLITS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); CURRENCIES (72%); EURO (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); SALES & SELLING (70%); INSURANCE (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); SALES FORCE (65%); SALES TRAINING (65%); RETAILERS (65%); SALES MANAGEMENT (64%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (51%); GASOLINE PRICES (51%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



696 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Visits U.S. Troops In Kuwait

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CAMP DOHA, Kuwait, Oct. 28

 BODY:
At a final public stop of his Middle East tour, President Clinton today paid tribute to thousands of soldiers he rushed here just three weeks ago and warned anew that Saddam Hussein would pay a heavy price if he tried again to menace Kuwait.
"The United States and the international community will not allow Baghdad to threaten its neighbors now or in the future," the President declared from a platform erected on the backs of two M1-A1 Abrams tanks. "That is not our threat; that is our promise." 
 The display of foreign policy swagger accomplished a political feat 11 days before the election at home, enabling Mr. Clinton to make a triumphal address in a stage-managed setting and deliver what sounded like a promise to withdraw all American combat troops from Kuwait by Christmas.
Beyond the tanks, the backdrop for his speech included an armored personnel carrier and a Patriot missile launcher moved into place for the occasion. At the entrance to what only a few days ago was a patch of empty desert, a bent-backed military bridge had been positioned to open a gate to what looked like a movie set.
For Democrats who watched with apprehension this summer as Mr. Clinton's public approval ratings hit rock bottom, Mr. Clinton's performance today may have offered some reason for hope. Twice, the President clambered atop the Abrams tanks to stand perched on the turret, dispelling, at least for some, a bad political memory from 1988. In the presidential campaign that year, the Democratic candidate, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, was widely ridiculed when he boarded a tank to show his support for the military.
Mr. Clinton's advisers have made no secret of their hope that calling attention to his successes may contribute to Democratic successes at home. Tonight, as he headed for home, Mr. Clinton even paused in the Emir of Kuwait's palace to announce that he had "good news from the home front" -- figures showing solid growth and limited inflation in recent months.
But what was most plain on this last day of a nearly nonstop Middle East tour was the eagerness of Mr. Clinton and his White House to bask in acclaim for putting an end to the latest confrontation with Iraq.
At the Emir's palace tonight, the President bowed his head to receive the highest medal Kuwait can bestow on a foreigner. Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, the Emir, told Mr. Clinton that the award was meant to honor the speed with which he sent American troops "to stand side by side with our friends."
And before the troops in the desert, Mr. Clinton won throaty cheers as he cited their mission as the leading example of what he portrayed as recent foreign policy successes.
"One of the things that will go down in the history of this encounter is that you got here in a very big hurry," he said. "And because of that, Iraq got the message in a very big hurry."
A White House advance team had worked for days to arrange for telegenic pictures from Mr. Clinton's afternoon stop in the desert, which marked the first time in his Presidency that he has visited troops deployed in a battle zone.
At the direction of Col. John Brown, a brigade commander in the 24th Mechanized Infantry Division, which makes up nearly half the 9,000 American combat soldiers in Kuwait, a company of engineers spent four days building a special stage on the backs of two M1-A1 tanks.
And Mr. Clinton himself was prepared when the applause after his speech was broken by a soldier who shouted, "When are we going home?" With a grin, he returned to the microphone to offer just one piece of advice: "Don't forget your Christmas shopping!"
Asked tonight about that comment, Mr. Clinton said the timing of withdrawals would depend on troop movements by Iraq in coming weeks. That message was reiterated by both Anthony Lake, his national security adviser, and Gen. Binford Peay, the commander of the United States Central Command, who stressed that no decision was final.
But General Peay said he hoped that even if some logistical units had to stay behind, all the combat forces now in place in Kuwait could be home by Christmas.
Mr. Clinton's strong hint of a Christmas homecoming set off scenes of jubilation among the troops who heard his address, and dozens of them thrust scraps of paper, notebooks and even their Kevlar helmets toward him afterward as he spent nearly an hour shaking hands and signing autographs.
The President began his journey today in Jerusalem, where he visited Yad Vashem, the Holocaust museum. And even after leaving Kuwait, he made one stop in Saudi Arabia, where he met with King Fahd at the northern military base.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clinton Meets King Fahd
(Special to The New York Times) -- HAFR AL BATEN, Saudi Arabia, Oct. 28 (Reuters) -- President Clinton arrived in Saudi Arabia tonight and went into talks with King Fahd, who met the President at the airport.
American officials told reporters that the two leaders would discuss the cost of the American military buildup in the Persian Gulf that was prompted by Iraqi troop movements near Kuwait this month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, atop an M1-A1 tank, chats with American troops in the Kuwaiti desert. He hinted they might return home by Christmas. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); KUWAIT (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); EMIR OF KUWAIT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMIR OF KUWAIT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; IRAQ; UNITED STATES (98%); KUWAIT (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



697 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Dow Has 55-Point Jump, Reacting to G.D.P. Data

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market surged yesterday after the Government reported that the gross domestic product grew at a surprisingly rapid 3.4 percent annual rate in the third quarter.
The bond market, which opens earlier than stocks, also jumped, and yields, which move in the opposite direction from prices, fell sharply. 
 Stocks finished near their highs of the day, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 55.51 points, or 1.4 percent, to 3,930.66. For the fourth time since August, the Dow is making a run at its record close of 3,978.36, set on Jan. 31. But many analysts are hesitant to predict whether a new high will be set amid the volatility that is expected ahead of the next meeting of the Federal Reserve's chief rate-setting committee on Nov. 15.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 7.92 points, to 473.77. Only 5 of the index's 88 categories declined: gold, health care, metals, photography-imaging and tobacco. In addition, the Nasdaq composite index increased 8.68 points, to 776.15, and the American Stock Exchange market-value index advanced 3.07 points, to 458.16.
"The implicit price deflator in the G.D.P. was shockingly low, at 1.6 percent, versus expectations of 2.5 percent to 3 percent," said Bernard Spilko, senior vice president of Bank Julius Baer. "This means that inflation is not a troublesome number and so there was a calming effect on the market."
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was very heavy, with 381.6 million shares changing hands, compared with 327.8 million on Thursday. Advancing stocks exceeded those declining on the Big Board by 1,661 to 616.
When the Dow moved up 50 points at 12:31 P.M., the New York exchange put into effect its rule limiting program trading. It was the third time this month that the exchange had taken this action.
"Program buying in the morning was a large factor in the market and accounted for 41.71 points of the surge in the industrial index," said Jeffrey Rubin, an analyst for Birinyi Asssociates. "We also saw significant retail inflows, as well as institutional inflows."
The oilfield-service sector was strong, led by Halliburton, which reported better-than-expected third-quarter profits, in contrast to a loss in the year-ago period. It closed at 36 3/8, up 4 1/4; Dresser Industries closed at 21 3/8, up 3/4; and Noble Drilling closed at 30 1/8, up 1 1/4.
Airline stocks rallied for a second day on higher earnings. UAL, the parent of United Airlines, advanced 6, to 95; Delta rose 2 1/8, to 51 3/8, and AMR, the parent of American Airlines, increased 2 1/2, to 55 1/4.
Precious-metal stocks, which usually decline when inflation expectations diminish, were weak throughout the session. Battle Mountain was down 5/8, to 11; Cyprus was down 7/8, to 26 5/8; American Barrick was down 5/8, to 23 3/8, and Homestake Mining was down 5/8, to 19.
In addition, American depository receipts of Mexican companies were lower, in keeping with a decline of eight-tenths of 1 percent in Mexico's Bolsa index. Telefonos de Mexico dropped 3/8, to 56 1/8; Groupo Tribasa fell 1 1/2, to 32, and Vitro declined 1 7/8, to 21.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AIRLINES (62%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



698 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: MAINE;
In an Unpredictable State, the Senate Race Appears Predictable

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Me., Oct. 27

 BODY:
One of the familiar criticisms of politicians this year is that they are afraid to take the tough stand, to cast the courageous vote.
Here in Maine, where Ross Perot won 30 percent of the vote in the 1992 Presidential election, his strongest showing in any state, Representative Thomas H. Andrews, a Democrat, has time and again taken positions that he said were in the best interest of the nation, though they might have seemed disadvantageous to Maine. 
 And now he is so far behind Representative Olympia J. Snowe, a Republican, in their race for the Senate seat left vacant by George J. Mitchell's retirement that few people outside Mr. Andrews's immediate camp give him any chance to catch up.
Mr. Andrews said in an interview that he had come from behind before to win, and he expected to do so again. Senator Mitchell said he thought Mr. Andrews still had a good chance.
But Maine's Republican Senator, William S. Cohen, expressed the prevailing view here. "Barring something that falls out of the sky," he said, "she should win handily."
An experienced political organizer in the state, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, did not even allow for meteors. "There is no circumstance in which she can lose," he said.
Other Republicans are not faring so well here this year. The race for Governor is a tight one between former Gov. Joseph E. Brennan, a Democrat, and Angus King, a businessman and television commentator who was once a Democrat and is running as an independent. The Republican, Susan M. Collins, a former official of the Small Business Administration, is running a distant third.
Everyone who follows politics in this unpredictable state has been somewhat surprised by the turn of events that have left Ms. Snowe with such a comfortable advantage.
When Mr. Mitchell, the majority leader in the Senate, made the stunning announcement last spring that he would not run for re-election, Mr. Andrews seemed well positioned to keep the Senate seat in Democratic hands.
He had been elected twice with large majorities in the First Congressional District, which covers southern Maine and is centered on Portland. Some of Mr. Mitchell's popularity seemed likely to rub off on the 41-year-old liberal Congressman. And President Clinton is quite highly regarded here, not the drag on Democratic candidates he is in many Southern states.
Ms. Snowe, on the other hand, had barely squeaked through in her last two elections to Congress from the Second District, which covers all the rest of the state and is the largest Congressional district east of the Mississippi. She had the reputation of being somewhat cold and distant. And her husband, Gov. John R. McKernan Jr., was expected to be a liability. He is extremely unpopular as he leaves office after two terms, mostly because of the way he handled budget problems that forced the state government to close temporarily.
So much for the early handicapping.
Ms. Snowe, who is 47, worked hard to improve her image. In her television advertisements and campaign appearances, said Sandy Maisel, a political science professor at Colby College in Waterville, "she now comes across as warm and cuddly."
Ms. Snowe said in an interview that her tough Congressional races had turned out to be a blessing. They forced her, she said, to form an organization, to learn how to raise money and to "sharpen my message." And while her husband has helped direct her campaign, he has mostly remained out of sight.
She was also helped because her moderate-conservative views appealed to Perot supporters, who remain well organized here.
Mr. Andrews, on the other hand, has run a campaign that he describes as principled. "The interests of Maine are directly linked to the interests of the country," he said in an interview.
Others see his campaign almost as suicidal.
He has much less money than Ms. Snowe for the final push, largely because of his refusal to take money from political committees affiliated with organized labor. Mr. Andrews supported the labor position and voted last year against the North American Free Trade Agreement. He is not taking labor money now, he said, because he wants to demonstrate that the unions did not buy his vote on the trade agreement. This decision, he estimates, has cost him $600,000 in contributions.
Though his state is heavily dependent on military spending, Mr. Andrews has used his position on the Armed Services Committee to support leaner military budgets.
While others in the state's Congressional delegation fought the closing of Loring Air Force Base, the economic underpinning of northern Maine, Mr. Andrews accepted it as a price that had to be paid. He has said he will take a similar stand if the base-closing commission recommends next year that the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery be shut.
He also opposed a program that would have provided loan guarantees to allow Turkey to buy frigates that might have been built at Bath Iron Works, the ship-building company that is the state's largest private employer.
In a television debate with Ms. Snowe on Wednesday night, Mr. Andrews said, "We've got to stop spending money on cold war weapons systems, for example, or obsolete military facilities that simply are not necessary to meet the needs of our defense in this new era."
When Senator Mitchell arranged for some additional highway money for Maine this year, Mr. Andrews called it unnecessary pork. And in a state filled with gun lovers, he has been a strong advocate of gun-control laws.
"He is pointing his finger at you every minute," said Mr. Maisel, an Andrews supporter. "He's always screaming at you. He just doesn't seem like someone you would like."
Ms. Snowe is taking subtle advantage. "I will worry about America's place in the world," she says at the conclusion of her latest ad. "But I will also worry about Maine's place in America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a somewhat surprising turn of events, Olympia J. Snowe, left, has a commanding lead over Thomas H. Andrews, right, in their race for the Senate seat left vacant by George J. Mitchell, the Democratic leader. (Photographs by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE; UNITED STATES (96%); MAINE, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; SNOWE, OLYMPIA J (REPR); ANDREWS, THOMAS H (REPR); BRENNAN, JOSEPH E; COLLINS, SUSAN M; KING, ANGUS; MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN) GEORGE J MITCHELL (90%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (89%); ANGUS KING (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SUSAN COLLINS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



699 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rallies on Release Of 3d-Quarter Growth Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The depressed dollar rallied broadly yesterday in concert with stocks and bonds as the markets welcomed United States economic data depicting growth accompanied by mild inflation.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that gross domestic product grew at an unexpectedly high rate of 3.4 percent in the third quarter. Inflation gauges tied to the G.D.P. came in below estimates. 
 After overcoming some initial weakness, stocks, bonds and the dollar all headed higher. Currency traders have been tracking the performances of bonds and stocks to gauge foreign demand for American assets and the dollars needed to buy them.
Some traders, however, contended that internal market forces favored the dollar and accounted for the bulk of the buying.
Despite gains since Wedneday, the dollar remains near record lows against the Japanese yen and the German mark. Many traders expect selling pressures on it to return.
"Nothing fundamentally has changed," said Hubert Pedroli, manager of foreign exchange trading at Credit Suisse in New York. "I really think the dollar rally was technical. The market has been very negative on the dollar but we never made progress on the downside today so people bought to cover short positions."
Traders establish short positions by selling a currency, hoping to buy it back more cheaply in the future. Short-covering would mean buying dollars to eliminate those positions.
David Durst, a vice president in Bear, Stearns & Company's foreign exchange department, said buying had also been sparked by rumors that an emergency meeting of the Group of Seven -- the United States and its main trading partners -- was being scheduled to address the dollar's condition. The rumors proved unfounded but by then the dollar rally was in motion, Mr. Durst said.
The dollar advanced against the mark, settling in New York at 1.5102 marks, up from 1.4987 on Thursday. It edged up against the yen, at 97.27 yen from 96.99 on Thursday.
In other currency trading in New York late yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 1.2595 Swiss francs, up from 1.2429 francs on Thursday. The British pound fell to $1.6240 from $1.6360 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (67%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); 

PERSON: DAVID DURST (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



700 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
Two Ways To Tap A Home's Equity

BYLINE: By Nick Ravo 

 BODY:
Which makes more sense: a second mortgage or a home equity line of credit? That's the perplexing question for people who want to tap the equity in their homes for college, a car, business or any other purpose.
Even though rising interest rates have made lines of credit slightly less appealing this year, they are still popular, mainly because of relatively low initial rates and fees. 
 But with rates caught in what seems to be a never-ending upward spiral, the old-fashioned loan may be a better choice. Not only does it usually lock in a fixed rate, but some lenders are waiving the fees as well.
And those low initial rates advertised on a home equity line can quickly -- usually in six months or a year -- climb higher than those on a comparable fixed-rate loan.
"Consumers with home equity lines of credit should know that that sexy looking number in the ad is an artificial introductory rate," said Robert K. Heady, publisher of Bank Rate Monitor, a newsletter in North Palm Beach, Fla.
The primary lure of both loans is a tax deduction for interest paid because the home is used as collateral. With a traditional loan, or second mortgage, a borrower takes out a lump sum for a set term. With a home equity line of credit, a borrower can use as much as needed.
For a line of credit, a borrower generally pays a single upfront fee, often about $250. Fees on a second mortgage, by contrast, can amount to thousands of dollars, covering credit checks, appraisals, legal costs, title insurance and closing costs known as points (with one point equal to 1 percent of the loan amount). In New York, there is a 1.75 percent tax on the loan amount.
Aggressive lenders, however, are abandoning many charges on fixed-rate loans. The Queens County Savings Bank in Flushing, for example, is waiving all fees except for a small recording fee, generally $44, and the New York mortgage tax. Its five-year loan is available at an interest rate of 8.25 percent with no points.
The average interest rate for all fixed-rate equity loans surveyed on Oct. 5 by HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Butler, N.J., was 9.22 percent. The terms are usually 5, 7, 10, 15 and 20 years, with rates lower on shorter-term loans. "The rates vary widely from lender to lender," said Keith T. Gumbinger, an analyst with HSH.
On a credit line, the bigger the amount, the lower the initial rate. Then the rate adjusts periodically to a level of one to two percentage points above the prime rate, a banking benchmark now at 7.75 percent. The average rate on home equity lines is 9.36 percent, though some lenders may offer the first year at two points below the prime; a few go as low as 4.99 percent.
The biggest danger with lines of credit, of course, is that rates will rise substantially. Unlike adjustable-rate mortgages, lines of credit rarely have annual limits on rate increases. The lifetime cap is usually about 18 percent, but may be higher.
Long-term borrowers should go with a fixed-rate loan, Mr. Gumbinger said, and people who intend to borrow the money for three years or less should go with either a line of credit or, if a very small amount, a short-term fixed-rate loan.
"If you're going to get out real quick, you don't have to worry about a rising-rate scenario," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Borrowers' Choices" shows percentage of homeowners with traditional second mortgages and with home equity lines of credit (Source: Univeristy of Michigan Surveys of Consumers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS COUNTY SAVINGS BANK (53%); NEW YORK (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CREDIT HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (94%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SECOND MORTGAGES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); CREDIT CHECKS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); TITLE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK KEITH T GUMBINGER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



701 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Business Failures Decline

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Fewer businesses failed in the first three quarters of 1994 than in the corresponding period last year, according to a survey by the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
Nearly 55,000 businesses have closed so far this year, down 19 percent from the 67,500 that shut their doors a year earlier. An especially low percentage of companies in three industries -- mining; manufacturing; and finance, insurance and real estate -- are failing this year, the survey said. 
 Regionally, the New England states reported the greatest decrease in business failures, down 31.2 percent from last year. Business failures in Connecticut were down 47 percent, and failures in Rhode Island and New Hampshire were down 39 percent.
The survey's statistics include businesses that went bankrupt, were assigned or foreclosed upon, went out of business leaving debts to creditors or were involved in court actions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (68%); 

COMPANY: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (91%); NEW ENGLAND (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP NEW ENGLAND (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); FORECLOSURE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



702 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Baseball;
Yanks Give O'Neill $19 Million Contract

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY 

 BODY:
One day before Paul O'Neill would have filed to become a free agent and started a process that could have ended his association with the Yankees, the club signed him yesterday to a four-year contract worth $19 million.
There has been limited signing activity throughout the major leagues because of the continuing labor strife, but the Yankees made a bold, calculated move when they prevented O'Neill, the American League's top batter in the strike-shortened season, from bursting into the open market. Mindful that they need O'Neill's powerful hitting and dependable defense to duplicate their first-place standing of 1994, the Yankees made the 31-year-old outfielder an offer lucrative enough for him to spurn free agency. 
 General Manager Gene Michael had targeted O'Neill as his priority in the off season, obviously realizing the risks if 27 other teams had been allowed to bid for him.
"Paul loves playing in New York," said Joe Bick, his Cincinnati-based agent who estimated that he had 15 conversations with Michael. "The last two years have turned out to be a great experience for him. He said, 'If we can get a deal worked out with the Yankees and it's a reasonable deal, I'm not afraid to sign a contract without going out on the market.' "
Because the economic climate in the majors is a very delicate issue these days, the Yankees were hesitant to discuss O'Neill's contract. Neither Michael, Manager Buck Showalter nor George Steinbrenner returned phone calls, O'Neill was unavailable, and Bick said the Yankees would probably hold a news conference in two weeks.
When Bick was asked if O'Neill's contract averaged to about $5 million a year, he said, "I'm not going to be the source for that."
The terms of the $19 million deal, according to a source familiar with it, call for O'Neill to receive a $2.2 million signing bonus, with $1.2 million payable on Dec. 15, 1994, and the rest on Jan. 5, 1996. O'Neill's salaries will be $2.25 million for 1995, $4.75 million for 1996 and $4.9 million in both 1997 and 1998.
O'Neill's annual salary will average $4.75 million, up from $3.5 million in 1994 and second on the Yankees to Danny Tartabull, who averages $5 million.
O'Neill will receive a $150,000 bonus if he is named the league's most valuable player (he finished fifth in this year's voting), $50,000 for being named the League Championship Series m.v.p., World Series m.v.p. or is selected for the All-Star team, and $25,000 for being named Divisional Series m.v.p. or winning the Gold Glove or Silver Slugger awards.
Interestingly, the owners' Players Relations Committee asked teams to be wary of paying any contract signing bonuses because the money, in effect, will fund the players during the strike, now in its 12th week. The $1.2 million bonus O'Neill receives in two months falls into that ticklish category.
"Paul is thrilled with the deal," Bick said. "Paul wanted to stay in New York. I think everyone knew that going in."
O'Neill's timing has been impeccable. When he was acquired from Cincinnati for Roberto Kelly on Nov. 3, 1992, he was considered a talented player known for stellar defense, adequate power and temper tantrums. But in two seasons with the Yankees, O'Neill improved his game, heightened his reputation as one of baseball's best players and now is reaping the financial rewards.
Following a season in New York in which he batted a career-best .311 with 20 homers and 75 runs batted in, O'Neill had a more stupendous 1994 with his .359 average, 21 homers and 83 r.b.i.
Nevalee O'Neill, who was fielding questions in the absence of her husband yesterday at their home in Ohio, told one Yankee official that there were no plans for a huge celebration last night.
"We're going to a minor league hockey game," she said. "We're going to see the Cincinnati Cyclones."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
Stanley Files for Free Agency
On the day the Yankees signed Paul O'Neill and kept him from becoming a free agent, catcher Mike Stanley attempted to become one, disturbing the Yankees, who thought they had already signed him for 1995.
The Yankees claimed they exercised the $562,500 option on Stanley's contract on Sept. 22, but his agent, Jim Bronner, contends that the team had tried to pick up the option too soon and violated the deal. Gene Orza, the associate general counsel of the Players Association, said Stanley's contract called for the Yankees to exercise the option within 10 days after the World Series.
David Sussman, general counsel for the Yankees, said the owners' Player Relations Committee had rejected the attempt by the union to have Stanley file for free agency yesterday and claimed the option was exercised properly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES CINCINNATI CYCLONES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); BONUS PAY (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SPORTS AWARDS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, PAUL; CURRY, JACK PAUL O'NEILL (98%); JOE BICK (65%); STANLEY FILES (60%); GENE MICHAEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



703 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Acts Openly on Base Closings

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your Oct. 18 editorial erroneously claims the Pentagon is "Cheating on Base Closings." To save billions of dollars, the United States Department of Defense is closing bases -- hundreds of them -- and restructuring its operations. Only by doing so can we save funds to maintain the training and equipment essential to our armed forces.
 
 You base your argument on a claim by a business group that the Defense Department "quietly reopened" a third of the bases that have been slated for closure. The authors of the report decided not to check their facts with those who are responsible for base closings. As a result, the report is replete with errors.
 For example, the report claimed that the Norfolk Naval Depot in Virginia was not closed because the Defense Department placed a satellite accounting office in one building.
After the removal of more than 4,000 military personnel and civilians and the closing of 70 buildings, I would argue that, in theory, putting 700 accountants into an empty, free office building on the base would be a smart use of taxpayer funds. But there isn't one, so the accounting office is going into a commercial building that isn't on the base at all.
 The report also charges that the department's actions are taken in secret. This is bizarre: the base-closing process is one of the most carefully analyzed and public processes ever undertaken by the Government.
 Every action recommended is based on an analysis of the costs. Each analysis is provided to the independent base-closing commission, the General Accounting Office and the public.
 Even the decision to locate single office buildings for accountants was made after public announcements of the criteria, the methods of analyzing cost and the sites under consideration.
 Closing dozens of large bases across the country is not quick or easy, but we are doing it. The first round of closings is saving an estimated $760 million annually. When the hundreds of installations that have been agreed to are closed or restructured, this figure will grow to more than $4 billion a year.
 The department is already working on the next round of closing and restructuring recommendations, to be proposed -- publicly, of course -- in 1995.
JOSHUA GOTBAUM
Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Economic Security
Washington, Oct. 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NORFOLK, VA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORFOLK, VA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (91%); MILITARY BASES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); WRITERS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: GOTBAUM, JOSHUA (ASST SEC)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



704 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: New York Can Do More to Cut Bus Pollution

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 New York City's alternative-fuel vehicle program has suffered some problems (news article, Oct. 21). Although it is the largest such program in the country, it has failed to reduce air pollution and the use of foreign petroleum and to enhance local economic development.
 
 Many light-duty cars and vans in the program fail to fulfill those goals. However, the buses that run on compressed natural gas being purchased by the Transportation Department are an example of how the city can better meet these goals.
 Natural gas buses eliminate the toxic plume trailing most diesel buses. The Environmental Protection Agency and the Harvard School of Public Health estimate that more than 60,000 premature deaths annually nationwide are attributable to breathing these emissions.
 Natural gas is a domestic fuel, supplied by local fuel providers who employ local workers. Evidence from transit operators around the country shows there may be additional savings on fuel, maintenance and other operating costs. By taking advantage of available Federal assistance, the cost for each natural gas bus can be a fraction of the purchase price for a diesel bus.
 New York lags behind in its commitment to replacing its diesel fleet with natural gas or other alternative-fuel buses. Los Angeles, Seattle and Houston have committed to switching from diesel and are providing the funds to build the refueling infrastructure. New York must do the same.
RICHARD A. KASSEL
Senior Project Attorney
Natural Resources Defense Council
New York, Oct. 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; BUSES; DIESEL POWER; GAS (FUEL) ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); 

PERSON: KASSEL, RICHARD A

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



705 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: HOW THEY DO IT;
Hiring a Spouse and Slashing Medical Costs

 BODY:

UNEMPLOYED
 When John Williamson, of Menlo Park, Calif., lost his job as an applications engineer for a semi-conductor manufacturer in 1992, the loss of health care benefits for his family was a big blow, he said.
 
WORKING FOR HIMSELF
He initially looked for a job with full benefits, but found he was in more demand as a consultant. So he started his own home business. White Eagle Consulting, which does semiconductor tests and measurements.
 
A TANTALIZING TAX BREAK
His financial adviser told him of a ruling earlier this year by the Internal Revenue Service that allows sole proprietors to write off medical expenses. The catch is that the business owner must employ the spouse at a reasonable wage and then provide health benefits to substantially all employees.
 
A GOOD FIT
Mr. Williamson's wife, Jan, had been keeping the books anyway. All he had to do was put her on the payroll and establish a plan to reimburse employees for medical expenses. The plan covers family members, so his wife's coverage extends not only to their two children, but also to Mr. Williamson.
 
MEDICAL COSTS IN 1993
Total medical expenses were $6,848.
 
Insurance payments - $4,248
Deductibles - $800
Chiropractor - $1,320
Dentist - $264
Other - $216
 
SETTING UP THE PLAN
Now, White Eagle will pay Mrs. Williamson a salary of about $15,000 a year - a move that is a tax wash for the couple. It will aslo spend about $500 to establish a written medical benefits plan.
 
SUBSTANTIAL SAVINGS
 Mrs. Williamson will pay the family medical bills, and the company will reimburse her. The money is a tax-deductible expense for the business, and free from personal income tax for Mrs. Williamson.
Beacuse White Eagle pays about 50 percent in Federal, state and self-employment taxes, the plan effectively results in a 50 percent savings for the Williamsons.
 
Larry Pon of IDS Tax and Business Services says certain restrictions apply.
 
 * Reimbursements are limited to $5,000 per household.
 * The employer must be a sole proprietor.
 * The spouse must be a bona-fide emplyee.
 * The medical plan must cover nearly all employees.
 * The spouse's salary must be reasonable.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 1994, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The "How They Do It" chart in Your Money last Saturday referred incorrectly to the rules on how much an employer can reimburse employees for medical expenses. There is no limit on the amount that sole proprietors can reimburse employees for medical expenses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jan and John Williamson at home with their daughter, Zandra (Audrey Shehyn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: IPRINT TECHNOLOGIES INC (MENLO PARK, CA) (73%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES, PERSONAL; HEALTH INSURANCE; SMALL BUSINESS ELECTRONICS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); FAMILY (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (75%); CHIROPRACTIC (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); DENTAL INSURANCE (72%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMSON, JOHN S JR JOHN WILLIAMSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994



706 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gasoline Prices Up Sharply After Refinery Shutdowns

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Gasoline prices jumped yesterday after two refineries halted operations, increasing concerns about supplies that have already been reduced by two pipeline ruptures in Texas.
 On other commodity markets, gold fell and lumber rose. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities fell 0.48 point, to 234.48. 
Conoco Inc. said an explosion would delay production at its refinery in Lake Charles, La., which produces 45,000 barrels of gasoline a day. And British Petroleum P.L.C. said a leak on Thursday night forced it to shut a 50,000-barrel-a-day gasoline unit at a refinery in Marcus Hook, Pa.
 Gasoline supplies on the East Coast fell to a three-year low last week and further declines are expected as a result of the Colonial Pipeline ruptures last week. Traders are concerned that there will not be enough conventional gasoline available before a new, cleaner grade reaches retail pumps on Jan. 1.
 "There seems to be a lack of conventional gasoline in the New York Harbor and there is still some demand for it," said Mike Hiley, a trader with Smith Barney Inc.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, gasoline for November delivery rose 3.88 cents, its largest one-day gain since March 1993, to 58.56 cents a gallon. The November contract expires on Monday.
 Other energy prices gained. The December crude oil contract rose 8 cents, to $18.23 a barrel, while November heating oil fell 0.09 cent, to 49.31 cents a gallon.
 Gold prices fell for a sixth day as concerns dimmed that inflation would pick up. The Commerce Department, in its report yesterday on economic growth in the third quarter, said that inflation showed no acceleration.
 December gold fell to $388 an ounce, its lowest price in a month, before rebounding to close at $388.70, down $1.50, on the Commodity Exchange of New York. December silver fell 8 cents, to $5.367 an ounce, while January platinum lost $2, to $425.80 an ounce, on the Mercantile Exchange in New York.
 Lumber rose after the Commerce Department report eased concern about rising mortgage rates that could stifle home-buying demand.
 On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, lumber for November delivery rose $4, to $319.80 for 1,000 board feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (90%); BP (LSE) (90%); COP (NYSE) (84%); CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (90%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); CME GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PRICE INCREASES (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994



707 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 52; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By Laurel Graeber 

 BODY:
CHRISTMAS IN JULY: The Life and Art of Preston Sturges
By Diane Jacobs. University of California, $18.
This book celebrates one of Hollywood's first writer-directors, a man who supervised the filming of his own screenplays long before Woody Allen. Sturges's heyday in the 1940's produced "The Lady Eve" and "Hail the Conquering Hero" as well as the film that gives the book its title. This is "by far the best critical biography . . . of one of America's most treasured makers of film comedy," Peter Bogdanovich said here in 1992.
BAND OF ANGELS 

By Robert Penn Warren.
Louisiana State University, $12.95.
Originally published in 1955, this novel is narrated by Amantha Starr, a young black woman who doesn't realize she was born a slave until her father dies and she is forced to face a future as someone else's property. The New York Times's reviewer, Arthur Mizener, said, "There is certainly no one writing in America today who can dazzle us as Robert Penn Warren can by the way he tells such a story; he brings to it the most penetrating and most beautifully disciplined historical imagination we have." Louisiana State University is also restoring to print the works of other noted writers in its "Voices of the South" series. THE WIDOWS OF THORNTON, by Peter Taylor ($11.95), consists of eight stories and a play about black and white families who once lived in the town of Thornton, Tenn. The pieces are "outwardly simple, but psychologically complex and powerful," F. H. Lyell said in The New York Times in 1954. THE GAUDY PLACE, by Fred Chappell ($9.95), refers to a rundown area of Braceboro, N.C., where two desperate teen-agers -- a gambler and a prostitute -- conspire with a local con man. In 1973 our reviewer, Jonathan Yardley, called the author "a serious and uncommonly skillful writer."
CHICAGO '68
By David Farber. University of Chicago, $14.95.
The author analyzes the political climate that led to the violent street protests during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1968, noting that the self-destructive tendencies of the New Left and the blue-collar rage of the city police force made confrontation inevitable. Mr. Farber "meticulously dissects the motivations of all the principals," Nelson Lichtenstein said here in 1988. One of the Chicago protesters was James Miller, author of "DEMOCRACY IS IN THE STREETS": From Port Huron to the Siege of Chicago (Harvard University, $14.95). Mr. Miller's book reconstructs the beginnings of the New Left, concentrating on the men and women who drafted its seminal manifesto in 1962: the Port Huron Statement. In 1987 our reviewer, Hendrik Hertzberg, said, "He makes a fine guide -- accurate, sympathetic, critical, learned." The birthplaces of the student movement are the focus of CAMPUS WARS: The Peace Movement at American State Universities in the Vietnam Era, by Kenneth J. Heineman (New York University, $17.95). This "useful book examines the outside forces . . . that led to antiwar protests on campus," Herbert Mitgang said in The New York Times last year. The legacy of the 1960's is carried on in NO MORE NICE GIRLS: Countercultural Essays, by Ellen Willis (Wesleyan/University Press of New England, $16.95). These pieces, most published in the 1980's, deal largely with feminism. Last year our reviewer, Claudia Ricci, praised the author's "rich historical perspective."
THE TANGO PLAYER
By Christoph Hein. Translated by Philip Boehm.
Northwestern University, $13.95.
This novel explores the emotional state of Hans-Peter Dallow, an East German academic trying to reconstruct his life after nearly two years of imprisonment in the late 1960's. His crime? Playing the piano at a club while a seditious skit was performed. "Mr. Hein's work is a skeptical and troubled inquiry into the nature of freedom," Rand Richards Cooper said here in 1992. Northwestern University has also reissued a fictional view of totalitarianism, THE FOUNDATION PIT, by Andrei Platonov, translated by Mirra Ginsburg ($12.95). Voshchev, the novel's unemployed Russian hero, joins a group of workmen digging the foundation for a huge building that represents Stalinism at its height. In 1974 our reviewer of an earlier translation, Paul Theroux, called it "obviously a masterpiece."
JOSEPHINE HERBST
By Elinor Langer. Northeastern University, $14.95.
The author re-creates the changing world of the 1920's and 30's, a period that Josephine Herbst, a novelist and essayist active in left-wing politics, both witnessed and wrote about. The result is "a dramatically revealing biography," Robert Gorham Davis said here in 1984.
THE PIANO TUNER: Stories
By Peter Meinke. University of Georgia, $11.95.
The 14 pieces in this collection, which won the Flannery O'Connor Award for Short Fiction in 1986, illustrate the potential for sudden chaos and conflict in what appear to be well-ordered lives. One critic said the book "exhibits strong and consistent writing throughout."
BIRD OF JOVE
By David Bruce. Texas A & M University, $13.95.
Previously out of print, this book describes the author's relationship with an Asian golden eagle, a bird he rescued, took home to Wales and taught the ancient art of falconry -- with his own humane modifications. This is a "hypnotic and sometimes hair-raising interlude," Thomas Lask said in The New York Times in 1971.
HERO JESSE
By Lawrence Millman.
University Press of New England, $13.95.
The title character is a retarded adolescent boy whose fantasies of achieving glory in the Vietnam War are translated into horrific crimes. In 1982 one critic said the novel "wrests meaning from the very limitations of its narrator." LAUREL GRAEBER

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Penn Warren. (ROLLIN A. RIGGS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BAND OF ANGELS LLC (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; BOOK TRADE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); WRITERS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); COMEDY FILMS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL ROBERT PENN WARREN (71%); WOODY ALLEN (58%); ARTHUR MOORE MIZENER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



708 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: WORD & IMAGE;
Mediology

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
Sketch of The Voter, 1994, as currently rendered by The Media: Mad as hell. Hates the Ins. Doubts the Outs. Weary of the world and joyless on the job. Aggrieved by government. Nostalgic for family. Resentful of welfare, immigrants and taxes. Terrorized by crime, at least the news of it. Turned off by integration, even the dream of it. Amused, abashed, misjudged and misled by media -- if you can believe the media.
This depressing portrait is offered a mere three years after America's cold war triumph. The nation is wealthier, freer and more secure than ever; its values -- democracy, individualism and cheap oil -- are captivating the world. And still the media make Americans out to be miserable. No, say many, the media make us miserable; they wallow in violence, rake up muck, stir up strife. They've made the news itself the enemy of hope.
Grains of truth, buckets of hogwash. As the media's own polls should have taught, there's no such animal as Typical Voter. And there's no one beast called Media either. Many media are indiscriminate about voters, overlooking instructive studies of them. Voters, in turn, speak indiscriminately about the media when in fact they pick and choose from a huge and varied information menu. 
 Classifying voters used to be easy: most inherited a party label that they shed only for powerful reasons like Abolition or the Depression. But parties no longer command loyalty with service, and television delivers candidate images directly into the home, devaluing a party endorsement.
That, however, encourages two misconceptions. One is that every voter is a free spirit, uninfluenced by family or fashion. If that were so, we couldn't poll a few thousand to learn the sentiments of millions. The other, contradictory notion is that the media dictate political choices. If that were so, a few press lords would rule in ways they obviously don't.
In fact, sociologists have learned to classify voters in useful ways. They know much less about how different media either reflect or alter the voters' opinions. But pollsters are beginning to match up voters and media. So just as voters can be typed by their views, they may in time come to be known by their news.
One of the best monitors of voter attitudes is the Times Mirror Center for The People and The Press. It has just broadened its classification of Americans into 10 new groupings, an exercise that illuminates the tensions between and among Republicans, Democrats and independents. In the process, the Center measured voters' media habits, suggesting that Americans are more likely to be defined by their choice of media than they are indoctrinated by the content of the media. Why has such a useful study drawn so little interest? Well, just imagine the media having to admit that their vaunted influence results less from their leadership than from their catering.
Here then, in time for Election Day, are the highlights: Three groups form what the Times Mirror Center calls "The Divided Right."
Enterprisers (12 percent of registered voters) -- anti-government, pro-business, anti-welfare; fiercely Republican, white, mostly married. Media: TV network news (watch it but dislike it), daily paper (Wall Street Journal?), Fortune, "MacNeil/Lehrer."
Moralists (20 percent) -- religious, socially intolerant, anti-welfare, anti-business, anti-government; heavily Republican, mostly white. Media: Radio news, Rush Limbaugh.
Libertarians (4 percent) -- pro-business, anti-government, anti-welfare, highly tolerant, not religious; leaning Republican, mostly white, male. Media: Daily paper, Forbes, CNN, C-Span.
There is much mediological work to be done with this group. Which network news? Do Enterprisers prefer ABC to CBS? Do Libertarians prefer Safire to Will? The fast-growing Moralists despise MTV -- betraying a cultural conservatism that may stunt this right-wing coalition.
At the other end of the spectrum, Times Mirror finds four types grouped in "The 'Not So' Left":
Partisan Poor (8 percent) -- strongly pro-government, anti-business, religious and socially intolerant; overwhelmingly Democratic, poor, 40 percent nonwhite. Media: Network news (like it), MTV, "60 Minutes" et al., "A Current Affair" et al.
New Dealers (8 percent) -- conservative on race and welfare, religious, patriotic, pro-government, mistrust politicians and business; strongly Democratic, elderly. Media: Network news, TV magazines like "Hard Copy."
New Democrats (8 percent) -- pro-business, pro-government, religious, socially tolerant; for Bush in 1988, Clinton in 1992. Media: Every kind of television, lots of newspapers, MTV, The National Enquirer, Imus.
Seculars (10 percent) -- pro-government, mistrustful of business, strong on environment, sympathetic to minorities, low church attendance; proudly "liberal," heavily Democratic, 90 percent white. Media: Daily paper, Newsweek or Time, "All Things Considered," "MacNeil/Lehrer," C-Span.
A weak coalition. The Seculars' strong dislike of TV news and tabloids portends dislike of the other three groups. A shared distaste for Limbaugh is a poor glue.
Most important to political understanding are two of the three groups that make up "The Detached Center." Beyond the totally uninvolved Bystanders there are:
The Embittered (7 percent) -- distrust government, politicians and business, religious and tolerant; half for Clinton, 25 percent black, very poor. Media: Average commitments to daily paper and TV news.
New Economy Independents (19 percent) -- pro-welfare but not sympathetic to minorities; largely in service industries, precarious economically; 30 percent for Perot, mostly female. Media: Average commitments to daily paper, Time or U.S. News.
This independent quarter of the electorate, representing a post-industrial working class, accounts for most of the anger and frustration that The Media have been loosely ascribing to The Voter. These are voters most drawn to a new political party, most eager for change. More than any other group, they believe that the biases and sensations of the media "get in the way" of solving their problems. And their media preferences remain ill defined.
Small wonder. Track the best of the media and see how much attention is paid to the poor and to the rich -- but how little to the most vulnerable voters in beween. In the media, they would call that a market waiting to be served. In politics, they say just watch the explosion, next week.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: TIMES MIRROR CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE PRESS THE TIMES MIRROR CENTER (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES MIRROR CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND THE PRESS THE TIMES MIRROR CENTER (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; VOTER BEHAVIOR; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COLD WAR (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



709 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 40; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
A Show Brings On A Severe Case Of Period Envy

BYLINE: By Herbert Muschamp 

 BODY:
ARCHITECTURE GETS A somewhat desiccated treatment in "The Italian Metamorphosis, 1943-68," the Guggenheim Museum's epic survey of postwar Italian culture. Rows of somber little black-and-white photographs, lined up on racks that look like stylized gutters, scarcely throb with the poetry that architects like Carlo Scarpa, Pier Luigi Nervi, Gio Ponti and Franco Albini brought to modern architecture at midcentury. Still, the show (on view until Jan. 22) can bring on a serious case of period envy. What is most enviable about the presentation is not the quality of individual buildings designed in the postwar decades. It is the extent to which the period produced a sense of itself as a period: an era when architects believed that they were collectively shaping a time and place.
That faith, a cornerstone of the modern movement, has largely disappeared from architecture today. Where architects once drew meaning from being part of something larger than themselves, many now derive it from the distance they can place between themselves and their contemporaries. Certainly there has been no shortage of architectural movements since 1968; indeed, so many have come and gone that even the tireless chronicler Charles Jencks has grown weary of tracking them. But these movements have tended, on the whole, to splinter architecture rather than unify it. 
 It's customary to blame the media for this atomized state of affairs. Post-modernism, in particular, has been widely dismissed as a creature of the media's insatiable appetite for novelty. And it is true that much of the movement's intellectual substance seemed to fade in the paparazzi glare that bathed architecture -- and everything else -- in the 1980's. By the end of the decade, when Deconstruction and then New Modernism rolled around, people were tired of feeling bamboozled into thinking that they had to keep up. They had come to believe that these movements were driven not by ideas but by the marketplace imperative to search out trends, invent them when necessary and kill them off before boredom set in.
And if the point of the whole game was planned obsolescence, it became logical to ask: Why not beat the system? Why not just refuse to go along with the next thing? Whatever comes along, just say no. Sorry, no more movements. No more shiny new playthings. Folded planes? Sorry, can't use it. Green architecture? Not today, thank you. Infrastructure? Not in my backyard. The New Urbanism? Return to sender. We like the old urbanism just fine.
This knee-jerk resistance to movements may be an understandable antidote to media manipulation. But it has also bred a kind of nihilism, an indifference to architecture's public dimension. A movement doesn't have to be a grand design on the world; it can also be simply one of many stories about the world. And tuning out on what movements have to tell can be as pernicious as the withdrawal of the middle class into gated residential enclaves. And it's not even that effective a form of resistance to market pressures. In the 1980's, with the proliferation of unbuilt "paper" architecture as a form of alternative practice, dropping out became a commodity, too.
Compared with the state of exhausted fragmentation in which much of the profession now finds itself, Italian postwar architecture does indeed resemble a model of solidarity. Expressed or exposed structure; volumes reduced to geometric abstraction; unadorned surfaces; flat roofs, and the occasional free-form fantasy, like Luciano Baldessari's 1952 pavilion for the Fiera Internazionale in Milan: the buildings represented at the Guggenheim share a common vocabulary of forms. But this picture of unity is partly the illusion of hindsight. As the Guggenheim show makes clear, architects of the period split off into factions without any help from the paparazzi: Rationalists, neo-realists, inspired by a rural vernacular, and organicists, descended from Frank Lloyd Wright, competed to define the postwar moment. Indeed, in his excellent essay in the show's catalogue, the architectural historian Dennis Doordan persuasively argues that this period witnessed the first major challenge to the solidarity of the modern movement.
Italian architects had political as well as esthetic reasons for mounting such a challenge. In the 1930's, many of them believed that modernism -- clean, muscular, transparent -- was the ideal style for a Fascist society. Mussolini gave them a good deal of support. After the war, architects were naturally eager to put the Fascist connection behind them.
One way they did this was to relax the regimentation of orthodox modernism and call for a more diverse vocabulary of forms. By the 1950's, architects like Ernesto Nathan Rogers had begun to advocate an approach that prefigured what Kenneth Frampton calls critical regionalism -- the adjustment of modern concepts to local traditions and methods of building. Italian architects, for instance, showed relative restraint in the use of glass, an iconic modern material. Masonry walls, they believed, were effective for integrating modern buildings into the historic context of Italian cities.
DOORDAN CAUTIONS AGAINST regarding Italian architects as precursors of post-modernism. They did not fundamentally reject the ideological framework of modern architecture, nor did they abandon the sense of international solidarity it conferred upon them. They sought merely to adapt modern ideas to regional conditions: in effect, to supervise a collision between a global sense of time and a local sense of place.
Today, the situation has completely flipped around. The solidarity of the modern movement is barely a memory, while the only movement that has come close to replacing it on a global scale is the movement for historic preservation.
If there's an international movement in contemporary architecture, it is found in the travel itineraries of architectural superstars as they jet around the world, inscribing their distinctive signatures on sites in Singapore, Prague, Seoul and Berlin.
Far from imposing upon the world the kind of universal order envisioned by modernism, today's leading architects now create something closer to what is known in chaos theory as the Butterfly Effect. Consider, for instance, the recent reaction to the news that Zaha Hadid had won a competition to design a new opera house for Cardiff, in Wales. Just as (in James Gleick's words) "a butterfly stirring the air today in Beijing can transform storm systems next month in New York," so Hadid's outrageously beautiful design produced waves of delight and dismay from London to Tokyo. Some may say that's movement enough.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from the 1960 film "La Dolce Vita" -- A show at the Guggenheim Museum about postwar Italian culture prefigures the breakdown of the modern movement under the relentless glare of the paparazzi's cameras. (Movie Still Archives)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); GREEN BUILDING (74%); POETRY (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT PIER LUIGI NERVI (58%); GIOVANNI 'GIO' PONTI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



710 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Air Fares in Europe Dip a Bit as Rules Ease

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
FOR Americans, airline deregulation, bringing no-frill flights and lower ticket prices, if also a degree of turmoil, is by now old hat.
But in Europe, airlines were until recently under the tight control of governments that not only owned the national flag carriers, but also dictated where they should fly, how often and at what fare. 
 As Keith MacMullan, the director of Avmark, London-based airline consultants, points out, the system was geared to creating jobs; partly, too, it was a matter of prestige and, often, history.
One result of all this indulgence, as anyone who has flown in Europe will know, is that ticket prices are often shockingly higher than those for comparable flights in the United States.
For example, although distance is not the sole determining factor of price, last month United quoted a fare of $634 for a round-trip economy flight from Chicago to New York, a distance of roughly 750 miles; its lowest cut-rate fare was $125 round trip. In Europe, Alitalia was charging $785 round trip for its flight from Rome to Berlin, an equivalent distance. Its lowest cut-rate fare was $410.
The system has started to change, though, since 1992, when the 11-member European Union decided on radical deregulation of the airline industry, borrowing heavily from the one carried out in the United States in the 1980's. It's a gradual evolution, however, that will slowly lift barriers until Jan. 1, 1997, the target date for fully open skies over Europe. But the effects are already being felt. Competition is increasing and, in some cases, fares are already coming down.
For one thing, national carriers may now plunge into markets from which they were once banned. British Airways, for example, now operates a subsidiary in France, TAT European Airlines, and one in Germany, Deutsche BA. This summer Lufthansa was forced to offer reduced one-way fares, some as low as $65, for flights between German cities, to compete with the British.
The new rules also permit a carrier like British Airways, on a route from say, London via Paris to Lyons, France, to fill up to 50 percent of the seats on its plane in Paris with passengers going to Lyons. By 1997 the 50 percent limit will be lifted entirely.
In some cases, new private lines, like Hamburg Air in Germany, have been founded. In others, charter airlines are going after scheduled routes. Thus, in France, Air Liberte, one of the country's largest charter carriers, is bidding for a license to offer scheduled flights on the heavily-traveled route from Paris to Toulouse, to break the monopoly of the Air France subsidiary Air Inter. In Switzerland, which though not a European Union member has been swept along on the wings of deregulation, a small private airline, TEA Basel, is seeking a license for the busy Geneva-to-Zurich link. TEA plans to set its fare at 240 Swiss francs, roughly $187, or 40 percent below Swissair's price of 398 francs, and only slightly higher than the 194 francs it costs for a first-class train ticket on the same route.
The competition is upsetting some European governments, whose unprofitable national carriers can only be kept aloft thanks to immense subsidies. But industry analysts expect the trend to continue.
One result of the current domination of national carriers is a skewed system of hubs and spokes. Air traffic is often not where the travelers are, but where the national capitals are. Thus, hand in hand with deregulation comes an ambitious plan, the European Air Traffic Control Harmonization and Integration Program, to overhaul Europe's clogged air traffic control system. The plan will not be fully in place until 2015, but by next year a central office in Brussels will begin tracking European flights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%); AF (PAR) (50%); AF (AMS) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3563 AIR & GAS COMPRESSORS (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); LYON, FRANCE (92%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (91%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); FRANCE AIR SA (51%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); LYON, FRANCE (92%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; NYTRAVEL; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY AIRLINES (93%); DEREGULATION (92%); AIR FARES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (91%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



711 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2013 words

HEADLINE: Should UConn Football Go Big Time?

BYLINE: By JACK CAVANAUGH 

 BODY:
IN the classic Marx brothers movie "Horse Feathers," Groucho Marx as Professor Wagstaff, the new president of Huxley College, faces with a dilemma. Professor Wagstaff wants to field a football team to draw attention to the school. But that would necessitate the building of a stadium. When told by the trustees that the school can't afford both a stadium and a college, Wagstaff replies, "Well, then let's tear down the college."
No one has suggested that the University of Connecticut, in its zeal to upgrade its football team to major-power status, take a similar tack. But at least some members of the UConn faculty think that the proposed upgrade, if implemented, could cause a university already hard-pressed for funds even more serious financial problems. 
 Finding the money to build a stadium that would hold at least 30,000 spectators (necessary to qualify for Division I-A standing, the highest in collegiate sports) to replace the existing 16,200-seat Memorial Stadium on campus is one of major obstacles the university would face if the school's trustees approve (as expected) a recommendation to upgrade the football program.
At a time when many of its buildings are in disrepair, the staff is being sharply reduced, new equipment is badly needed, the budget deficit is rising and the enrollment shrinking, the trustees believe they can solve many problems by spending millions of dollars to field a football team that would compete against schools like Syracuse, Miami and Pittsburgh. The rationale, as explained in a report by a 20-member committee composed primarily of UConn faculty, is that a big-time football program would generate substantial revenue that would benefit the entire university and put it in a class with state universities in Michigan, Virginia and Wisconsin.
While most students appear to favor the proposed shift -- which, if it develops, would not occur for at least four years -- about two-thirds of the faculty feel that it would diminish the perception of the university, according to a poll taken last March. Last week, the University Senate, which is made up largely of faculty members, plus administrators, staff members and students, voted down, 29-21, a motion by the group's executive committee favoring the upgrading of the football program to Division I-A status.
Much of the impetus for the football upgrade stems from the success of the men's and women's varsity basketball teams, which have attracted national attention in recent years. Those successes created "Husky mania" throughout the state. Largely because of the inordinate attention given to the men's basketball tem, which is already at the Division I-A level, coupled with the proposed shift by the football program, Bruce M. Stave, the chairman of the history department, was moved to say, "Sometimes I get the feeling that we're the Husky University, as opposed to the University of Connecticut."
Regarding the proposed upgrading of the football team, Dr. Stave said, "The big question is how such an upgrading would affect the academics at the university."
"Athletics is an important part of academic life, but in some cases it puts the emphasis in the wrong place," said Dr. Stave, who is the head of the UConn chapter of the American Association of University Professors. "It's nice to be known for your athletics, but it's even more important to be known for your academics. You have to ask whether a kid is coming to UConn because of the excellent education it offers or to go to a basketball game. The real question is balance. If we'e going to upgrade the football team, I personally would like some guarantees. For example, for every dollar put into upgrading football, I'd like to see three dollars go toward academic needs. And I'd also like to be assured that academic standards won't be lowered for football players."
Members of the committee that recommended the football upgrading have insisted that neither admission requirements nor academic standards would be lowered. "That would not be done," said John Allen, a professor of geography at UConn and the committee member who drafted most of the 35-page report submitted to the trustees earlier this month following a detailed analysis by the consulting firm Coopers & Lybrand. "It used to be you could admit athletes and sort of tuck them away academically, but you can't do that anymore."
What makes the football plan somewhat paradoxical is both the team's mediocre record on the Division I-AA level (the team lost five of its first eight games this season) and the relatively small number of spectators (an average of about 8,500 to a home game, although attendance has been up this season, in part because of a new coach with a famous football name: Skip Holtz, the son of Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz). Why would a divisional upgrade make a difference?
"It would be a totally different situation," said Lew Perkins, the UConn director of athletics. "First of all, as a member of the Big East in football, as well as basketball, we'd be much more attractive to prospective recruits and would recruit nationally. And now, while we might draw a crowd of 10,000 against Rhode Island, which is a big rival, we probably would have 45,000 for a game against Boston College or Syracuse if we were upgraded to Division I-A."
Mr. Perkins, who is a member of the committee on I-A football, pointed out that the idea of UConn moving up to I-A in football is not a new one. "When I came in more than four years ago, I was asked to put together all the necessary facts pertaining to a possible move to I-A," said Mr. Perkins who had been athletic director at two Division I-A schools, Maryland and Wichita State. "And when the Big East decided to expand as a football conference, it opened a window of opportunity for us."
Mr. Perkins also cited the committee report's warning that schools in major sports conferences might eventually form a "super tier" exclusive of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. "Schools that are Division I-A in only one major sport, as we are, could be left out," he said. "So it's in our interest to upgrade to I-A as soon as we can. And if we do, academic standards will not be compromised. They shouldn't be and they won't."
But several faculty members are concerned that they might. "You need both quality and quantity on the Division I-A level and the temptation to bend the rules is very strong," said Peter Barth, a professor of economics who previously taught at Ohio State University. "When I was at Ohio State, there was an excessive degree of concentration on the football team, and it was common knowledge that if Woody Hayes wanted a player, he was in, and stayed in, regardless of his academic work. And it scares me that we might do something to lower our standards."
Dr. Barth, who received his graduate degree at Michigan, a longtime national footbll power, also said he was skeptical that a UConn I-A football team would be a revenue producer. (This year's team is expected to lose $1.9 million, about average for the Connecticut football program.) "You can wind up losing big time by going to Division I-A," he said. "You're bound to spend much more money for everything from scholarships to a stadium, to more sophisticated weight rooms, academic counselors and so on. As the revenues go up, so, too, will the costs.
"If you win, then even more money will be spent on athletics. And if you fail, people aren't going to pay to see the games. And I'm very suspicious that we can have a winning football team on the I-A level since we haven't been successful in the past or even now. I don't think there's any way the university will become economically enriched by upgrading the football program."
To upgrade the football program, the budget for the team would have to be more than doubled -- to about $6 million from $2.26 million. As a Division I-A member, UConn would increase the number of its football scholarships from 62 to 85, with about $1.3 million allocated to the university's women's sports programs in accordance with the requirements of Title IX, a Federal regulation that mandates matching funds for women's sports programs.
Beyond those costs would be the expense of building a new stadium, most likely in Hartford, 22 miles west of the UConn campus in Storrs. A year and a half ago, the state's legislature authorized the expenditure of $252.1 million for construction of a 65,000-capacity stadium in downtown Hartford in an unsuccessful effort to lure the New England Patriots of the National Football League.
At least one study has said that a 40,000-seat stadium could be built for about $120 million. That money would have to come from the state, posing a major issue for a new governor. (While a stadium was being built, UConn might play its home games at the 67,000-seat Yale Bowl.)
For all the euphoria that the proposal has created -- visions of UConn playing Miami in a spanking new stadium in a nationally televised football game -- skeptics abound.
"In my opinion, it represents a perversion of values and the idea is outlandish," said David Ivry, a UConn professor emeritus of insurance. "We need a new chemistry building, the library is in very bad shape, and we have so many other major needs."
Professor Ivry and others feel that the committee that recommended the upgrading was not representative. "I think it was a rigged committee," he said. "For instance, it does not include anyone from the faculty who has spoken out publicly against the proposal." Members were picked primarily by Lewis B. Rome, the chairman of the university's board of trustees and a strong supporter of the move to Division I-A.
Like many faculty members and some alumni, Professor Ivry thinks sports, and particularly basketball, has come to overshadow the school's academic achievements.
"I go into the Hartford Club and everyone is talking about the UConn basketball team -- never about anything else at the school," he said. "I think that far too much attention is paid to athletics at UConn. And that's a shame. You seldom hear the University of Connecticut associated with high-quality academics, and it's an excellent school, which I love very much."
But John Allen, the geography professor who wrote most of the committee's report, said he was convinced that upgrading the football program would enhance the university's reputation as an academic institution. "Upgrading the football program is a mechanism to get our name before the public on a broader scale," he said. "It will give UConn greater national visibility and it will better enable us to focus on the excellence of our faculty and our academic programs. In the long run, it will help us improve our physical plant and increase our research, among other things. If I and the committee as a whole didn't think it would do these things, we would not have recommended that the football program be upgraded."
Professor Ivry and many faculty members disagree. "The idea of going to Division I-A is plain crazy," he said. "Our focus should be on making UConn a great school, not elevating its mediocre football program."
But Professor Ivry and others on the faculty feel there is nothing they can do to prevent the trustees from approving the committee's recommendation, perhaps as early as next month.
"This is a done deal," said Edward Kostiner, a professor of chemistry and an outspoken opponent of the proposal. "We're talking about a situation where we have totally skewed priorities among the administration, meaning President Harry Hartley and the board of trustees."
"We cannot afford the luxury of what it would cost to go to Division I-A in football when it would be at the expense of other areas on campus where there are tremendous needs," Professor Kostiner said. "It would be obscene to spend $150 to $200 million on a new football stadium when we need new dormitories and so many other things and when the faculty is being cut. How can you in good conscience spend that kind of money to upgrade a football team?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT DIVISION I-A (62%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); HISTORY (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); 

PERSON: CAVANAUGH, JACK BRUCE M STAVE (59%); JOHN MAJOR (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



712 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Franchised Hayrides: Halloween Hits

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI 

 BODY:
AMID the glow of a harvest moon, a cold wind rustles leaves down a country lane. With a mechanical groan, a tractor tows its burden: a hay-strewn wagon packed with both young and old.
In the distance looms a hangman's tree with a fresh victim. As the wagon passes beneath the swaying figure, its noosed head cocked to one side, the dangling body bellows an unearthly shriek and wriggles in apparent pain. 
 Some passengers scream, others recoil and parents clutch children protectively. Around the bend, the glow of a witch's bubbling cauldron comes into view. A thrill of fear is in the air, as well as the aroma of doughnuts and fresh apple cider.
Across the state with Halloween fast approaching, traditional hayrides organized by farmers on their acreage or by community groups in public parks are making way for haunted hayrides offering good-natured scares. In recent years, imaginative entrepreneurs are taking advantage of the short festive season and the chance to generate profits.
The latest marketing trend: franchised haunted hayrides complete with a training staff, how-to manuals and a suggested checklist of frights and horrors to make even the bravest souls squirm.
Haunted Hay Rides Inc., of Liverpool, N.Y., just north of Syracuse, has several franchises in New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. For Robert Paige, who owns and operates the Suntan Lake recreation area in Riverdale, in Morris County, the hayride venture has been his hedge against a sluggish local economy.
"In the last few years here, we've had some pretty tough times," Mr. Paige said. In past years, vacationers spent freely, and with outdoor concerts and corporate picnics, he said, "we did O.K., but lately people have less in their pockets to spend, thanks to the economy, and lots of companies have scaled down, so we needed to find something do something to carry us through." Mr. Paige's answer was to extend his season through Halloween and to buy into the franchise.
He invested $30,000 last year -- $10,000 for a franchising fee and the rest toward the purchase or rental of such equipment as tractors and wagons, costumes, sound systems and special effects. Mr. Paige and his regular staff then rounded up part-time employees to portray ghosts and goblins and to be tour guides and tractor drivers, "all types and ages who could use the money and didn't mind having a lot of fun while on the job," he said.
The venture has been a success, Mr. Paige says, and while he admits that he could have undertaken such a project on his own, the franchise offers support and logistics that would have taken him months if not years to prepare.
"Bang, it was all right there and the bases were covered," he said. "All we needed to do was put it all together like a puzzle and remember what we had done for the following year."
Last season, he said, "I broke about even, but this year we should do very well for ourselves, if the weather is kind to us and everything goes according to schedule, which it never seems to do."
Under the franchise agreement, Mr. Paige must return 10 percent of his gross profits to the parent company each year. Tickets for the 35-minute-long hayride are $9.95 for adults and $7.95 for children 5 to 12 years old. Even though his season consists of only 16 evenings, he has averaged 1,200 customers a night, with as many as 2,000 a night on Saturdays and Sundays. His season comes to an end on Nov. 1, All Saints' Day.
There are rules and regulations as well. Tour guides tell rider not to kick or punch the specters that stalk the ride. And above all, there is no smoking.
Since a 1984 blaze at a haunted castle attraction at the Six Flags Great Adventure amusement park in Jackson that killed eight teen-agers, municipalities have given closer scrutiny to such operations.
Lisa Beach, a spokeswoman for Great Adventure, said the park follows local fire safety rules and enforces a no-smoking policy at its hayride, part of a Halloween-themed program called Frightfest that runs through Monday. The park management chose not to rebuild the popular attraction after the fire.
For Richard A. Singer of Wyckoff, who operates the "Greenhouse of Fear" attraction at Tice's Farm in Woodcliff Lake, fire and safety regulations meant that he needed to spend some $5,000 on fire-retardant materials before he could open for business.
"The place was crawling with inspectors, and that's only right," he said. "There's not one thing in here that isn't fire retardant, from black tarps to costumes. You have to think about safety above anything else."
For Kathleen L. Vryhof and her husband, Michael, the Suntan Lake operation is a saving grace against unemployment. The West Milford couple portray the "butcher and his latest victim" at one of 15 stops on the route.
While her husband's income as a laundry service deliveryman is steady, she recently lost her job at a pet shop and has had little luck finding other work.
"I've got applications all over the place, at least a dozen, and I know at the very least one will come through for me," Mrs. Vryhof said, "and while this particular night job might be a bit unusual, it's still a job and it still helps out with the bills."
For $5.35 an hour, she gets lopped into pieces by her mad butcher husband and made into a stew. Mrs. Vryhof said that they are usually giddier than the children they entertain and that they are having "a bloody good time of it, at that."
Robert and Joi Small, also of West Milford, say the extended season also helps them financially. Both are beer concessionaires at Suntan Lake in the summer, and their combined income at odd jobs carries them through the winter.
"I can't say that this is the oddest job that we've both had, but it sure ranks up there," said Mrs. Small, who was a guide on the wagon tour for which her husband drives the tractor. "We're making some extra money, and as a team we have this great banter back and forth which really draws in the audience," she said.
Not everyone agrees that the rapid growth of the haunted hayrides is a good idea. Richard Hanf of Hamburg and Mr. Singer say that a Halloween franchise is an insult to a tradition based on spontaneity.
"When I think of a franchise, I think of McDonald's, I think of Burger King or a car dealership," said Mr. Hanf, known by many in Sussex County as the "Phantom of Hamburg" and for his transformation of a fairytale gingerbread castle, a children's attraction off Route 23N, into a haunted castle each year at this time.
"You have to have originality, not a script or a how-to book that says, 'This will scare people and this will not,' " he said. "If I want a cold piece of chicken, extra crispy, I go to a franchise, but if I want something different, I cook it up myself. Preferably in a cauldron."
Mr. Singer, who calls himself the "King of Halloween," said: "Fear is best when it's imagined and comes from some place in the deepest innermost recesses of your mind. What we do has to be born from a nightmare, not a manual; otherwise people see right through it and that trick-or-treat anticipation, which is what Halloween is all, about is lost."
Mr. Hanf and Mr. Singer, who as youngsters so overdecorated their front lawns for the day that the displays caused traffic jams in their neighborhoods, have another thing in common that might explain their fondness for Halloween: it is their birthday.
Mr. Paige brushes aside such criticism.
"Our franchise guidelines are just that, and nothing is cut in stone, no pun intended," he said. "Each actor, each person brings a little special magic into the part they play. After all, beyond the bump in the night, it's a little bit of magic that we're all after in our lives, isn't it?"
In Woodcliff Lake, a hayride haunted the dreams of Peter Van Riper until he decided to put one in place on land he and his Dutch ancestors had farmed since 1791. Buying into a franchise was the farthest thing from his mind, he said.
"We started off with a tractor pull through a cornfield, called it the Moonlight Hay Ride and charged a buck a ride," Mr. Van Riper said. "That was four years ago, and you should have seen the lines! The next year we added scares for the kids, and it just got bigger and better."
Pumpkin sales went up and so did business in general, but most of all, he recalled, was the satisfaction he derived from making a traditional holiday more enjoyable for children.
"This ride is a lot of work, a lot of time and preparation," he said, adding that because his farm was a popular spot for pumpkin picking, "I didn't need to do this."
"But I see the glow in these kids' eyes, just as I see it in my grandchildren's eyes," he said, "and all the trouble that it might be doesn't seem to matter very much."
Open from Wednesday through Saturday from 7:30 to 10 P.M., the hayride costs $5 for an adult and $3 for a child. It includes a stop at a ghastly cemetery where ghouls have been known to rise from the grave and where a menacing Jason chases the unwary with a chain saw.
In past years, Mr. Van Riper said, he has averaged 6,000 visitors a season. "My staff gets as much fun out of this as the kids do," he said, saying that they also like the extra money. They create their own costumes "and usually fight amongst themselves about who is on schedule for the night."
But the fall pumpkin picking that has spanned generations at his farm is about to end. Mr. Van Riper's children have pursued careers other than agriculture. The property has been sold, and the farm will close when he retires at the end of the year.
"For all the years here, I guess I just wanted to be remembered for doing something special for people," he said, "and this hayride is something that myself and others will carry with them for a lifetime."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scaring people for fun and profit at Halloween time is the idea of hayrides at the Suntan Lake recreation area in Riverdale. (Photographs by Lenore Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN; FRANCHISES HALLOWEEN (90%); FRANCHISING (88%); TRENDS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); 

PERSON: PARISI, ALBERT J ROBERT PAIGE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



713 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 55; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: What Do Women Earn?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In her letter (Oct. 9) responding to my review of Judy Mann's book "The Difference: Growing Up Female in America," Valerie J. Lofland takes me to task for the statement that "the wage gap . . . has almost closed for young women," and reels off some statistics to prove me wrong. Yet most of her statistics have nothing to do with young women (to whom I specifically referred); the only one that is age-specific proves my point: "Among workers between the ages of 15 and 24, women earn 93 percent of what men make." (In fact, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the 1993 figure was 94.8 percent; for women between the ages of 20 and 24, it was 95.4 percent.) 
 Ms. Lofland asserts, however, that "the wage gap widens as women mature," since women between 55 and 59 years of age make only 62 percent of their male counterparts' earnings. This assertion is pure fallacy, since it seems to assume that these wage ratios apply to the same women at different stages in their lives. The women who are now between the ages of 55 and 59, as a rule, did not expect to be in the labor force for any significant portion of their adult lives; few of them trained for careers the way their male peers did. Many of them have resumed work after a 20- or 30-year hiatus.
The consensus among economists today is that while a small part of the wage gap may be due to sexual discrimination, there are too many other factors involved -- the fact that women are more likely to take time off from labor force participation, work fewer hours in a week and are less likely to take jobs requiring long commutes; differences in education and experience -- to pinpoint sexist bias as the primary reason. One may say that the social patterns responsible for these differences are also sexist. They are, however, changing rapidly.
Ms. Lofland asks whether I have been "on Mars" for the last 20 years. I must wonder where she has been for the last 15, when the female-to-male earnings ratio, after stagnating or even declining for years, began to rise dramatically as millions of young women with career aspirations similar to those of the men in their age group began to enter the market.
 
CATHY YOUNG
Middletown, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: DIFFERENCE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS WOMEN (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); STATISTICS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, CATHY; MANN, JUDY; LOFLAND, VALERIE J VALERIE J LOFLAND (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



714 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: PAYING FOR KEEPS

 BODY:
All New Yorkers, regardless of economic class, are poor when it comes to trees and fresh air (The Big City: "Paying for Keeps," by John Tierney, Oct. 9). Central Park has been providing a bit of nature to rich and poor alike as part of its mandate since its inception, this despite many historical attempts to restrict its use. While the park's restoration funding may come from private sources, this has never compromised its access, remarkable in a city that sets standards for high-priced luxuries and services. 
 Central Park is the one great place in New York where I can go without measuring the experience against the amount of money it costs me. The last thing those who enjoy the park want is to have a policeman stop them and demand to see admission tickets. (I'd love to see this tried on some of the Rollerblade enthusiasts.)
 
ROBERT EGERT
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CENTRAL PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); 

PERSON: EGERT, ROBERT; TIERNEY, JOHN JOHN P TIERNEY (73%); JOHN F TIERNEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



715 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2791 words

HEADLINE: Now, It's the Rick Scott Health Plan

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla.

 BODY:
THE Clinton health plan flopped. All the alternatives that 435 Representatives and 100 Senators could concoct went nowhere.
Now, it's time for the Scott plan. 
 "What's happening in Washington is not health care reform," said Richard L. Scott, founder and chief executive of the Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation, the world's largest hospital chain. "Health care reform is happening in the marketplace."
Mr. Scott, tall and rousing, traverses the nation as if running to take Mr. Clinton's place. Last Tuesday, he was speaking to local officials and hospital executives over dinner here. In a hotel setting that called to mind a political fund raiser, he presented, often by tactful implication, the day's campaign theme: Choose me and my company, and your Tampa General Hospital could become a money maker, delivering improved health care -- just like my 14 area hospitals and 6 centers for day surgery that are taking away at least a few of Tampa General's patients.
No need for Mr. Scott to note that Tampa General, tax-supported but almost two-thirds empty, is heading for financial disaster.
"We can provide a better product at a better price. And by the way," he later said, pausing to sneer at the nonprofit hospitals that account for the bulk of the health care industry, "we pay taxes."
With slides and maps and statistics, he explained how the Scott plan is taking effect at the 311 hospitals and 125 clinics his company owns or has agreed to buy in 37 states and two foreign countries, a network that comprised fewer than 30 hospitals just 14 months ago. Employers are out to curb health care expenses, and through managed care organizations, they are steering employees away from proud research, teaching and indigent care institutions like Tampa General and toward hospitals like his that boast of lower costs.
"If you can't appeal to managed care providers, you will not be in business," Mr. Scott warned his Tampa listeners. Hospitals like his, he continues, have helped to cut health care inflation from the double digits to 4.7 percent.
In a heavily regulated and Government-financed business, Mr. Scott, a 41-year-old lawyer, has become the unelected champion of the relentlessly free market. Earlier this month, he topped off the American medical industry's greatest shopping spree with a deal to add Healthtrust Inc.'s 116 hospitals for $5 billion. Last year, he agreed to buy the HCA-Hospital Corporation of America, which had been the largest hospital company, and Galen Health Care Inc., one of the largest, for a total of more than $13 billion. He added Medical Care America Inc., the largest chain of day, or outpatient, surgery centers, for another billion earlier this year. His company, only seven years old, is now three times the size of the next-largest hospital chain, the soon-to-merge National Medical Enterprises and American Medical Holdings.
But with numbers like those, and much bigger ones in his plans, critics are asking whether Mr. Scott is growing too big, too fast.
"Mr. Scott seems intent on purchasing almost any institution at any price to get into a market," said Daniel P. Bourque, the research manager for VHA Inc., an association of the nation's nonprofit, or voluntary, hospitals. "He likes to say they're going to be the Wal-Mart of health care. The question is, when you get sick do you want to go to Wal-Mart?"
The financial stakes many Columbia/HCA doctors have in their local hospital networks, some outsiders say, can conflict with the best medical decisions. In the race for profits, some fear that the poor and uninsured may be left behind. As the company snaps up market share, they say, Mr. Scott could end up with local monopoly control, able to raise prices even as he slashes costs.
Mr. Scott says he is prepared to match the quality of care at his hospitals with that of any in the industry. And he is clearly not about to stop growing. To a questioner last week, who raised antitrust issues, Mr. Scott said he has never captured as much as 40 percent of any major local market, and has slightly more than 4 percent of a huge but fragmented national market.
"The Catholics have 16 percent," he said. "Now, they're not all organized into one system. But we pay $750 million in state, Federal and local income taxes, and we provide $750 million in uncompensated care."
Now he is going after the heart of the medical business: the not-for-profits -- or the "non-taxpaying," as he insistently says -- among them all the academic, religious and public hospitals that still account for more than five-sixths of the industry. He wants to expand the strong, shut down the weak and leave rival hospitals wondering where their patients went.
"Whenever he is riding into town, the hospital people are soiling their diapers," said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University. "He can get things done that Government hasn't been able to do in 20 years. He is a private capitalist dictator."
In states like Florida, where Columbia/HCA already has more than 20 percent of the market, competing hospitals are rapidly forming their own networks and cutting their costs. State by state, Mr. Scott is urging the repeal of certificate-of-need laws, which limit his expansion, and the passage of indigent care laws requiring nonprofits to provide treatment worth as much as the taxes they would otherwise pay. Although nonprofits were founded to provide charity care, Mr. Scott says, many now virtually exclude the poor.
Since the Scott plan has no place for the Clinton plan's medical spending limits, he encouraged his hospitals to organize political committees to survey and interview candidates at all levels, then circulate the candidates' views. Employees conduct voter registration drives and contribute to a company political action committee. "I WANT YOU TO WRITE A LETTER," a stern Uncle Sam commands Mr. Scott's staff from a poster near his office in the company's headquarters in Louisville, Ky.
THE big political figures he takes on face-to-face. He has lectured Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan on how to gather reliable medical cost statistics. He warned the Senate Majority Leader, George Mitchell, who tried to pass the Clinton plan in some form, that any attempt to cap overall medical spending would provoke him to open hospitals across the Canadian and Mexican borders. He told Hillary Rodham Clinton that he could do more to control medical costs than she could.
Ira Magaziner, a senior health care adviser to the President, responded in an interview that the private sector often fails to provide enough care, especially for center cities, rural areas and the poor. "Competition among integrated health plans can help bring down growth in costs," he said. "Our only concern is now it's happening out there in the marketplace without adequate consumer protection."
So far, it's unclear whether patients will have as much to cheer about as Mr. Scott's investors. Mr. Bourque's organization provides studies indicating that the nonprofits deliver proportionally more Medicare and Medicaid treatment and charge lower prices than the profit-making chains. In Florida, where investor-owned hospitals are especially strong, they provided less than a fifth the rate of charity care as the nonprofits in 1992.
In fact, investor-owned chains long specialized in skimming off the wealthy and well-insured, leaving others to the nonprofits. Mr. Bourque finds Mr. Scott's strategy especially galling since he captures doctors and their patients by inviting the physicians to invest in his hospitals.
Mr. Scott says that his company has broken sharply with the industry's past by giving doctors and employees incentives to economize. Only about 12 percent of his revenues come from traditional insurers willing to pay full price. The rest is roughly split between Government health plans and managed care groups, who demand fixed discounts.
Industry analysts say his mergers appear to be delivering the hundreds of millions of dollars in annual savings he predicted.
"We are the largest buyers of medical supplies in the world," Mr. Scott told his Tampa audience last week. "Baxter Travenol has $5 billion worth of U.S. sales. I can give them $800 million or nothing. You think they will give me a better price?"
Mr. Scott delivered his comments rapidly but in a manner so calmly matter-of-fact that they were somehow reassuring. Listeners who had expected a medical robber baron instead got a practiced politician, one who took pains to avoid visibly pressuring them into what would be an unpopular decision.
Mr. Scott struggles to keep himself from thumping his chest too loudly, now that he is learning how poorly the public, not to mention the Federal Trade Commission, might take his talk of seizing markets and killing off competitors in a field whose leaders are supposed to speak of providing selfless care and humane treatment.
"It doesn't sound so good when I say that, 'Golly, I'm going to compete against a tax-exempt hospital,' " he said in an interview earlier in the week at his Louisville headquarters.
Only when told that Richard E. Rainwater, the Fort Worth investor and cofounder of Columbia/HCA, expects the company to grow fourfold or more over the next 10 or 12 years, owning as many as a fifth of the nation's hospitals, does Mr. Scott drop his guard a bit. Yes, some company will probably get there, he said, and yes, it will probably be his.
For a company already one of the nation's 40 largest, in a league with Time Warner and Coca-Cola, that growth would vault it into the top six or eight, up there with I.B.M., G.E. and, yes, Wal-Mart.
His company, still less well known than others of its size, avoids slapping the Columbia name on its hospitals. They remain concentrated in the Sunbelt, but Mr. Scott says that his drive to buy nonprofit hospitals will lead to all 50 states.
HE is bent, however, on forging a huge company without becoming a huge target. There is no hiding his net worth of $240 million in Columbia/HCA stock, nor the company jet. But Mr. Scott now camps out in a squat office building furnished with steel file cabinets and plastic laminated conference tables.
He stands as ready to help the United Way and other charitable causes as companies accused of blackening smokers' lungs or Alaskan shorelines. He brings up his humble origins, in Kansas City, Mo., so often -- his father a trucker, his mother a clerk at J. C. Penney, among other jobs -- that his aides have asked him to give some of his yarns a rest.
"You'll hear a lot of doughnut shop stories," said David T. Vandewater, an evidently secure chief operating officer, referring to the business Mr. Scott ran with his mother and brother while in college. "I'm glad he's had other experiences in life."
Mr. Scott now accumulates those experiences beginning at 5 A.M. daily. He works out on a treadmill, stair climber and weight machine, catches the morning news and begins concentrating on his next steps toward the short, medium and long-term goals he keeps on lists in his desk drawer. As if to make his own streamlined form a model for his company, he neither smokes nor drinks.
He is one of the few whose discipline, in exercise and in business, inspires awe even in Mr. Rainwater. "Probably the lowest body fat of anybody I've been in business with," said Mr. Rainwater, whose standard of comparison includes partners like Roger Staubach, the former Dallas Cowboys star.
Mr. Scott's wife, Ann, with whom he has two daughters, and his board chairman, Thomas F. Frist Jr., have asked him to lighten up. Mr. Scott's reluctant response has been to delay his 6 A.M. Monday teleconferences by an hour, after Mr. Frist and other executives of his newly acquired HCA hospital chain, based in Nashville, complained that the time difference forced them to stand ready at 5 A.M.
Mr. Scott usually devotes three days a week to his campaign swings, which have already taken him to 141 of his 195 hospitals, not counting the Healthtrust properties. To check up on competitors and expand his list of acquisition targets, currently at 75 hospitals or companies, he drops in on other hospitals, often unannounced.
HIS Florida trip included a meeting with The Tampa Tribune editorial board, on a day when the paper's lead story was about the resignation of Tampa General's president, under pressure from board members who feared that he was too ready to deliver his hospital into Mr. Scott's arms.
"We would be a logical partner for Tampa General," Mr. Scott told the somewhat skeptical writers. He mentioned Columbia's partnerships with other teaching hospitals, including the University of Louisville, with Emory in Atlanta in the works. But just the next day, on Wednesday, Emory ended discussions, amid misgivings about the sharing of profits and authority.
Still, the writers noted that other hospital chains, long active in Florida, had never bothered sending their chief executives around.
"What you are doing really seems to be in the mainstream of what American businesses are doing, whether it's Wal-Mart or the banks," said the editorial page editor, Edwin A. Roberts Jr., before starting another Q. and A. volley over whether Mr. Scott had monopolistic designs.
From there, Mr. Scott and his aides raced a half hour or so across a Tampa Bay bridge to their St. Petersburg General Hospital. Mr. Scott thanked his 30 administrators, seated like campaign workers around a candidate, for letting politicians know how they felt about health care reform.
Then he zipped through the hospital, fertilizing his company's grass roots by handing out company pins and shaking as many of his employees' 700 right hands as he could.
"Whose patients are you stealing?" he demanded of one administrator as he toured obstetrics.
"Community Health Systems," she answered. "We want their deliveries."
"I don't understand why they're open," he said.
"We're hurting them," she assured him.
He then sped back across the bay, where the departed Tampa General Hospital president had invited Mr. Scott's regional manager to speak that night. Mr. Scott came instead.
"Did he arrive in a stretch limo?" asked Lois L. Nixon, a medical professor and board member who favors keeping the hospital public. (No, it was his regional manager's Lexus.)
AFTER Mr. Scott finished his slide show and speech, Ms. Nixon asked whether he even saw a reason to keep the big urban hospitals public.
"You have a hard time staying in business if all you attract is indigent care," he answered, having noted that his network could feed these hospitals paying patients as well.
Listeners who found his message unwelcome were, by evening's end, at least willing to consider questions beyond his executive travel style. Having resented other proposals to privatize Tampa General, Fred M. Kanter, a maverick board member, found Mr. Scott's talk disarming. Maybe too much so.
"Of all the proponents of the various plans, he's probably the most dangerous," Mr. Kanter said. "Because he's the most skilled."
 
 
 
FROM TEXAS TO KENTUCKY TO . . .
 LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- MEMO to Columbia/HCA headquarters employees here: Keep your bags and boxes packed. A year is enough time in one place for Rick Scott.
Mr. Scott, the chief executive, moved his headquarters from Fort Worth in August 1993 when he bought Galen Health Care, based here.
Two months later, when he agreed to buy the HCA chain, based in Nashville, he reopened the question. Soon after, "Louisville Loves Columbia Healthcare" billboards sprouted by the highways and 200 local businesses offered discounts and gifts to any company employee moving from Nashville.
"Recruiting Columbia/HCA is a lot like trying to date the richest kid in school," wrote Bob Hill, a Louisville Courier-Journal columnist. "Where do you draw the line between good-faith guarantees and groveling?"
In March, after Columbia exacted a promise from state lawmakers to let a 2.5 percent tax on doctors and hospitals lapse and reached a lucrative new contract to manage the University of Louisville Hospital, Mr. Scott agreed to stay.
Then, he says, the lawmakers extended the tax. When the city's corporate recruiters ran a full-page magazine advertisement boasting of Columbia's decision to stay, Mr. Scott sent angry letters to 300 executives and public officials.
Now, he is very publicly looking for a new home. While in Tampa last week, he dangled the possibility of moving there. "We just bought a 19-foot boat for water skiing," he told the Tampa Tribune editorial board.
Any coincidence that he is also seeking to run Tampa General Hospital? "None," he later said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Health care reform is happening in the marketplace," says Richard L. Scott, with some of his doctors in Louisville, Ky. (Keith Williams for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Mr. Scott has "probably the lowest body fat of anybody I've been in business with," said Richard Rainwater, right. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times, 1991)(pg. 6)
 
Graphs: "The Rapid Growth of a Medical Empire" shows recent Columbia/HCA Healthcare purchases, Columbia/HCA Healthcare revenues and daily closing stock prices since May 1990. (Sources: Company reports; Datastream)(pg. 6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (93%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (93%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (93%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (93%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (62%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORP HCA HOLDINGS INC (93%); HEALTHTRUST INC (62%); GALEN HEALTH CARE INC (60%); MEDICAL CARE AMERICA INC (60%); HOSPITAL CORP OF AMERICA (51%); TAMPA GENERAL HOSPITAL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORP TAMPA GENERAL HOSPITAL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) HEALTH CARE (92%); HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); OUTPATIENT SURGERY CENTERS (67%); LAWYERS (60%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (54%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; SCOTT, RICHARD L RICK SCOTT (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



716 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Fear of Mutual Fund Flows: Relax

BYLINE: By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
THERE are ghouls and ghosts and things that go bump in the night. And then there is the most frightening specter of them all (at least on Wall Street): the Mutual Fund Death Spiral.
This is the fear that a decline in the stock market will cause investors to bail out of equity mutual funds. That would force fund managers to sell stocks, driving prices down. That would spook more fund investors into fleeing into money markets, forcing fund managers to sell more stocks, driving prices down still more, spooking more fund investors and -- well, you get the picture. 
 The companies that sell funds have been arguing for years that such fears are overblown and that fund investors are in there for the long haul. Now these would-be ghostbusters have some new ammunition in the form of a statistical study done by Zwen Goy, an economist at CS First Boston.
Looking at data from 1987 through mid-1994, she found that mutual fund flows do not cause changes in the stock market. True, the market has been rising since '87, and so have sales of mutual funds. But statistically, Ms. Goy could not find a cause and effect relationship. "It's not that mutual fund flows have no consequence," she said. "But they are not the most important thing -- it's a very minor effect."
The Death Spiral is haunting the Street right now because investors seem finally to have cooled a bit on stock funds. Money is still flowing in, to be sure, but at a slower pace than earlier in the year. In September, the most recent month for which complete data are available, Americans put $8.1 billion into stock funds, a huge sum but still less than the record $14.1 billion they invested in August, according to the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry's trade and lobbying association.
And an awful lot of that money is not even going into the domestic stock market. Last month, 35 percent of the inflows went to funds specializing in foreign securities; in August, it was closer to 40 percent. Furthermore, many funds categorized as "domestic" stock funds increasingly hold big chunks of foreign stocks, though few have gone quite as far as Fidelity Capital Appreciation, which at the end of July had more than 40 percent of its assets overseas.
This month, investors cooled still further on stock funds, according to figures compiled by AMG Data Services of Arcata, Calif. Investors put an average of $1.4 billion a week into the stock funds AMG tracks, an impressive number but down sharply from an average of $2.1 billion a week back in August. The sharpest cutbacks appeared in the most aggressive United States stock funds; investors actually yanked money out of aggressive growth funds in the week ended Oct. 26.
Investors may have been reacting to lackluster market performance -- but maybe not. Ms. Goy found that not only do fund investors not cause stock market changes, they also do not react much to the market after it moves. In fact, investors put about the same amount of money into funds no matter how the stock market is doing. The reason, she said, is that most households are saving for long-term goals and don't generally play the market with mutual funds.
Admittedly, fund investors do take money out -- redeem -- or switch into money market funds more if the stock market is falling, or if they suspect it may soon do so. Even so, "we had huge redemptions in 1988, yet the market went up 15 percent that year," she noted.
At first blush, Ms. Goy's findings seem to fly in the face of the laws of supply and demand, which many people assume mean that if demand for stocks increases (as investors throw money into equity mutual funds), stock prices should rise, too. Conversely, if demand for stocks plunges (because people stop investing in mutual funds), stock prices should fall, too.
"If nothing else changes, that may be true, but so many other factors are involved," she said. Corporate earnings, overall economic growth, inflation and, primarily, interest rates all have a bigger effect on stock prices than just fund flows.
There is also the not insignificant matter of supply, noted Charles Biderman, editor of a newsletter called Liquidity Trim Tabs. For example, he said, in 1988, leveraged buyouts reduced the amount of stock outstanding while increasing the amount of cash investors had to buy stocks. This effect, he argued, more than outweighed the mutual fund redemptions.
Nevertheless, Mr. Biderman thinks that fund flows are very significant. "In every market there's a different key component to liquidity, and funds are probably key in this market," he said. "If there's an outflow from stock funds, it would be very important regardless of anything else that is going on; psychologically, fund flows are underlying everybody's bullishness."
Certainly, investors in bond funds have not sat quietly and watched their money evaporate. Through September, they pulled almost $29 billion out of funds that invest in government and mortgage-backed bonds.
And to participants in that market, these outflows seem to have had an effect on prices. As Ned Davis, a well-known technical analyst, wrote recently to his clients: "Believe me, those who have lost 19 percent in bonds over the last year know there were risks when the public wanted out of bond funds."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Attracting Cash" shows net cash flows of domestic stock mutual funds from 1987 to 1994. (Source: CS First Boston)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CS FIRST BOSTON AMG DATA SERVICES (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CS FIRST BOSTON

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; RESEARCH MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); STATISTICS (73%); LOBBYING (66%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; GOY, ZWEN

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



717 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Procter's Tale: Gambling in Ignorance

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
THE wonderful world of interest rate swaps has largely been hidden from public view. Now, as some of the big losers in the game cry foul and sue, more of it is coming to light.
Last week, Procter & Gamble became the second Cincinnati company to sue Bankers Trust. Like Gibson Greeting Cards a few weeks earlier, P.& G. sees itself as a swindled innocent that relied on the advice of a slick New York hustler and lost millions. 
 Bankers Trust, in its response to the Gibson suit, paints a far different picture. It was no trusted adviser, it says, just a trader. Gibson was a sophisticated company that made a bet on interest rates, and Bankers Trust took the other side. Gibson lost. Too bad. Its response to P.& G. is likely to be similar.
It is far too early to judge the merits of the claims, but several things are clear. Both Gibson and P.& G. ended up taking amazing risks, with the potential of huge losses if interest rates rose. Gibson says it took the riskiest of those chances only under duress, when losses were piling up from other bets whose details it will not disclose. P.& G. says it relied on promises from Bankers Trust that it could get out before the losses mounted.
Behind both cases is a trend that built up in the 1980's, of the corporate treasurer as a profit center, able to use sophisticated techniques to get more money on idle cash while saving money on borrowing. More and more they turned to banks for clever ideas and, if these cases are any example, accepted risks that they did not understand.
In a simple interest rate swap, a company that is paying a fixed rate on a bond issue is relieved of the duty to pay it, instead agreeing to pay a floating rate. That was what happened to both P.& G. and Gibson, but in their cases they agreed to complicated formulas that meant the rates they paid could soar to incredible heights. P.& G.'s formula was as follows: Six months after the deal was signed, multiply the yield on 5-year Treasuries by 17.0415 and then subtract the price of the outstanding 30-year Treasury, which had a coupon of 6.25 percent. That figure, less 0.75 percentage points, was the margin above commercial paper that would be paid, in most cases.
Under that formula, P.& G. stood to save a little if rates fell or rose just a bit, but to lose big if rates jumped. Given what actually happened to rates, P.& G. could have been forced to pay more than 30 percent a year.
P.& G. says Bankers Trust promised it could get out well before that happened, under a complicated option that Bankers Trust did not explain. P.& G. says it was told that changes in interest rates and the volatility of rates would have little effect on the price of the option. If that was said, and believed, it is breathtaking. Anyone who knew anything about option pricing would have laughed at such a claim. (Bankers Trust says there was no option deal at all, just a promise to quote a price if P.& G. wanted out early.) Eventually, P.& G. got out, but it will pay rates approaching 20 percent for four years unless the court intervenes.
These suits make it clear that corporate treasurers who said they were hedging were really gambling on declining interest rates. Perhaps they were misled by Bankers Trust, whose stock certainly has suffered since the ruckus began. But it is hard to escape the conclusion that big companies like this should not be playing games they don't understand.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing yield on 5- and 30- year treasury bonds and change of Bankers Trust stocks and the S.&P. money center bank index in 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; GIBSON GREETINGS INC; BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC) PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; GIBSON GREETINGS INC; BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS) SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (73%); LITIGATION (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); BOND ISSUES (63%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD GIBSON GREETING CARDS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



718 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3117 words

HEADLINE: Vox Pop Video: A Public Access TV Guide

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL 

 BODY:
FORGET diamonds. When it comes to public-access television, Fast Forward is a girl's best friend.
I admit I went a little overboard. In my zeal to immerse myself in the First Amendment, to revel in the joy and the right of my fellow New Yorkers to instruct me and perchance, entertain, I taped 30 hours of programming. I had the cozy notion that instead of working for a living, I would snuggle up to my comforter and watch TV, a re-enactment of my childhood ploy at playing hooky, when "Mommy, I don't feel good," translated into a full day of "I Love Lucy" and "Bewitched." 
 I did try, at first, to approach public access scientifically. There are four channels in Manhattan -- 16, 17, 34 and 69. (Each cable operator is required to provide public access; each borough has its own channels.) I searched every TV listing in every newspaper, but to no avail. I couldn't tell which show was on when. So, I set the VCR in six-hour increments at all hours of the day and night throughout one recent week. (In Manhattan, show time is essentially between 7 A.M. and 3 A.M.)
I knew that public access was open to any person or organization that applied, and that it encompassed everything from psychic readings to public hearings. With that vision of grab-bag treats, I called Alex Quinn, the executive director of the Manhattan Neighborhood Network, which programs all four channels. (And, by the way, prints a schedule of shows in its newsletter, though you have to be on the network mailing list to get it.)
"Access is a public forum where people can express views without censorship," Mr. Quinn said. "It is very local in nature and, hopefully, leads to understanding between people. It is meant as a community forum." To that end, he added, the Manhattan Neighborhood Network will teach community groups how to use its equipment, in addition to making its studio available free of charge.
Wonderful. I'm ready. I, who can never set the VCR properly, have pulled off a technological feat without the help of husband or stepsons, filling five tapes, neatly stacked near the screen. No. 1, starting on Monday, goes in, brand new comforter in place, along with smug smile. This is what I call work.
The setting is a church and the language is Spanish. The preacher is screaming. Why is he so angry ? There is no identification, no name for the show. Where am I? At the end of the half hour, it finally flashes on the screen. "Addicted to Jesus." Well, O.K. Next?
Something called Big Max New Jackz of Rap, and for 30 minutes, I can't understand a word anyone says. Too bad the kids are in school. Translation, please?
Ah, a place I can recognize. The Roosevelt Hotel, where something called the New Life Expo is in progress. The show is "Aura," and my hostess is Karen Johnson. Her guest today is a healer from the School of Enlightenment and Healing who actually admits he's a former veterinarian. "The human organism is a divine cosmic computer," he marvels. It certainly is. Especially when compared to a gerbil.
The next program has a real title, "The Haggai & Nehemiah Show." Progress? Not exactly. It turns out to be a couple taking a car trip from Maryland to Virginia who've brought along a video camera that someone is having a terrible time holding steady in the back seat. There are odd shots of the highway and telephone poles and in-depth studies of the dashboard. You would think they would have at least cleaned the windshield, but no such luck. I think they're talking about where to eat, but the sound quality is so bad I can't tell. And I realize that I have managed to get carsick while lying in bed.
I sit up. Isn't it time for me to make a dentist appointment? Balance my checkbook? Volunteer for re-assignment to Port-au-Prince?
Mr. Quinn is sympathetic.
"We are used to media being controlled and filtered to sell advertising," he says. "Access is like strolling through a park on any given day. You will find interesting people willing to share. And because it is an open forum, you will see things that are very trivial or controversial or even occasionally hurtful. But at the same time, hopefully, you will gain some insight on something you hadn't learned about before."
Or not, , says Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University and the former chairman of its interactive telecommunications program.
Almost 25 years after it was introduced in New York amid populist, interactive fanfare, Mr. Moss says public access remains "an underachieving medium."
"It takes a very aggressive effort to get people comfortable using the equipment and make sure they have access when they need it," he explains. "The product in New York certainly doesn't reflect that. The channels tend to be used by individuals fulfilling their juvenile fantasies, not by community organizations, and that isolates them from the city's cultural, social and economic life."
Part of the responsibility, he adds, lies with Manhattan Neighborhood Network.
The network, he says, "has made an inadequate effort to link the channels to the organic elements of the city. They should be out in the community with cameras at major events, not just in the studio. The point is that the potential is way greater than what is being done."
Mr. Quinn concedes: "He's partly right. Since Manhattan Neighborhood Network, which is a nonprofit organization, took over two years ago from the cable companies that ran public access, we have focused more on training and community outreach. But at the same time, we don't want to eliminate the opportunity for individuals."
O.K., so I'm not crazy, after all. On the other hand, in 30 hours there has to be some good stuff, right? Back to bed. But this time the remote control comes with me. If I'm going to stroll, I'll be the one who decides when to stop.
"A Cable to Jewish Life." Four people sit at a round table. "Shalom and welcome to Jewish life," says the rabbi/host. "The show about people and issues and some secrets you missed out on in Hebrew school."
Well, being a girl, I think I missed out on most of them. I'll try it. Today's topic is the Lubavitcher Rebbe and his legacy. All three guests, two men and a woman, are from "the financial world," and wouldn't you know it, they're all successful. Why? The Rebbe. One man talks of meeting him after the crash of 1987: "I was re-energized, a new person. He knew exactly what I was going through. I went back to Bear Stearns and everyone else was pessimistic, but he saved my career. I started to buy."
The rabbi/host nods solemnly. "So, we learn," he intones, "that God is involved even in things like the stock market." Maybe if He has a break in His schedule, He can take on public access.
"Animal News Network" with Dr. Eric Weisman follows. Today's guest is Ric O'Barry, "former trainer of the television star Flipper, also director of the Dolphin Project, whose goal is to abolish the dolphin slave trade."
"How did you make the transition from dolphin trainer to dolphin activist?" he is asked. Mr. O'Barry looks grim. "When Flipper died in my arms, which had to be a suicide because every breath a dolphin takes is a conscious effort and they can simply end their life by not taking the next breath," he says. "It was the day before Earth Day, 1970. I started taking a look at the dolphin slave trade and my participation in that industry that I helped to create. Capturing a dolphin is like a rape."
O.K., enough of that. The next step will be an attack on canned tuna and it happens to be time for lunch. Fast Forward.
When I find the "Caregivers Forum," I can finally see the upside Mr. Quinn is talking about. This is a call-in show to exchange information on caring for people with AIDS. A man talks of his experience nursing two men with different attitudes about their illness -- one welcomes help, the other doesn't -- and also takes calls. It is an informative half hour that offers other people in a similar situation the chance for some advice and a much-needed sense of company.
Similarly effective is "Dyke TV," which states its purpose at the beginning: "To incite, subvert, provoke and organize." True to its word, its disturbing opening segment tells the story of a lesbian from Florida, who, much to the consternation of her neighbors, goes to Washington to participate in a gay-rights march. While she is there, her house is literally blown up. Shots of the wreckage along with a taped demonstration and lame responses from local politicians combine to make a powerful and ugly statement about freedoms most of us in New York City, at least, take for granted. At the end of the program, there is information about how to get involved with Dyke TV. It is its own best advertisement.
Unlike "The Interesting Guys Show," which speaks specifically to those juvenile fantasies Mr. Moss referred to. This is the sorriest collection of hayseeds from Georgia, who brag, "We're gonna be really famous." Not in this lifetime, fellas, especially since your idea of entertainment is to roll a banana between the soles of your feet.
Am I veering back toward utter despair? In the nick of time, there's "John's Cabaret," starring the composer and lyricist John Wallowitch, who plays piano and takes requests by phone as he has done every week for 14 years. He may not always know the words, not to mention the key, but that doesn't stop him or his viewers from having a good time.
"John, I didn't know you when you first started, but you made me love you," says one female caller, drunkenly slurring her speech. "Will you play that for me?" Mr. Wallowitch graciously complies.
"It's a little slice of heaven," he says in a telephone interview. "In 14 years there's never been a show when the phone didn't ring. I get so many calls sometimes that they're answered off camera so I can play the requests more quickly." As to who exactly his viewers are, he says, "Joe Franklin told me that Garbo used to watch. And Betty Furness used to stop me at the grocery store. But they're not all dead. People stop me on the street all the time."
And what does he think of the other shows on public access? "Oh," he says quickly, "I try to avoid television completely if I can."
Smart man. But I still have hours to go before I sleep. I kick off the comforter. It's not comforting.
Well, here are two things I like. Premiere Movie Previews, an entire program of coming attractions: "Shawshank Redemption," "Pulp Fiction," "Star Trek: Generations," "Frankenstein." Also, I have finally made it through Monday.
 
CLOSE BUT NO CIGAR
 It's Tuesday now. Tape Two. And time for "The Golden Age of Television," presided over by someone named Ira Gallen, who smokes a cigar and seems quite miffed with Robert Redford about the veracity of "Quiz Show." But the good part is the footage he shows. Here's some of the original "$64,000 Question" with a Revlon commercial for Snow Peach, "the look that rocked the Riviera." A shade of lipstick and nail polish "seen again and again in the pages of Vogue." There is also an original Ovaltine commercial and one for the Remington electric shaver, "for the close, comfortable shave." I vote more footage, less cigar.
My index finger seems to have melded with the fast forward button. The sheer volume of programs is overwhelming. Boxing? No. Wrestling? Not in this lifetime. Mr. Quinn says that in each quarter of the year, there are close to 1,000 programs on the air. . Of those almost 700 are series, either weekly, bi-weekly or monthly. The rest are individual shows. I'm now so confused by the amount of videotape I've amassed, I can't even keep track of what day I'm on. My neat stack has toppled and that's the end of that. But if it's "Drag Queen Music Television," it would appear I've skipped to Thursday.
Here's full coverage of the cross-dressing extravaganza Wigstock on what is called "DQMTV," featuring drag performers singing "Them There Eyes." They all have big hair and wear floaty white virginal dresses. (C'mon girls. Who's kidding whom?)
Then I find "What's Happening, Beverly!" If her show doesn't catch on, Beverly can always find work as a stand-in for Sylvia Miles. Today, she meets the Ghosts, a rock band playing songs of the 50's. Beverly sits on a stool as they play, snapping her fingers and generally grooving. She's even wearing a chain belt. Is that the crash of bowling pins in the background? Never fear, Beverly. You're the toast of Piscataway.
"Shakedown Street" fails dismally at being "Wayne's World." "The purpose of our show is to talk about anything we want, the Grateful Dead and anything else that's cool," say three post-adolescent goofballs with dirty hair. They work their phones. One caller says he is taking a break from his homework. Fast Forward.
 
HOLD THE RUTABAGA

Here's Wednesday's tape. And something interesting. An advertisement for National Coming Out Day featuring Amanda Bearse, an actress on the sitcom "Married With Children."
"I'm not a straight woman, but I play one on TV," she says. "I decided to come out as a lesbian. You come out, too. Stop acting. Make the step that's right for you." Well, that was new and different. Less so is the panel discussion on coming out that follows, produced by the Human Rights Campaign Fund.
A sweet thing is called "A Day Together," a documentary about an original theatrical production created by members of the Katharine Engel Center for Older People. They rehearse, they improvise. "Everyone has a real full story inside them," says one. "And experience and wisdom."
Next is a round table on the Universal Water Metering Program sponsored by the Council of New York Cooperatives. Does metering save water? I can't say I care. The question I want answered is why does the hot water in my building only run out after the shampoo is in my hair?
When I see the title "Biker Billy Cooks With Fire" I am hooked. Biker Billy, who appears to be a Hell's Angel or related species, has long hair, a beard and sunglasses and continually yells at someone off camera named Freeze. Today he's making what he calls a "rude rutabaga pie." As the rutabagas boil, he bellows off camera, "How's that smell over there?" The next ingredient is a leek, which gives him an opportunity to look into the camera and say, "Once you've taken a leek. . . ." He covers everything with lots of pepper, red and black. He makes the crust for his creation, unabashedly, from a box of Betty Crocker Pie Crust Mix, filling the pie shells with vegetables and covering themwith cheddar cheese. "This ain't no quiche, baby," he shouts. His signoff is "Eat hot food and ride safe."
 
THANK GOD IT'S TUESDAY
 Sounds good. Even better is that I'm on my last tape and Thank God It's Friday! The only problem is I seem to have missed Friday altogether and taped extra on Tuesday. I haven't made this big a mess since I cut off the season finale of "The Simpsons."
Well, it's too late now, so Thank God it's Tuesday, time for "Lolly's Remedies." Lolly stands in the kitchen in her apartment and teaches us how to make jello shots. Her twist is to add fruit cocktail, crushed pineapple or mandarin orange slices. "Like your grandmother used to do," she says. Yes, but your grandmother wasn't slurping jello spiked with vodka where the last possible thing you want to do is chew. Details. Lolly is a deliberate instructor. We watch her fill the measuring cup with water from the tap. She opens a package of Berry Blue Jello, which looks unfortunately like toilet bowl cleaner. "People like blue drinks," she insists. "They really attract attention." She adds the liquor to the liquid jello and proceeds to fill about 30 cups. One by one.
I can't stand another moment. I pull the tape out of the VCR to see how much more there is. Too much. The Fast Forward zooms.
And stops at "Star Crazy!" featuring yet another drag performer, Lee Byar, who happens to do a good Carol Channing and a very good Liza Minnelli. And then, there she is, his piece de resistance, Marilyn Monroe, warbling "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend."
Honey, you are so wrong.
 
So You Want To Be a Producer

While public-access is essentially democratic, it does have a few guidelines. Programs cannot be commercial and cannot be obscene. Program producers must submit applications to have their shows broadcast, and application deadlines vary with the type of show (single program versus series) and the borough. How long you wait to be on TV also varies, although newcomers tend to get preference. Workshops and studios are free. Here is basic information about public-access channels in each borough, with numbers to call to find out more about how to apply.
MANHATTAN NEIGHBORHOOD NETWORK 110 East 23d Street, New York, 10010. Four channels (16, 17, 34, 69). Programming about 20 hours a day. Workshops and studio available. Open to non-Manhattan residents as well, although their use is more restricted. Information from (212) 260-2670.
BRONXNET Lehman College, Carman Hall C-4, Bronx 10468. Four channels (67, 68, 69, 70). Broadcasts 24 hours a day, including about 18 hours of programming. Open only to Bronx residents and Bronx-based organizations. Programs include "BXNY," a daily local news program. Workshops and studio available. Next training sessions begin in January. Information from (718) 960-1180.
BROOKLYN COMMUNITY ACCESS TELEVISION 30 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn 11217. Two channels (34, 67). Studio under construction, scheduled to open by next July. Open only to people with a Brooklyn address. Programming from 7 P.M. to 1 A.M., repeated the following day from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. Community bulletin board is broadcast other times. Programs include "The Urban Gardener" and "Social Security and You." Information from (718) 855-7882.
QUEENS PUBLIC TELEVISION 41-61 Kissena Boulevard, Flushing 11355. Four channels (34, 35, 56, 57). Open only to Queens residents. Waiting list at present for workshops. Two studios (one in Flushing, one in Jamaica) available. Programming 24 hours a day, with videos shown from about 10 A.M. to midnight; the rest is a community bulletin board. Channel 57 features foreign-language programs, including "Honduras News" and "The Voice of Anatolia," in Turkish. Information from (718) 886-8160.
COMMUNITY TELEVISION 100 Cable Way, Suite 2, Staten Island 10303. Four channels (24, 34, 35, 56). Training classes and workshops with no waiting list at present. Open to those who live or work on Staten Island. Programming 12 noon to 7 A.M. programs include "Politics and People" and "Video House," which features locally produced music videos. Information from (718) 727-1414.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOLLY'S REMEDIES: Advice on alcoholic-Jello concoctions and other things your grandmother probably didn't make.; A CABLE TO JEWISH LIFE: "The show about people and issues and some secrets you missed out on in Hebrew school."; DYKE TV: Videos and advice for gay women. Its stated purpose: "To incite, subvert, provoke and organize."; WHAT'S HAPPENING, BEVERLY!: In which our host meets the Ghosts, a rock band replaying songs of the 50's.; ANIMAL NEWS NETWORK: Dr. Eric Weisman presents guests like Ric O'Barry, former trainer of Flipper.; JOHN'S CABARET: John Wallowitch plays piano and takes requests by phone, as he has for 14 years. (pg. 1); BIKER BILLY COOKS WITH FIRE: This is definitely not the Galloping Gourmet. Biker Billy's signoff: "Eat hot food and ride safe." (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CENSORSHIP (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (64%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



719 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: October 23-28

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Farewell, and Hello Again, to Sub-8% Interest Rates
Mind you, these arbitrary barriers mean nothing. Yet it's hard to resist seeing this as a sort of official end to the Great '93-94 Interest-Rate Sale. On Monday, in a continuing reaction to inflation that never actually appears, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond closed above 8 percent for the first time since April 1992, hitting 8.06 on Wednesday. One reason cited this time was apprehension about data due on Friday. Yet when the reports came, they showed that while the economy had grown surprisingly fast over the summer quarter -- a 3.4 percent pace -- inflation was still not a danger. This so cheered the markets that the Dow industrials soared 55 points, and Treasury yields dipped back below that magic number, to 7.95. And Democrats, fearing a trouncing at the polls, were quick to remind voters that all this good stuff was happening on their watch. 

Well, He Isn't Facing Voters
Mayor Giuliani must have decided to anger as many people as he could last week. First he infuriated the party faithful by endorsing that ultimate Democrat, Mario Cuomo. But many who applauded that decision swallowed their cheers the very next day when he disclosed his recipe for balancing the city budget -- with deep cuts in areas dear to liberal hearts. Like $190 million out of an education budget already slashed by $317 million. How? Just get rid of 500 assistant principals, and raise the price of school lunches. Social services would get a $102 million hit, the subways $113 million. Even money for soup kitchens would be phased out. Necessary? Perhaps. Draconian? Clearly. But state money will have to keep flowing, so the Mayor has to hope he bet on the right horse.
 
Mortgage Bias: A Mixed Report
It's well documented that that basic American dream -- home ownership -- remains just a dream to many blacks. Many forces have aligned to battle this inequity, from community groups pressuring local lenders to the Justice Department suing them. In statistics out last week on mortgage lending, you could see the glass as half full or half empty. On the plus side, mortgages to blacks in the New York area in 1993 soared 45 percent, vs. 20 percent for whites. One factor, of course, was surely that mortgage rates were low last year (how far away 6 percent seems now). But a less pleasant fact remains: more than 20 percent of blacks were still turned down, but just 12 percent of whites.
 
A Guru Too Far?
Elaine Garzarelli is not your typical market guru. She wears flashy clothes, seems to revel in publicity, even appeared in pantyhose ads. Most important, in early October 1987, with most other investors still happily trooping aboard the Titanic, she saw the crash coming -- and said so. That bit of clairvoyance -- or (dare one say it?) luck -- made her a superstar, and as Lehman's resident guru she had a huge following. And, yes, a salary to match -- reportedly $1 million to $2 million. But last week Ms. Garzarelli "resigned" (read: "dismissed") -- supposedly as part of a Lehman cost-cutting. Did she forecast this one?
 
Lights! Camera! Dial Tone!
Now look who's teaming up to bombard you with movies on demand. No, it's not the usual suspects: studios, networks, even cable companies. It's three phone companies and, yes, a talent agency. Next thing you know, the plumber, on fixing your pipes, will offer -- as a package deal -- to send "Forrest Gump" right to your kitchen sink. This week Bell Atlantic, Nynex and Pacific Telesis are expected to join with Michael Ovitz and his mighty Creative Artists Agency in a venture to offer programming to phone customers. And privacy buffs, be warned: part of the deal is something called "interactive marketing" -- or, more bluntly, they know what you're buying, and they won't forget it.
 
COMPANIES
 
Nice Investors Finish Last
The stock market is full of odd coincidences, the kind that give mom-and-pop investors the sneaking suspicion that they're not in the in crowd. Case in point: after the market closed on Monday, Outboard Marine said its earnings would be well below estimates. Now the odd part: investors had already been selling the stock all day -- the opening was delayed more than an hour by a flood of sell orders. Volume soared to more than 300,000 shares from a more typical 44,000 the previous Friday, and the price slipped more than $2, to $20.75. And like the 11-year-old boy standing innocently by the empty cookie jar, nobody in sight had the slightest idea what happened. It's the old moral: once you hear something, it's probably very old news.
 
Prudential, $700 Million Wiser
Brokers love to tell investors that they've got a great investment for them -- but is it risky? Don't be silly. Prudential Securities surely wishes it had been a bit more blunt about the risks of some limited partnerships it sold in the 1980's -- a wish that grows stonger by the day. The firm already reached a $371 million civil settlement in the case, and last week it came totally clean -- admitting that those involved knowingly made false claims -- and agreed to pay an added $330 million to settle criminal charges. (That $700 million puts it ahead of Drexel, which paid $650 million in its settlement.) The company's now on a three-year probation, so you can count on brokers falling all over themselves talking about risks.
 
Between Calculating Adults
When it comes to risk, though, are all investors created equal -- or equally vulnerable? Should giant corporations be a little more savvy than the little guy? Last week Procter & Gamble in effect said no: by suing Bankers Trust because it lost a bundle on derivatives, P.& G. was insisting that it, too, should not suffer because it got bad advice. Though Bankers Trust denies it, P.& G. insists that the bank assured it that its losses could be limited if interest rates turned volatile -- though when rates did turn it lost over $100 million. But the point is, at what point does an investor become a grown-up, with a responsibility to calculate the risk itself?
 
Cash for Ziff-Davis
You might think that if a publishing giant was for sale, it would only make sense for a publishing company to buy it. But don't tell that to Forstmann Little, which last week -- with no publishing experience -- agreed to pay $1.4 billion for Ziff-Davis Publishing. In cash. Forstmann, a surprise bidder, has been buying all sorts of things since its birth in 1978 -- like Gulfstream, which makes private jets. And now Ziff-Davis, which with titles like PC Magazine and PC Week is the nation's most successful computer publisher. Its chairman, William B. Ziff Jr., retired last year, and his sons had different plans for their lives. Which they can now well afford.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The Other Iraq
The world's economic weapons have pretty poor aim. Going on the odd assumption that there is a single nation called Iraq, the United Nations has imposed a crippling embargo on that outlaw nation. But there are clearly two Iraqs -- Saddam Hussein and his pals inhabiting one, everyone else the other. The first are the outlaws, but it's a safe bet that Mr. Hussein's dinner plate is full every single night. It's that second nation that's feeling the heat. The rumblings on Kuwait's border have caused the world to shine a spotlight on that other Iraq, and it's not a pretty sight -- people living on $2 a month, selling household goods just to survive. And many people not surviving at all.
 
Cuba, Den of Capitalism
The United States keeps envisioning that glorious day when the Cuban masses, spurred to action by endless American embargoes, rise up against their cruel Communist dictator and declare the dawn of capitalism. Well, the inevitable change just might not arrive in such a living-color, comic-book parcel. In fact, don't look now, but Cuban Communism is already crumbling fast. A month ago, the Castro Government put farm products at the mercy of those capitalist demons supply and demand. And last week it went a step further, allowing the free sale of a variety of consumer products and industrial goods. Fidel Who?
 
A Mideast Carrot, but No Sticks
Much of the world's tension really comes down to economics. If the cupboard is bare, you don't want to blame yourself, so you shoot someone. Recognizing this, President Clinton offered a carrot last week in the Mideast -- but warned that the sticks must be laid aside. Right after witnessing Israel's peace with Jordan, he vowed to promote economic development across the region and to take a leading role in setting up a Middle East Development Bank to finance local projects. Among other things, he said the Overseas Development Investment Corporation would provide $75 million to promote private investment, mainly in Jordan. But in the next breath he warned that all could be jeopardized by violence. "It is the age-old struggle between fear and hope," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A street market in Baghdad. (Reuters)
 
Graphs showing weekly yields of 30-year treasury bonds from 1992 to 1994 and race breakdown of mortgage applicants.
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (59%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (59%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (59%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (63%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



720 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: TREMONT;
Industry Fills Tremont Park But Avoids Going Farther

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
When Clay Park Labs, a generic drug manufacturer based in the Bronx, announced plans to build a new plant here two weeks ago, the $10.8 million project represented a double milestone for the Tremont neighborhood.
The plant, to be built on a stretch of vacant land between Bathgate and Third Avenues just south of the Cross Bronx Expressway, nudged up occupancy to 100 percent at the Bathgate Industrial Park, a 12-block development formed by the city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 1982 to help resurrect this burned-out section of the South Bronx. With no land left inside the park, however, attention is shifting to the perhaps harder task of revitalizing the surrounding neighborhood. 
 The drug company, which now makes more than 200 lotions and creams at its three buildings inside the industrial park, will break ground in the spring on a two-story, 140,000-square-foot plant. The complex will accommodate the company's growing exports and possible diversification into the pill-manufacturing business, said Bernard Ettinger, the president of Clay Park Labs. The expansion is expected to create 200 jobs.
The project will also coincide with the construction of a smaller plant by Kleener King, a dry-cleaning company based in the Bronx, said Philip Galya, who manages the Bathgate Industrial Park for the Port Authority.
"With these projects, for the first time, we won't have any vacant lots," said Mr. Galya, who likes to show visitors an aerial photo of the area before the Port Authority and the city's Economic Development Corporation turned it into an industrial park 12 years ago -- 21 acres of rubble from devastated walk-ups, with an occasional building still standing.
Nowadays, roughly 1,300 people are employed by the industrial park's 10 tenants. About 70 percent are residents of the Bronx or upper Manhattan, Mr. Galya said. In the plants, Spanish is frequently heard among clusters of workers, and walls are plastered with directions written in that language. Although the Bathgate Industrial Park has had tenants that have failed -- a printing shop, a mail-order company and a greenhouse -- it is now home to a variety of businesses, including a private infant care provider and an academic and vocational training center administered by Bronx Community College.
But while the industrial park is thriving, the neighborhood's urban atmosphere is the main obstacle to its own redevelopment, said Michael Butler, director of the Bathgate Local Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization that receives city funds to develop the area surrounding the industrial park.
Mr. Butler said there had been little industrial growth outside the park, and even keeping the small manufacturers and distributors on Webster Avenue had been difficult. Although businesses opening in this area would qualify for several tax breaks -- as they do in the park -- many remain wary, fearing security, parking and traffic problems, Mr. Butler said. In addition, even though the neighborhood has much city-owned vacant land, it has few large tracts.
Nevertheless, the industrial park's effect on the neighborhood is visible. Two nearby public schools are almost free of graffiti. And here, as elsewhere in the South Bronx, new homes dot the streets, and renovated apartment buildings on Fulton Street house about 4,000 people. NORIMITSU ONISHI

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clay Park Labs, which employs about 500 workers in the Bathgate Industrial Park in the Bronx is planning to build a new plant. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)
 
Table: "Bathgate Industrial Park" lists the 10 buildings that makeup the Bathgate Industrial Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CLAY PARK LABS; BATHGATE INDUSTRIAL PARK (NYC) CLAY-PARK LABORATORIES INC (90%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); PORT AUTHORITY (85%); BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLAY PARK LABS; BATHGATE INDUSTRIAL PARK (NYC) PORT AUTHORITY (85%); BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (73%); TEST LABORATORIES (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RELOCATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (51%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU PHILIP GALYA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



721 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
Talking Politics in a Municipal Bad Mood

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
EVEN after 17 years in the city, Timothy Tate feels "politically transient"; he probably won't vote in this election. But Carol Roberto can't wait to vote for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, "twice if you can figure out how I can do it." Eleanor Papa will be voting for George E. Pataki, because "a new broom sweeps pretty good at first, until it loses its fibers." Johnny Colon thinks "yelling in the streets" may be at least as effective as voting. And Daphne Maloney senses a confusion that she hopes won't translate into people sitting this one out, and then not even in her restaurant.
This pre-election poll may be as shallow as it is narrow -- only middle-aged or older registered Copers who have appeared at least once in this column were surveyed about the cityside impact of the gubernatorial election -- but it seems to echo the deep concern and the broad loss of optimism in current urban life. Nevertheless, most Copers say they will citizen on. What's the choice? Move? 
 Watching the city's economy from her cash register at Daphne's Hibiscus, a Jamaican restaurant on East 14th Street, Daphne Maloney can tell that "people are going out to dinner less, and there's more sharing of entrees."
"My main concern is crime, and then youth," she said. "Not enough is being done for them. What could the reason be for the little ones committing murder? No jobs, no hope. And people really do want to work. I had a young man, early 30's, come in two Mondays in a row to do some work, and I said I'd call him if I needed him again. He showed up a third Monday, just in case, made a long trip for a few hours work. I gave him something to do. All this would get worse with Pataki. A Republican Mayor and Governor would be a disaster."
*
 "I'm a very loyal Republican," said Eleanor Papa, a retired Bensonhurst schoolteacher. "The only time I cross party lines is for my State Senator, Marty Solomon, a Democrat. He was very helpful when I got knocked down by a bike on the sidewalk.
"People aren't really talking about the election a lot. But then I spend a lot of time with the elderly, and they're not so concerned about issues as about themselves. Oh, they'll vote; see them come out with their little canes while the young people sit home and watch TV.
"I believe in the death penalty, workfare, not welfare, and cutting entitlements. Take some things from old people and give it to youngsters, they're the future."
Carol Roberto, a retired interior designer who lives near Union Square, thinks Mr. Pataki isn't "concerned about people."
"Lower taxes never work, they just cut into education and services for the poor," she explained. "My heart belongs to Mario. A great mind, fair and honest. He's too smart for people, they are envious. It was courageous for Giuliani to endorse him. I might just vote for Giuliani next time."
People are getting fewer haircuts these days, said Timothy Tate, who cuts hair at Pentomo, on the Upper East Side. "You never talk about religion or politics, you can lose a client over a disagreement," he said. "But I do listen. People are moving right-wing to justify their concerns about themselves, about making money for a second child, a first house out of the city.
"I'm not sure how political poorer people are, they're so busy just surviving. . . . Meanwhile, we're not getting the information we need. What about these Russian gangsters in New York? And where do all the guns in the ghetto come from? You give us the black persona of a street kid with a turned-around cap ready to steal, not the middle-class black person trying to embrace culture, live a life beyond race.
"I voted for Dinkins the first time, but would have voted for Giuliani the second time. I don't feel part of my times here as a black man without a college degree who is also not funky enough for SoHo. Giuliani's not good for me, but he's good for the city. He has a fixed purpose, he'll screw whole groups, get others off their butts to keep the city afloat." Mr. Tate has been spending more and more time lately at his computer, on-line. "I think of myself as non-aligned right now," he said.
Johnny Colon runs a music school and alternative high school in East Harlem. "You don't really hear a buzz up here," he said, "but that may be because people are apathetic. They've lost faith in the system, and rightly so.
"But getting up in politicians' faces, protesting, organizing on a grassroots level, is as important as voting. We have to get back out in the streets and make noise. Pass that old spark on to the kids.
"Cuomo's tired, he's fought the fight, but he wants to go out on top, with a bang for the city and the state. He wants people to feel about him the way they did when they talked about him for president."
Mr. Colon knows about fight and fatigue. A month ago, his longtime partner and wife, Stephanie Munoz, died. "The school and other nonprofits, we've got to get through the next couple of years, until things turn around again," he said. "Right now it's all about survival."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESTAURANTS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); INTERIOR DECORATING (60%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



722 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: In California, the Numbers Add Up to Anxiety

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN 

 BODY:
"ENOUGH is enough," said William King, executive vice president of Americans Against Illegal Immigration, based in Southern California. Mr. King is a moving force in putting an anti-illegal immigrant proposition on next week's statewide ballot. "We're going broke in this state. It's just the enormity of the situation." The schools, he complained, are now teaching in 96 different languages. "It's insanity, it doesn't make sense and the average guy in this country is not going to buy into it anymore."
Proposition 187, called "Save Our State," would deny social services like schooling and non-emergency medical care to illegal immigrants. The visible targets of the measure are the waves of undocumented workers, but it underscores a growing discomfort with the number of newcomers. 
 Nowhere is this discomfort more keenly felt than in Los Angeles. The city has become a giant jigsaw puzzle that no one knows how to put together anymore. Once a laid-back expanse of pastel neighborhoods, its spirit exemplified by skate-boarders and Christmas at the beach, Los Angeles is splitting into separate and often clashing pieces. Of the estimated five million immigrants who moved to California since 1970, two-thirds moved to the vast sprawl of the Los Angeles basin.
In less than a generation, they remade what had been a bastion of predominantly white Protestant migrants from the Midwest. Today one out of every four people in Los Angeles County and the four counties that surround it is foreign-born. One-fifth of America's immigrants call the area home.
This human influx left a legacy of social dislocations. In Pico Union, Mexican-Americans compete for low-wage jobs with thousands of largely unskilled refugees displaced by war in Central America. In Monterey Park, affluent Taiwanese and Hong Kong Chinese began a building boom, rankling defenders of the status quo, whose anxieties emerged in rancorous debates over foreign-language signs. In South Central Los Angeles, the dense presence of Korean-owned liquor stores in a predominantly black and Hispanic community set off an acrimonious dispute about economic exploitation.
What changed these isolated conflicts into a general backlash against immigration was four years of recession. After decades of boom, the California economy has gone bust. While legal experts doubt the constitutionality of Proposition 187, which cost millions to put on the ballot and will cost at least as much to defend in court, it reflects a need to vent a growing anger, no matter how expensive or futile the exercise. For some, the landscape has become less and less familiar.
For more than 200 years, a time when Irish, Germans, Eastern Europeans and Italians arrived by the millions, there have been sporadic instances of nativist backlash, particularly at times of economic distress. But with assimilation, these earlier immigrants became part of a different group: white America. The latest migration is mostly Hispanic and Asian, and it has set in motion a jittery dynamic of cultural misunderstanding and racial tension.
Mexicans represent the largest influx of immigrants over the last two decades. Drawn by the lure of jobs in manufacturing, construction and the defense industry, their numbers have grown to 2.5 million today from just 320,000 in Los Angeles County in 1960. Mexican-Americans make up nearly 30 percent of the county's population of 8.9 million. Mexicans -- 350,000 of them, by the estimates of the Immigration and Naturalization service -- are also the largest group of illegal immigrants.
 
Remaking the Mix
 Asians and Central Americans, driven by war or economic opportunity, started arriving in large numbers in the 1970's. Today immigrants from Mexico and El Salvador make up more than 56 percent of those who came to the region between 1980 and 1990. Japanese, Koreans, Chinese and Southeast Asians account for another 17 percent.
Non-Hispanic whites, the descendants of the Irish and Germans and Eastern Europeans, were 40 percent of the county's population in 1990. Together, Hispanics and Asians totaled 48 percent. Slightly more than 10 percent were black. And once-homogeneous neighborhoods had been transformed by new arrivals.
Regardless of how the ballot measure fares, both sides of the issue agree that Proposition 187 is probably the first of many proposals that will be provoked by the immigration issue.
A century ago, it took two decades of debate over the influx of Eastern Europeans, Italians and Irish before Congress enacted laws curtailing immigration. After World War II, the number of immigrants began to increase steadily to the current levels.
The latest influx differs markedly from the first, which long ago transcended the strident xenophobia and bigotry it provoked and is remembered in nostalgic terms as a movement of great hope and vigor.
Kevin McCarthy, coordinator of California research for the Rand Corporation, said that for all the current angst over immigration, history suggests that the backlash will eventually recede as immigrants adapt and as society as a whole changes through exposure to the newcomers.
"I am optimistic about these things," Mr. McCarthy said. "Time is the only issue. All the evidence I see suggests that the kids and grandkids of these immigrants will become indistinguishable from the rest of society."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Catholic church in Los Angeles's Koreatown serves Central Americans. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Children at a Los Angeles school in Chinatown. (Alex Webb/Magnum)
 
Table: "Favored Destinations" lists the urban areas that saw the most immigrants arrive between 1980 and 1990.
 
 
Map: "People Patterns: How Los Angelas Has Changed" shows a race and ethnicity breakdown of Los Angelas and its suburbs.
 
Graphs: "Decades of Diversifying" shows racial breakdown for Los Angelas county. "Mexican Immigrants: Two Waves, Two Portraits" shows Mexican immigration statistics for Los Angelas.
 
(Data provided by Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, Sociology Dept., Queens College from the Census Bureau; Richard Lovelady; Sacramento Census Data Center)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); TRENDS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BALLOTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RECESSION (68%); SKATEBOARDING (66%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%); 

PERSON: DUNN, ASHLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



723 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Whose Deficit, and How Big?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
POLITICS has its own 17-year locust, called the deficit. For long years it lies underground, chewing at the roots of prosperity, only to surface briefly around elections, for a brief chatter before diving back out of public consciousness. Well, it's almost November. What a clamor.
In one ear of the electorate, President Clinton boasted last week that his prudent governing defanged the deficit for the 1994 fiscal year that ended in September, slicing it by $102 billion -- that's one-third -- from original estimates. In the other, Republicans touted a "Contract With America" stating that they would wipe out the deficit altogether if voters would just put them in power, though they were notably silent on how. 
 Then there is Mr. Clinton's budget director, Alice Rivlin, who was sort of in between. In a cerebral memo leaked last week to the press, she effectively said that whatever Mr. Clinton's successes, the budget is going to Hades in a handbasket unless someone reins in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, and maybe levies a tax or two, too.
There's the white noise of politics in all this, and there's truth as well. Disentangling one from the other, however, is tricky. Mr. Clinton justifiably calls himself the first President in two decades whose policies have cut the deficit for two years straight. (George Bush signed into law a plan that aimed to cut it five straight years -- and might have, had the economy not headed south and the savings-and-loan bailout sucked the Treasury dry.)
 
'Huge Cuts' in Spending
 In Cleveland, Mr. Clinton said the lower deficit was due to "huge cuts in Federal spending" and changes in purchasing rules. But the President based the $102 billion figure on a January 1993 White House projection of what the deficit would be for fiscal 1994: $305 billion. That was $19 billion higher than the estimate made at the same time by the generally straight-arrow Congressional Budget Office.
Granted, in the multitrillion-dollar Fantasyland of Federal budgetry, a $19 billion difference is coffee money. Moreover, the $305 billion estimate was leagues closer to the consensus of experts at the time than similar projections by Mr. Clinton's Republican predecessors.
Still, $19 billion is $19 billion. The Congressional Budget Office would say Mr. Clinton's 1994 deficit was $83 billion less than originally projected, and not $102 billion less. How much of that $83 billion is directly, inarguably due to Mr. Clinton's labors? The C.B.O. would give the President credit for $33 billion, through lower spending and higher taxes in his 1994 budget.
Since Mr. Clinton took office, a lot occurred to make the deficit shrink. The economy outperformed estimates, increasing tax revenues and cutting interest on the Federal debt. Health care and Social Security spending has been below estimates. The savings-and-loan bailout and bank rescues cost $37 billion less than expected, partly due to a rosier economy.
The Administration's policies surely have helped keep the economy humming, yet economists agree that the economy began to hum again -- though not very loud -- nine months before Mr. Clinton took office.
The White House claims all the credit, just as it would shoulder the blame if the economy turned sour. Whatever the economic vagaries, the Administration's five-year budget package should, by C.B.O. reckoning, make the total Federal debt $433 billion smaller by the 1998 fiscal year than it would have been.
Some conservative economists, like Michael Boskin of Stanford University, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, argue that $240 billion or so of that deficit reduction comes from tax increases that hinder economic growth.
Others, like Charles Schultze of the Brookings Institution, who was President Carter's chief economic adviser, say the Clinton package is "a major accomplishment." Mr. Schultze says the best measure of the deficit -- its size in relation to the nation's total economic output -- has fallen sharply under Mr. Clinton.
Yet it is easy to forget that Mr. Clinton's predecessor agreed to an even larger deficit reduction, in 1990, under pressure from Congress. By the C.B.O.'s estimate at the time, that package was to cut the growth of the debt by $482 billion from fiscal 1991 to 1995, through tax increases, spending cuts and savings.
Taxes did go up, and domestic spending was effectively capped. But the deficit rose anyway -- albeit less than it would have -- because of the stubborn recession.
Lost amid the credit-taking and finger-pointing is the fact that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush really took the easy whacks at the debt, hacking at the one-third of spending under their direct control. The remaining two-thirds consists of interest on the Federal debt and benefit programs, like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, whose annual amounts are set by fixed formulas and which have wide support.
Mr. Clinton argued in Cleveland -- correctly, virtually all economists say -- that medical spending is the root of the deficit. He took a direct swipe at Medicaid and an indirect one at Medicare this summer by proposing health care reform. But some economists, like Chris Probyn, the chief forecaster at DRI/McGraw Hill, think Mr. Clinton's health plan would have caused the overall deficit to rise.
 
A Sinkhole Ahead?
 Mr. Clinton has ruled out any cuts in Medicare except with broader health care reform. And he has ruled out any action on Social Security, which will become the sort of economic sinkhole early in the next century that Medicare is becoming now.
Ms. Rivlin's memo lays out the peril: by C.B.O. estimates, the deficit will be 2.3 percent of the gross domestic product in fiscal 1995, which began Oct. 1. It will rise to 3.6 percent, or $397 billion, by 2004. By 2020, she estimates, the deficit will run close to $1.5 trillion a year.
Mr. Probyn calls the President's deficit-cutting efforts "a sharp left jab, maybe even a left hook." But without a strategy to control benefit programs, he said, "they're just buying time."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Deficit: Track Record" shows Federal deficit each fiscal year from 1980 to 1999. (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MEDICAID (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); MEDICARE (67%); BAILOUTS (64%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



724 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Filling the Void and the Bases in Panama

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
AMERICAN opponents of the 1979 treaty giving Panama control of the Panama Canal have long raised fears that this banana republic of 2.5 million people cannot possibly manage the waterway and its vast military bases and properties.
Driving down Gaillard Highway, the Canal Zone's main thoroughfare, it is easy to understand their trepidation. To the left of the roadway, on the property that has already reverted to Panama, are weeds seven feet high. To the right, on land still overseen by the United States, are beautifully manicured lawns and gardens. 
 And yet dreams are gathering for a Panamanian "city of knowledge" to be built on the bases that the Americans are scheduled to turn over by 1999.
The new government is scrambling to come up with a plan that will exploit the canal and the 500-square-mile corridor surrounding it. In recent weeks, the newly elected President, Ernesto Perez Balladares, and his cabinet, mainly Foreign Minister Gabriel Lewis, have been promoting a grandiose scheme to convert the bases into universities and training centers that would attract top students from throughout Latin America.
The idea, which United States officials here have dismissed as dubious, is to create a sort of American university on the Canal, using the facilities of the military bases. For example, military housing would be turned into student dormitories, and the officers' club into the faculty lounge.
The institutions would be similar to the American University in Cairo and Beirut and would be accredited by college and university boards in the United States. American academicians said that to their knowledge no such accredited institution exists in Latin America.
"We hope to exchange United States soldiers for an army of international students and professors," Mr. Lewis said. "Where troops once trained for battle, we hope to educate the very best scholars and professionals from Latin America. I can't think of a better use for these operations."
Converting military bases into premier institutions of higher learning is no simple task.
While American and Panamanian officials agree that steps have been taken to insure that the the canal will be run smoothly after Panama takes it over, many properties turned over since 1979 have been grossly mismanaged. Some of these assets, like the Canal Zone's railroad, have been shut down altogether.
 
$50 Million for Starters
 The plan for the university needs about $50 million to get off the ground. Then, tens of millions of dollars a year will be needed just to maintain the grounds and buildings. Panama, which has an unemployment rate of 13 percent and half of its population living in poverty, has no money for the project. The United States, which is not required under the treaty to help maintain any canal properties after they revert to Panama, has shown little interest in the idea.
Furthermore, Panama has no guarantee that if it builds the university, Latin Americans will come. Universities around the world are facing hard times and aggressively competing for students. In addition, most upper-class Latins are happy sending their children to schools in the United States and Europe and are not expected to change their ways.
Still, the Panamanians say they are committed to their "city of knowledge" and are drawing up plans to convert the first military base, Fort Amador, within three years.
Mr. Lewis said Fort Amador would house three schools: a university, an institute of technology and an institute of oriental studies, that can accommodate about 25,000 students. Tuition would be set low and admission standards high, Mr. Lewis said.
Financing to convert Fort Amador, which is scheduled to revert to Panama next year, will come from businesses in Panama and abroad, Mr. Lewis said. He mentioned that Japanese and Israeli companies that do business in Panama had expressed interest in participating in the project. Since announcing the plan this month, Panama has received $2 million in commitments and expects to raise $15 million by the end of next year.
Fernando Aramburu, general manager of Petroterminal of Panama S.A., which has donated several hundred thousand dollars to the project, said he saw no other use for the bases. "The government has the assets and has to do something with them or else they will just sit there and start to rust," Mr. Aramburu said. "Education is the key."
Much is riding on the university project. It would offset some of the $400 million in jobs and economic activity that is expected to be lost when the last Americans leave.
The canal has another kind of value to Panamanians, too. "There are a lot of people who would like to see us fall flat on our face in trying to manage one thing that is most associated with our country," Mr. Lewis said. "We don't intend to let that happen."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA; UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (50%); 

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CANALS & WATERWAYS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); STUDENT HOUSING (72%); ACCREDITATION (72%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN GABRIEL LEWIS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



725 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: A Venture on the Brink: Do Education and Profits Mix?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
Three years after promising to combine entrepreneurial razzle-dazzle with cutting-edge education, the Edison Project of for-profit schools envisioned by the media entrepreneur Christopher Whittle has come to this: either the project raises $25 million to $50 million within two months or it dies a very noisy, public death.
And besides the stripped-down plans that bear little resemblance to Mr. Whittle's original vision of 1,000 private schools, built from scratch, there is one other major change as the company searches for financing. With the collapse or forced sale of Mr. Whittle's other ventures and the ensuing harsh publicity, it has become clear that to attract financing, Edison must almost surely persuade potential investors that the man who gave Edison life will have little or no ability to shape its future. 
 Asked what would happen if it became clear that Mr. Whittle's problems were imperiling the project, a person at Edison familiar with Mr. Whittle's thinking invoked the biblical story in which Solomon proposed to settle a dispute by two women fighting over a baby by cutting the child in half. He said that if it became clear that Mr. Whittle's presence was a drag on the company, Mr. Whittle would step down. But he added that he believed that Mr. Whittle remained an asset to Edison because of his fund-raising ability and overall success in other educational ventures.
At stake, to some degree, is not just a project that has already tapped some of the nation's best minds in education and spent $40 million to develop a prototype for what is billed as technologically advanced, cost-effective education. But also at issue is the future of the budding, if hugely controversial, movement to bring corporate America into the nation's classrooms.
With the collapse or sale of Mr. Whittle's other companies in recent months, critics are jumping on the Edison Project as never before, depicting it as an oversold fantasy that would use schoolchildren as bait for investors. Mr. Whittle first gained attention by returning Esquire magazine to profitability in the 1980's and may be best known for Channel One, which brings newscasts and advertising into about 12,000 schools around the country.
"I don't think it's possible, I don't think it's going to happen, I think it's la-la land," Sandra Feldman, the New York City president of the American Federation of Teachers, told participants in a conference titled "The Galloping Privatization of Public Schools" held in New York last week.
"I think it's going to self-destruct," Ms. Feldman said, as the Edison Project's director of curriculum, John Chubb, looked on uncomfortably.
But teacher unions have always been among the harshest critics of for-profit educational programs. And even if they distrust the corporate pedigree, most educators have enormous respect for the team Mr. Whittle assembled and the Edison Project's effort to rethink almost everything about education -- from the configuration of classes to the length of the school year to the role of technology.
"Everything that Edison has said they would do with us and for us they have honored," said Dr. Blanche E. Fraser, superintendent of the Mount Clemens Community School District in Mount Clemens, Mich., the first district to sign a contract with Edison. "We're looking forward to having a model of the best educational and organizational practice in our school district so we can learn from it and benefit from it."
What remains entirely unclear is whether Edison can run first-rate schools and also turn a profit. And unless it can find investors to keep it alive, that question will remain unanswered.
Edison is not the only experiment in for-profit education. The other high-profile company is Education Alternatives Inc., recently hired to run the Hartford school district. But many other companies are scrambling for part of the $260 billion business that is American public education.
Still, ever since May 1992, when Mr. Whittle lured Benno C. Schmidt Jr. from the presidency of Yale University to head the Edison Project, Edison has come to symbolize both the promise and perils of for-profit education.
Originally the plan was for 1,000 private schools. That goal changed to managing 200 public schools with 15 open by next year. Now the strategy is to open perhaps half the number next year, operating with the same per-pupil spending as other schools in the same district but using cuts in administrative costs and other operating expenses to operate at a profit.
Even many supporters of for-profit companies in public education doubt the company's ability to deliver its program and turn a profit. And some critics say the heart of Edison, from its grandiose plans to its choice of Mr. Schmidt, an inspired fund-raiser with no background in elementary and secondary education, has always been more about corporate empire building than educating children.
"In education, anyone can make any claim they want," said Henry Levin, a Stanford University economist, who founded that university's Accelerated Schools program, which works with troubled students in 700 schools in 37 states. "But the problem is education isn't a profitable area. I just laughed when they made all their claims in the beginning, but the question was would the investment community buy it? Well, they didn't buy it."
Whatever doubts Edison faced at the start have been compounded as Mr. Whittle has gone from Wunderkind to fallen star. An article in the current New Yorker raises questions about his accounting practices and documents a pattern of lavish spending that is difficult to square with a sober business dedicated to bringing efficiency and cost controls to schools.
Mr. Whittle did not return telephone calls to his offices in New York and Knoxville, Tenn.
But Edison officials at every turn now seek to play down his role in the business and are said to be seeking his ouster from the company. When Mr. Chubb addressed the New York conference, the only name mentioned was that of Mr. Schmidt. And company officials are quick to point out that Mr. Whittle, who holds what is described as a "minority" ownership position in the company and holds the title of chairman, has almost no day-to-day involvement in its management.
"Chris has played very little role in the project for the last year," Mr. Schmidt said in an interview at Edison's offices on Fifth Avenue. "In the districts where we have agreements in principal and where we're working on contracts, people understand very well that we're independent. They have a clear sense of who they're dealing with."
When Mr. Schmidt was asked to respond to published reports that he had asked Edison's board to remove Mr. Whittle, he declined to comment. Asked whether, he expected Mr. Whittle to remain with the company over the next two months as Edison seeks additional financing, Mr. Schmidt also declined to comment.
And when asked if Mr. Whittle's problems were affecting Edison's credibility and ability to raise money, he said: "It obviously has not helped. There tends to be some association, particularly in the minds of people who don't have much first-hand knowledge about what the Edison Project is."
Similarly, financial experts say that Edison finds itself in the position of selling a speculative, unproven concept at a time a huge cloud is hanging over the man most-often associated with the project.
"Rightly or wrongly, and I really want to emphasize rightly or wrongly, Chris Whittle has become a liability to the credibility of what they are doing," said Michael Moe, who follows Education Alternatives and trends in for-profit education for Lehman Brothers in New York. "It was Whittle's vision, but it's other people who are carrying it off, and Chris Whittle's involvement will be minimal if that."
Mr. Schmidt, whose salary has been reported to be $800,000, said he was confident that he would find the financing Edison needed but he would not give specifics. The company is seeking $25 million to $50 million, to be used over several years, to buy computers, wire classrooms, hire teachers and get its first schools in operation. The company says it will be several years before it expects to begin earning a profit.
Mr. Schmidt and others say the company has three options: find new investors, get more money from current investors or get some combination of the two. People familiar with Edison say it is likely that the company's hopes for future financing depend on at least some future contributions from Mr. Whittle's two partners in Edison, the Dutch electronics giant Philips Electronics N.V. and the British publishing firm Associated Newspaper Holdings P.L.C.
In a statement this week, Philips said it had "fully provided for the negative impact" arising from the disposal of Mr. Whittle's Whittle Communications but said it "fully supports the Edison Project." A company official declined to comment on whether the $33 billion company, for whom the investments with Mr. Whittle have been a tiny sidelight, plans further investments.
A spokesman for Associated, a billion-dollar enterprise whose largest properties are three major daily newspapers in England, said: "We are still supportive of the scheme and will continue to meet our current funding until the end of the year. Various options are being considered in connection with future funding."
Still, for all Mr. Whittle's troubles, Edison officials do not try to divorce themselves from his original vision.
"Chris Whittle had a great idea," Mr. Schmidt said. "His vision is a very powerful, creative one, and there's nothing in our work or the reception to our work that would suggest anything other than that the vision is more and more ripe for realization."
And amid the legion of doubters, skeptical that it is possible to improve schools, add fancy new technology including a computer in every child's home, spend what schools currently spend and turn a profit that will please Wall Street, there are many educators convinced that Edison's idea deserves a chance to prove itself.
"I think it would be a real shame for the children of America and the future of public education if the Edison Project failed and never gets to try its product," said John M. McLaughlin, an education professor at St. Cloud State University in Minnesota and editor of the newsletter, "The Education Investor." "It has brought together good minds and invested tremendous resources and focused the national attention on what the private sector may be able to do for public education."
In fact, the public ferment for innovation in education is so great -- and Edison's current plan and capital needs so stripped down -- that Mr. Moe and some others on Wall Street think there is a good chance Edison will live to at least try out its ideas. Whether Mr. Whittle is around to participate in seeing through the fruits of his idea is less certain.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benno C. Schmidt Jr., center, conferring with other members of the management team for the Edison Project of for-profit schools. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATIZATION; EDISON PROJECT ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); TEACHER UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; WHITTLE, CHRISTOPHER CHRISTOPHER WHITTLE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



726 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: Health Care, Cuba's Pride, Falls on Hard Times

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Cuba, Oct. 29

 BODY:
At the big, modern hospital on one end of this provincial city, the medical staff commands the sort of technology that most poor countries can only dream about. There are CAT scans for the radiologists, ultrasound machines for the obstetricians, stacks of high-tech monitors in the suites for intensive care.
In recent months, though, the doctors here have had to learn techniques they never heard about in medical school. Short on drugs, they have turned to acupuncture to anesthetize some patients. Lacking sutures, they have begun sewing up some wounds with hemp. 
 "We are a model hospital and we are having very grave problems," said one young doctor who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But from here, it goes downhill."
Five years into the crushing economic crisis set off by the collapse of Cuba's preferential trading partnerships in the former East bloc, the comprehensive health care system that has been one of Communism's most prized achievements here is beginning to seriously erode.
Across the country, even the most basic medicines are often scarce. Materials for some diagnostic tests have all but disappeared. At many hospitals, patients are told to bring their own sheets, and their visitors are sometimes asked to help mop floors.
With ambulances crippled by lack of fuel and spare parts, sick Cubans must often flag down passing cars or trucks in emergencies. With their air-conditioning cut back, surgeons say they are sometimes unable to operate on hot days.
Some foreign public health experts say the impact of the economic turmoil might already be catastrophic were it not for the island's large network of hospitals and clinics and its relative wealth of physicians, nearly half of whom are deployed in a national community-medicine program that emphasizes preventive care.
And for a country now thought to have a per-capita income comparable to that of its poorest neighbors, the broad measures of its health may be even more impressive than in years past: infant mortality, estimated to have fallen to 9.4 deaths for every 1,000 live births last year, was only a shade higher than that in the United States; life expectancy at birth, 75.5 years in 1992, nearly equaled that of Luxembourg.
Yet foreign experts have begun to challenge Government assertions that the well-being of Cubans is not at risk. Citing official statistics, they note that the island's pathology has begun to change, that more people are sick and sometimes dying from illnesses once under greater control.
Diseases like tuberculosis and typhoid fever are growing more common. Shortages of chlorine and pumps for water purification have brought a rise in diarrhea and hepatitis. The dearth of medication has turned chronic conditions like asthma, hypertension and diabetes into more serious problems.
"There is an accelerated loss in the entire health system's capacity to cope because of the lack of supplies," a confidential study for the European Community Humanitarian Office reported earlier this year. "If the same tendency continues, there is no doubt that in 1994 and later years, mortality will rise from problems that the health system could resolve."
Health care has remained a central Government priority throughout the economic decline. Even as the system's imports of hard currency have been slashed by almost 70 percent, officials say financing for health care has actually risen over the last five years as a proportion of the overall budget.
"We have fewer resources, but the resources that are indispensable to providing care have been guaranteed," said Miguel Santin, the head of epidemiological services for the Ministry of Public Health. "No hospital has been closed down here. They have maintenance problems, they need paint, but they are still running."
 
Growing Signs Of Problems
 Despite great efforts to sustain it, however, the health care system that has long been a source of pride and political support for the Government of President Fidel Castro has increasingly become a focus of complaints, even from within.
"In recent days, the leadership of the revolution has criticized the existence of serious problems in the health sector," Trabajadores, the weekly newspaper of the Communist Party Labor Union, wrote in an editorial last month. Cubans were noticing, it added, "that the quality of care was deteriorating not only from the effect of inevitable and numerous shortages, but also as a consequence of failures of human action."
There are no gaping gunshot wounds in Cuba's health crisis, no screaming crack users tearing up the emergency rooms. The problems are more basic. Beginning in late 1991, a mysterious disease called neuropathy swept across the island, temporarily impairing the vision or physical functioning of 50,000. Most experts suspect that the illness was caused by a lack of vitamins or other nutrients.
The more common tragedies are like those of a couple prominent in Havana cultural circles who were away from home one day last year when their adolescent son had a severe asthma attack and was out of the inhalers used to control the condition. With no gassed-up cars in the vicinity, friends of the family said, it took the boy precious minutes to reach a local clinic. Lacking the proper equipment to treat him, doctors there sent the boy to a nearby hospital. By the time he got there, he could not be saved.
The erosion that is harder to see is the sort occurring in Migdalia Aguilar, a 51-year-old woman who said she suffered from severe depression.
Striking up a conversation as she walked near the center of Havana with a friend who was keeping an eye on her, Miss Aguilar said she had recently been hospitalized for the fourth time. This time she could no longer obtain anti-depressant medication to take home, and what little she received in the hospital seemed to do no good.
"I came out just the same," she said. "Either they do not have the medicine, or they do not have what you need."
 
Shortages And Other Shocks
 
 
Close to the ground, public medicine in Cuba looks much like the struggle waged in Lima, Peru, or New Delhi or the Bronx. Doctors' compassion tends to be low key; small victories go unremarked.
Maria Teresa Medel, a soft-spoken 26-year-old who is one of 25,000 family practicioners for a population of about 11 million, sees patients all morning at a tiny clinic south of Havana, dispensing more advice and sympathy than anything else.
She says it embarrasses her to write prescriptions that the local pharmacy will be unable to fill. In the afternoon, she pays house calls. Then, the buses generally being absent or full, she hitchhikes home, a trip that can take hours.
"You try to do what you can with what you have," she says. A lot of her medical-school classmates "are just sitting down and saying, 'there are no supplies, no medicines, what am I doing here?' "
Part of the shock to the system comes from the sense of pharmaceutical entitlement that Cubans have acquired over the last three decades. Like surgeons' former willingness to perform cosmetic procedures on demand, the phenomenon is one of many that made the medical system considerably less than efficient in the past. Cubans have often interpreted taking antibiotics whenever they have colds as a universal right.
Since 1989, officials say the country's inventory of medicines has dropped from 1,300 types to about 800, though at a handful of clinics and hospitals visited by a reporter, the checklists were far shorter cabinets and tended to be half-empty.
Health officials say the shortages have been aggravated by the United States economic embargo, which was tightened in 1992 by legislation sponsored by Representative Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey. Because of the embargo, Cuba is forced to import medicines, chemical reagents, equipment and supplies from Europe and Asia at premiums said to average from 20 percent to 30 percent.
 
Herbal Remedies And Hypnosis
 
 
Like other Cubans, doctors, pharmacists and other medical workers have grown expert at what they call inventing and resolving.
Cuban hospitals now have "green" pharmacies where aloe leaves are whipped to make anti-inflammatory creams, herbal teas substitute for sedatives and honey is used to make remedies of all sorts. Acupuncture and even hypnosis are being used for anesthesia. And faced with a severe shortage of X-ray film, radiologists have turned back to fluoroscopy, even though it exposes patients and doctors to more radiation.
The threats to Cubans' health, however, come from beyond the health care system itself.
Like the neuropathy epidemic, more and more problems appear tied to plunging levels of nutrition. According to Government figures, Cubans' average caloric intake fell from 2,845 calories a day in 1989 to 1,780 last year.
Though pregnant women are given special rations and allowed to eat free in workers' cafeterias, for example, the incidences of babies born with low weights and of anemia among expectant mothers have begun to rise. (At the same time, a sharp drop in dietary fat and greater exercise with the use of millions of bicycles for transportation has apparently contributed to a modest decline in deaths by heart attacks.)
Gastrointestinal illnesses have become more prevalent as chlorination of the water system has fallen from 100 percent by about half. Shortages of electricity and gas have forced many Cubans to cook with scrap wood or kerosene, contributing to a rise in respiratory infections. While garbage collection has become more haphazard, some city residents have added to their sanitation problems by raising pigs, chickens and other animals in their apartments.
At the Brothers Almejeira Hospital in Havana, a chief surgeon, Sixto Corona, 60, has seen his patients' soap rations cut to a small sliver, toilet paper rations eliminated entirely and the cleaning staff on his 28-bed ward shrink to one person.
"They say, 'I am going to work in a shopping center or in a hotel, where I can earn dollars,' " he moans. "No doctors have gone yet, but some nurses have."
Swallowing its pride, Cuba has begun to accept donations that might total $15 million this year, said a Deputy Health Minister, Jose B. Jardines. He called the help "largely symbolic," but some of the donors are not so sure.
Rolando Suarez, a lawyer who heads the Havana office of Caritas, tells of struggling for months to squeeze desperately needed medicines out of Cuban factories that the Catholic charity has supplied with more than a $1 million worth of raw materials. Since March, however, only about a fourth of the job has been completed.
"We were supposed to be finished by July, then September, and nothing," he said. "What did they say? 'The electricity went out. The workers did not come. There were no containers to put the medicine in.' "
He added: "We may be able to reach a certain level of stabilization. But if they are hoping to sustain the system with humanitarian aid, they are going to find themselves out of fashion very quickly. There are still places where people are starving to death, and the world's attention span is very short."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuba's health care system has become a victim of the country's economic crisis. Yvette Pino, seated, held her son, Masako Miyasaka, after he was vaccinated by Dinona Gonzalez, a nurse at a Havana clinic. (pg. 1); The health care system in Cuba has deteriorated since the collapse of the former East bloc, a traditonal trading partner. A woman mopped the floor in an intensive care unit in a hospital in Santa Clara, where doctors have resorted to using acupuncture to anesthetize some patients. (Liliana Nieto del Rio/JB Pictures, for The New York Times) (pg. 8)
 
Graph: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Assessing Health Care in Cuba" shows figures related to the measures of health in selected countries in 1992. Graph also tracks the rates of infant morality, low birth weight, and deaths from infectious disease or parasites in Cuba from 1975 through 1993. (Sources: World Bank, World Development Report, 1994 and Cuban Ministry of Public Health, Statistical Yearbook, 1993) (pg. 8)
 
Map of Cuba shows the location of Santa Clara. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SHORTAGES; HOSPITALS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (90%); RADIOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (85%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (75%); TRENDS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); EROSION (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); HEPATITIS (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); DIABETES (70%); HYPERTENSION (67%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (66%); STATISTICS (62%); INFANT MORTALITY (61%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



727 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: DONORS URGE HAITI TO TAX THE RICH

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
As the United States and the World Bank seek to round up the $550 million in international aid planned for Haiti this year, they are urging President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to make sweeping changes in the way Haiti's Government works, including collecting far more in taxes from the rich.
As the effort to restore democracy in Haiti shifts gears with President Aristide now back in office, officials from the Clinton Administration, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are laying out the steps they want taken to put the Government on a solid footing. 
 The task, both immediately and in the long run, is enormous. The economy of what was already the hemisphere's poorest country has been devastated by the three years of military rule and the international embargoes imposed against it.
International aid officials worked with President Aristide on his economic plan during his exile, and it reads like an I.M.F. primer, calling for privatizing industry, slashing the budget deficit and bureaucracy, expanding education programs, removing most price controls and improving tax collection.
But the officials are expressing worry now about the slow pace at which the President is moving to assemble his Government, warning that there would be little point in pouring in anything more than aid until there is a bureaucratic structure in place to accept it.
And while American officials have long urged Father Aristide to abandon his class-conscious, anti-rich oratory, they have joined in the concerted call for making wealthy Haitians pay a greater share of taxes.
"There were lots of exemptions, and tax evasion was pervasive," said an official from the International Monetary Fund. "We're not calling for increasing taxes on the rich so much as collecting taxes from them."
Another recommendation is that President Aristide needs to move decisively to clean up the Government bureaucracy, which under years of military dictatorship focused on lining its pockets instead of providing basic services to the country's 6.7 million people.
"We're making a recommendation to aggressively put into place an anti-corruption mechanism at all levels of the Haitian Government," said Mark Schneider, the Agency for International Development official who is the Clinton Administration's point man on economic aid to Haiti.
Officials in the Administration and international lending agencies say President Aristide has been receptive to their recommendations on taxation and revamping the bureaucracy, but they are waiting to see how he fleshes out the details of his program. It is easy to talk of moving toward a balanced budget or slashing the bureaucracy, these officials say, but it is far harder to make the painful choices required to achieve those goals.
The Administration has pledged $200 million in aid to Haiti this year, a large part of the $550 million that the World Bank estimates the country will need. The Administration anticipates contributing about $100 million a year in subsequent years toward an international aid effort that is expected to reach $1.5 billion over five years.
The European Union has tentatively committed $160 million in aid over the next 15 months. The World Bank is unblocking $100 million in loans for education, health care and small businesses and for cleaning the water supply that were not disbursed because of the 1991 military coup. The Inter-American Development Bank is also unfreezing $100 million in loans.
"With the corrupt military and police gone, this is clearly Haiti's single greatest opportunity to do something significant to improve the life of its people," Mr. Schneider said.
After being brutalized by dictatorship and squeezed by a trade embargo, Haiti is in such wretched shape that aid donors are acting with uncommon urgency.
The Agency for International Development is increasing its feeding program to 1.3 million meals a day and has made an emergency $15 million loan to pay for crucial imports like seed, fertilizer and fuel. Foreign donors plan to put at least 50,000 Haitians to work on cleanup and road-building projects.
To quell dissent from the military, the United States has agreed to finance new jobs for laid-off soldiers when President Aristide shrinks Haiti's army from 7,000 to 1,500.
There is widespread recognition that the President has a daunting task. More than two-thirds of the population is unemployed, and just one in four adults knows how to read. Three-fourths of the children are undernourished, and the Agency for International Development sees an annual food shortage of 740 million pounds -- about 110 pounds for every Haitian. Per capita income has plunged 25 percent in the last two years, to less than $250, the lowest in the hemisphere.
Haiti has the hemisphere's worst infant mortality rate, with more than one in 10 children dying before their first birthday. Much of its once-verdant countryside has been denuded by people who have chopped down trees to make charcoal, causing alarming soil erosion.
President Aristide's economic program, Administration officials say, partly reflects the intensive consultations that the President and his aides had with the Clinton Administration, the I.M.F. and the World Bank when they lived in exile. Several officials say President Aristide has come around to the view that the best way to create jobs and end poverty is to create an environment in which the private sector can flourish.
"His program is like motherhood," said an economist with the International Monetary Fund, which is known for supporting free-market policies and budget discipline. "It's the kind of things we go for."
Believing that many of the 45,000 civil servants are no-shows who owe their jobs to nepotism, President Aristide plans to slash the bureaucracy in half, mostly through buyouts. In trimming the security forces, he plans to salve their reaction by giving many members of the military new jobs, primarily building roads.
Recognizing that the central Government has long been a parasite living on corruption, he has vowed to decentralize power and strengthen local governments. He has also asked the United States and international financial institutions to send teams of experts to teach his Government proper auditing techniques for its ministries and central bank.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "IN THE RED: A G.D.P. Deficit" tracks the percentage change in Haiti's per capita gross domestic product from 1987 through 1993. (Source: United Nations Economic Commission on Latin America and the Caribbean) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL AID INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID; TAXATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX REFORM (73%); POLITICS (73%); TRENDS (73%); TAX FRAUD (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CORRUPTION (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



728 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-15
 
FINANCING HAITI'S GOVERNMENT
The United States and international financial agencies are trying to help Haiti put its Government back on a firm financial footing, and they are urging higher taxes on the rich. 1
 
CUBAN HEALTH CARE ERODING
The economic crisis in Cuba set off by the collapse of its Soviet allies has affected its once-model health care system, and with shortages of almost everything, the quality of care has fallen. 1 

PAST HAUNTS U.S. IN GUYANA
A long-ago reportedly successful C.I.A. effort to depose the leader of British Guiana has come back to haunt the United States now that the country is Guyana and the leader has come back to power. 10
 
DESPAIR IN SRI LANKA
The repeated political violence and years of civil war in Sri Lanka have produced a state of despair, with residents less concerned about who will win the presidency than with the national psyche. 3
 
FACING PEACE IN SYRIA
Many Syrians are not happy at the prospect of peace with Israel, but growing numbers are beginning to wrestle with the idea, considering it inevitable.12
 
South Korea reveals, but closes the book on, a political episode. 4
 
American-backed Kuwaiti troops say they will stand firm. 12
 
Bosnian forces expanded their biggest offensive of the war. 14
 
National 16-40
 
SHOTS FIRED AT WHITE HOUSE
A gunman standing on Pennsylvania Avenue fired at the White House, witnesses said, and one bullet smashed into the briefing room. President Clinton was home at the time, but no one was injured, and a man was taken into custody. 1
 
Secret Service says attack was not an assassination attempt. 30
 
BIAS COMPLAINT AGAINST I.N.S.
Negotiations are scheduled to begin on a discrimination complaint filed by 850 black officers against the Immigration and Naturalization Service. 1
 
NO OUTREACH EQUALS NO VOTES
Discontented black voters are not interested in voting, spelling trouble for Democrats counting on them to win closely contested races. 1
 
FINAL FLURRY OF POLITICKING
Back from the Middle East, President Clinton has turned his energies toward helping Democrats fend off heavy election losses. 22
 
BREAKING REPUBLICAN RANKS
The widow of late Senator John Heinz, a Pennsylvania Republican, attacked the conservative challenging Senator Harris Wofford. 22
 
EAST ST. LOUIS BLUES
The state takeover of a substandard city school district promised relief but raised a question: Must a system collapse before it is seen as educational malpractice? 16
 
ACCEPTING ALL OF GOD'S CHILDREN
The Cathedral of Hope Metropolitan Community Church in Dallas is the home of the nation's largest gay congregation. 16
 
VOTE FOR ME: I'LL LEAVE YOU ALONE
Texas Treasurer Martha Whitehead pledged that she would do her best to disappear if she is re-elected. 24
 
Metro 41-48, 60
 
PATAKI GOES ON THE OFFENSIVE
State Senator Pataki sharply attacked Governor Cuomo; the independent gubernatorial candidate, B. Thomas Golisano, and his fellow Republican, Mayor Giuliani. 1
 
BLACK MINISTERS SEEK A BIG VOTE
Black ministers from more than 800 churches across New Jersey are conducting "get out the vote" campaigns in reaction to comments in 1993 by Edward J. Rollins Jr., the Republican consultant. 41
 
LEGAL AID SOCIETY FACES LAYOFFS
A month after Mayor Giuliani crushed a strike by Legal Aid Society lawyers and proposed budget cuts that could force layoffs, negotiations over Legal Aid's future are to resume this week. 41
 
BRYANT PARK: TO SEE AND BE SEEN
A year ago, when leading New York fashion designers moved their runway shows to Bryant Park, they spoke of convenience, added seats and economic lift. They got that, and more: a social juggernaut. 41
 
Obituaries 49
 
Charles E. Stewart Jr., Federal Judge in Manhattan.
 
Nancy M. Rambusch, educator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); GUYANA (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); SYRIA (92%); CUBA (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); GUYANA (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); SYRIA (92%); CUBA (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ASSASSINATION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); POLITICS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CHILDREN (69%); CIVIL WAR (68%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



729 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: Hyperbole Takes to the Runway;
The Sirens of Fashion Beckon for a Week -- and Then Some

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL 

 BODY:
A year ago, when leading New York fashion designers moved their runway shows to a central location -- two white tents behind the New York Public Library in Bryant Park -- they spoke of the convenience, the added seats for buyers and press and a hoped-for economic lift for one of the city's major industries. They got that, and more: a social juggernaut.
Today, when the semiannual fashion week opens in New York, the hottest shows will tingle with the excitement of an old-time movie premiere, and the status conferred by an invitation is leading the socially ambitious to beg, cry and threaten their way in. The siren call of paparazzi will cause V.I.P.'s, both rising and fading, to elbow their way to the front rows, and designers will be shameless about planting celebrities in the seats. 
 Fashion week, once a nuts-and-bolts market, has become a happening, as surely as when a political convention or the United States Open tennis tournament comes to town.
"There was a time in New York in the late 70's and early 80's when you went out and could cut the electricity in the air," said Ian Schrager, the Studio 54 founder-turned-hotelier. "The only other time I sense that energy is during fashion week. You can't get taxi cabs. You can't get reservations in a restaurant. It's not only restricted to fashion people. It's like when high tide comes in and all the boats get lifted."
Although there are no studies of fashion week's economic impact on hotels, restaurants or the $22 billion New York fashion industry in general, individual businesses say they have noticed a difference. The designer Cynthia Rowley said her orders were up about 30 percent this year over last year, from $12 million to about $15.5 million, a gain she traces to the higher profile she has had since showing in the tents.
Fashion has always been a glamorous industry. But lately it is occupying a larger place in the culture, a development seen everywhere from the apotheosis of models into household names (Naomi, Linda, Cindy) to Robert Altman's warily anticipated movie, "Pret-a-Porter," a fashion spoof, to this week's all-fashion issue of The New Yorker. A party on Friday night to celebrate the issue, at the Academy Theater on West 42d Street, drew Giorgio Armani, Donna Karan and Isaac Mizrahi, as well as the actress Lauren Hutton, Tabitha Soren of MTV, the art gallery owner Larry Gagosian and the financier Teddy Forstmann.
In all, there are 51 shows planned for the tents or the library's auditoriums, beginning with Nancy Severin's presentation at noon today and ending with Donna Karan's on Friday night. The fact that there are many more seats available than when the shows were held in cramped designers' showrooms -- 800 in the larger of the two tents and 600 in the smaller -- has not quenched the desire to get in, only increased it.
"We could hold Todd's show at Madison Square Garden and fill it easily," Kevin Krier, a leading fashion show producer, said with perhaps understandable hyperbole, since he is staging Todd Oldham's show on Tuesday. It is one of the most sought-after invitations because of its mix of Hollywood flash and downtown trash. "People have offered money for a ticket," said Mr. Krier, the owner of Kevin Krier & Associates, a production and public relations company. "People cry. People scream and yell and tell me how important they are."
The invitation-only audiences for the shows include mostly working fashion editors and buyers. But now that most presentations are in the tents and the crowds have increased greatly, there is room for everyone from entertainment moguls to "Entertainment Tonight," from fashion students to fashion groupies.
"You have journalists and models and celebrities and retailers and V.I.P.'s descending upon a centralized location, and you're creating the opportunity for a buzz to be created," said Ed Filipowski, a partner in Keeble Cavaco & Duka, which is producing shows for Calvin Klein, Anna Sui and others. "The paparazzi have come out of the woodwork since the tents began. It's like a feeding frenzy."
 
For Businesses, An Early Christmas
 Photographers who chronicle celebrities are just one of many ancillary businesses that thrive during fashion week. For them, the arrival of the fashion circus is like Christmas, with so many beautifully wrapped packages all in one place.
"It used to be all the people around the runway were photographing just the outfits," said Patrick McMullan, a photographer who covers the shows for magazines like New York. "Now, every photographer with a camera tries to get in to shoot the audience as well as the supermodels. It's not about the outfits anymore. It's about the personalities."
It is the same for editors of celebrity-driven magazines like Vanity Fair and for gossip columnists, who can take an instant reading of who is in and who is out from the seating plans at the shows. Invitees have their names taped to seats, with the front rows the object of all eyes.
"There's definitely a meaning to the rows -- everyone's seated really carefully," said Peter Davis, who writes a gossip column for Paper magazine.
With nightclubs on the wane, fashion shows are filling a void for the glitter crowd: socializing lite. "The shows last all of 20 minutes, but it's like a whole schmooze fest before and after," said Nancy Kane of the public relations firm Jason Weinberg & Associates. "If you could say, 'I was backstage at Isaac Mizrahi's show this year,' that's the coolest thing to say in the New York social world."
Mr. Filipowski assigns the seats for Ms. Sui's show as carefully as for a dinner party, though one intended to transmute rubbernecking and conversation into golden sales. He seats retailers who adore Ms. Sui near reporters for Women's Wear Daily, who look for quotes afterward. Editors from Elle, Vogue and Harper's Bazaar are clustered in flocks to be able to trade gossip. A critic who may not be a fan is seated across from one who is, to witness the enthusiasm. And a Conde Nast celebrity like James Truman or Grayden Carter is seated beside a Hollywood celebrity as a kind of conversational party favor.
 
Fashion Purists Long For Old Days
 Not everyone approves of the new prominence. Fashion purists, upset at the attention paid to the audience at the expense of clothes, are nostalgic for the old days.
"They've become a little, how should I put this, popular for my taste," said Fran Lebowitz, the author, who has attended Mr. Klein's shows for years. "All these boys come now, young actors who come to look at the girls. There's a hockey game atmosphere. I never had a drink spilled on me at a fashion show before."
Clubs and certain small restaurants know that if they corral the fashion types, they will coast on the word of mouth long afterward.
"It sets the tone for the rest of the year," said Mark Baker, a co-owner of Flowers, a restaurant on West 17th Street in Chelsea, and Buddha Bar on Varick Street in SoHo. "There's no way in a year you'll get that many people of that quality in your restaurant at one time. It's a big social event. It's huge. You'll live off that press for the next six months."
When it comes to choosing locations for parties, it's the newest places in town that have an edge, and some clubs and restaurants time their openings to the shows.
"The fashion industry tends to become very jaded, always looking for something more stimulating," said Derek Anderson, who selected the just-reopened Studio 54 for the show and post-show party on Friday for Laura Whitcomb, a designer who is showing a line with a James Bond theme.
Casa La Femme, a SoHo restaurant that was hot after it opened during the shows in October 1991 and then cooled, felt the cruel sting of fashion's infatuation with the new. The restaurant sent more than 100 letters to designers offering to hold parties, and virtually all declined. But the restaurant did land at least one prize, a dinner to view a video of the collection by Jennifer George, who was unable to stage a traditional show because she is about to give birth.
 
Everyone Has A Finger In It
 Hotels, too, seek to minister to the itinerant fashion tribes, in the hope that their cachet will attract other business. The Royalton and the Paramount near Times Square, known for their avant-garde decor, are booked solid. The Mayfair on Park Avenue specializes in Italian fashion people, enticing journalists and designers like Ottavio Missoni and Miuccia Prada with room upgrades and other courtesies. The Macklowe on West 45th Street offers corporate discounts to Macy's, Donna Karan New York and others, with the result that 22 percent of the hotel's annual business is derived from the fashion industry.
"Everyone wants to have their finger in it," said Maureen O'Brien, a sales manager at the Macklowe.
A clear indicator of the shows' new status is the number of celebrities and would-be celebrities in the audience, drawn like moths to a flame. "Celebrities want to come because it puts them in the spotlight," Mr. Filipowski said bluntly.
To be sure, some of the A-list names who have attended in recent seasons, like Julia Roberts, Barbra Streisand and Barry Diller, probably have all the attention they want. They go to show support for a designer they know, for the fun of it or even to shop.
But insiders agree that most celebrities in attendance are looking to be seen and talked about.
"I think a lot of publicists encourage their clients to attend shows, especially ones looking to plug something," said Mr. Davis, the columnist. "They're going to get interviewed. It's one paparazzi trap after the next, outside the tents, inside, right at the entrance."
This season, many designers have received requests for invitations on behalf of the singer Crystal Waters, who recently released an album. Representatives for Janet Jackson have fished for invitations for herself and a bodyguard from Mr. Mizrahi, Mr. Oldham, Ralph Lauren and Ms. Sui, all of whom were happy to seat them. And Mickey Rourke, regularly named to worst-dressed lists, has blitzed designers with faxes asking for seats. "Being that Mr. Rourke has never attended the shows before, we would like to request front row seating," read the fax sent by the office of Mr. Rourke's publicist, Richard Pollmann.
Other sought-after invitations are for a party for 200 to be given by Mr. Klein at Nell's on Friday night, and a post-show party for the design house Ghost in a former synagogue downtown on Wednesday night.
"It seems the party rivals the fashion show as an important thing to go to," said Benjamin Liu, a consultant to Ghost's designer, Tanya Sarne. "I told Tanya the other day, 'Maybe we should all go into the nightclub business.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fashion week, once a nuts-and-bolts market, is now a happening, centering on two white tents in Bryant Park behind New York Public Library. E. G. Smith, a sock designer, recently put the finishing touches on his display; Workers at Kevin Krier & Associates coordinate seating arrangements for the designer Todd Oldham's show. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. 41); Last year, leading New York fashion designers moved their runway shows to two white tents in Bryant Park. Since then, said Ed Filipowski, a producer of shows, "the paparazzi have come out of the woodwork." (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CYNTHIA ROWLEY (53%); NEW YORK (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRYANT PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; WOMEN; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); FASHION DESIGN (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); READY TO WEAR (89%); FILM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); ART DEALERS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (56%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); LARRY GAGOSIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



730 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: A Kennedy-C.I.A. Plot Returns to Haunt Clinton

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
It was a small clandestine operation in a little South American country three decades ago. President Kennedy ordered the Central Intelligence Agency to subvert the country's leader. The leader fell, and the C.I.A.'s men quietly left town.
Time passed, and the wheels of history turned. The cold war ended, and with its end the fallen leader was elected President of what is now independent Guyana. United States law says it is time to unseal the secret documents that detail Kennedy's plot against him. 
 But State Department and C.I.A. officials refuse to release them, saying it is not worth the embarrassment.
Keeping secrets can cause embarrassment too. In June the Clinton Administration prepared to send a new Ambassador to the little country -- apparently unaware that the prospective nominee had helped to undermine the restored leader.
The events of 30 years ago may be filed and forgotten in Washington; they are fresh in the memory of those who lived through them.
The story begins in 1953, when British Guiana, an English-speaking colony peopled by the descendants of slaves and laborers from Africa and India, elected its first native-born Prime Minister: Cheddi Jagan, a son of the colonial plantations, an American-educated dentist and an admirer of the works of Karl Marx.
Four months later, Churchill suspended British Guiana's Constitution and ordered its Government dissolved. Dr. Jagan was too leftist for Churchill's taste, though the people of British Guiana liked him.
Dr. Jagan and his wife, the former Janet Rosenberg of Chicago, were freed from jail after the British restored constitutional government, and he was re-elected in 1957 and 1961.
The latter year saw Kennedy's disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion, aimed at overthrowing Cuba's leader, Fidel Castro. A newspaper cartoon of the day depicted a double-barrel shotgun aimed at the United States. One barrel was labeled "Cuba," the other "British Guiana."
On Oct. 25, 1961, Prime Minister Jagan went to the White House, seeking financial aid and offering assurances.
"I went to see President Kennedy to seek the help of the United States, and to seek his support for our independence from the British," he said in a recent interview. "He was very charming and jovial. Now, the United States feared that I would give Guyana to the Russians. I said if this is your fear, fear not. We will not have a Soviet base. I raised the question of aid. They did not give a positive response. The meeting ended on this note."
The meeting was recorded by the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. in "A Thousand Days," his memoir of the Kennedy White House. "Jagan was unquestionably some sort of a Marxist," he wrote, but also "plainly the most popular leader in British Guiana," adding, "The question was whether he was recoverable for democracy." Another question was whether he and his nation of 600,000 represented a threat to the United States.
Kennedy told Dr. Jagan that United States policy toward his country was clear: "National independence. This is the basic thing. As long as you do that, we don't care whether you are socialist, capitalist, pragmatist or whatever. We regard ourselves as pragmatists." A joint statement was issued, committing Dr. Jagan "to uphold the political freedoms" that were his inheritance.
After Dr. Jagan left Washington, Kennedy met in secret with his top national security officers. A pragmatic plan took shape.
Still-classified documents depict in unusual detail a direct order from the President to unseat Dr. Jagan, say Government officials familiar with the secret papers.
Though many Presidents have ordered the C.I.A. to undermine foreign leaders, they say, the Jagan papers are a rare smoking gun: a clear written record, without veiled words or plausible denials, of a President's command to depose a Prime Minister.
In short order, things started going badly for British Guiana.
"It was after the meeting with Kennedy that the cold war heated up here," recalled Janet Jagan, then a minister in her husband's Government.
Previously unheard-of radio stations went on the air in the capital, Georgetown. The papers printed false stories about approaching Cuban warships. Civil servants walked out. The labor unions revolted. Riots took the lives of more than 100 people.
The key was the unions, whose rebellion crippled the Government and the economy. And the unions were taking advice and money from an interesting assortment of American organizations.
Among them, say the Jagans and historians familiar with the events, was the American Institute for Free Labor Development, headed by a labor official named William C. Doherty Jr.
The institute, an international program run by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., long has aided anti-Communist unions abroad. In the 1950's and early 1960's, former United States intelligence officers say, the C.I.A. slipped money to the institute. The ties between the agency and the institute have long since been severed.
The agitation grew throughout 1962 and 1963. "A fire was set in the center of town," Dr. Jagan said. "The wind fanned the flames, and the center of the city burned. There are still scars. Then they changed their tactics. This is where the C.I.A. support came in full. They imposed a full blockade on shipping and airlines. We were helpless. We had no power."
The British, at the suggestion of the Kennedy Administration, delayed their colony's scheduled independence and changed its electoral system in October 1963. Now the electorate had to vote for parties instead of people, and a still popular but politically weakened Dr. Jagan fell from power. Once he fell, the British granted independence to the new republic of Guyana.
For the next 20 years the country was governed by Forbes Burnham -- "as the British described him, an opportunist, racist and demagogue intent only on personal power," to quote from "A Thousand Days." He held power through force and fraud until his death in 1985.
He ran up a foreign debt of more than $2 billion, a sum more than five times Guyana's gross domestic product. Interest on that debt now consumes 80 percent of the country's revenue and more than half of its foreign earnings.
"They made a mistake putting Burnham in," Janet Jagan said. "The regrettable part is that the country went backwards." One of the better-off countries in the region 30 years ago, Guyana today is among the poorest. Its principal export is people.
In 1992, in the country's first free elections in three decades, Dr. Jagan was elected President. In June of this year, unaware of the still-classified Kennedy-Jagan documents, the Clinton Administration prepared to nominate a new Ambassador to Guyana: William C. Doherty Jr., executive director of the American Institute for Free Labor Development.
"I was flabbergasted," President Jagan said. "We let it be known that we were not happy." His unhappiness derailed plans to nominate Mr. Doherty, who has declined several requests for an interview.
Dr. Jagan said the documents about the plot against him should be published, and he laughed at the idea that they might anger him or embarrass the United States.
"Everybody in Guyana knows what happened," he said. "I don't understand why they should be kept secret. I'm not going to use these documents to blackmail the United States. Maybe President Clinton doesn't know our history, but the people who advise him should at least know their own history."
The law demands the declassification of Government papers after 30 years, unless they compromise national security secrets. Dozens of Kennedy Administration documents on British Guiana remain locked away, and the State Department and the C.I.A. say they should stay that way.
Another volume dealing with Japan is in limbo, because it details the Kennedy Administration's secret support for Japanese conservatives, Government officials said. If either set is blocked, it would a first. No full volume of the State Department's foreign policy documents has ever been withheld because of Government secrecy.
Mr. Schlesinger, whose "Thousand Days" offers the best-known account of the Kennedy-Jagan encounter -- an account that he now acknowledges is incomplete -- said the documents should be released, so history can be revised.
"We misunderstood the whole struggle down there," Mr. Schlesinger said. "He wasn't a Communist. The British thought we were overreacting, and indeed we were. The C.I.A. decided this was some great menace, and they got the bit between their teeth. But even if British Guiana had gone Communist, it's hard to see how it would be a threat."
The full story, he said, proved the truth of Oscar Wilde's witticism: "The one duty we owe to history is to rewrite it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Kennedy met with Prime Minister Cheddi Jagan of British Guiana at the White House in October 1961. Dr. Jagan left the meeting saying he was hopeful about the prospect of aid from the United States, but Kennedy soon ordered a clandestine C.I.A. operation to bring down the leftist leader. (United Press International/Bettman Archive, 1961); Labor agitation in British Guiana led to a fire that virtually destroyed the center of Georgetown, the capital, in February 1962. Dr. Jagan says the C.I.A. further undermined him, and he lost his post in elections in 1963. (Associated Press, 1962); Cheddi Jagan, once British Guiana's Prime Minister, is now independent Guyana's President. (Michael Norville for The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Map shows the location of Gerogetown, Guyana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUYANA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CUBA (86%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: GEORGETOWN, GUYANA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUYANA; GUYANA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CUBA (86%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GEORGETOWN, GUYANA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GUYANA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); POLITICS (73%); TRENDS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; KENNEDY, JOHN FITZGERALD (1917-63); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JAGAN, CHEDDI (PRIME MIN); DOHERTY, WILLIAM C JR; BURNHAM, FORBES ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN F KENNEDY (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



731 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
Campaigns' Tenor Disappoints Black Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 29

 BODY:
T. J. Smith is a lifelong resident of west Philadelphia who eagerly voted for Bill Clinton in 1992, thinking a new administration would bring him a better job and a safer neighborhood. But he is still doing odd jobs, and Mr. Smith now fears that he and his wife will be unable to provide properly for their first child, due in May.
Disappointed in President Clinton and put off by hostile television commercials in which the statewide candidates seem to talk about nothing but locking up criminals, Mr. Smith and his wife, Bernadette, said they would not vote this year. And they complained that no one was trying to change their minds. The politicians, they say, are more interested in courting white middle-class voters than blacks like them. 
 "It took us black people so long to get to vote," said Mr. Smith, who is 29. "Now, they're making us not want to vote."
It is a tale heard from black voters around the country -- and one that spells trouble for Democrats counting on a respectable black turnout to win several closely contested races for Federal, state and local offices.
Here in Pennsylvania, where Senator Harris Wofford, a Democrat, is struggling to fight off Representative Rick Santorum, a Republican, backing from black voters could make the difference. That is also the case in several other tight contests, including the race in Virginia of Senator Charles S. Robb, a Democrat, against Oliver L. North, a Republican, and battles for the Senate or governorships in California, Georgia, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, New York and Ohio.
If this is the season of voter discontent, it is particularly true among black voters, who have long been the most dependable Democratic partisans, casting 82 percent of their ballots for Mr. Clinton in 1992, and 89 percent for Democratic House candidates that year.
But registered black voters traditionally go to the polls less frequently than whites. In the 1990 Congressional election, 39 percent of registered blacks voted, compared with nearly 49 percent of whites, according to the Census Bureau.
Though black voters are not about to defect to the Republican Party, many say that as they watch their neighborhoods fall into neglect, they have no patience for the new tough lines from Democrats on crime and welfare, which many interpret as anti-black.
"All I hear is these Democratic candidates talking about the crime bill," said Chris Williams, 46, an iron worker here. "But why do they talk about just building jails? Why don't they talk about building schools? That's not asking a lot."
But unlike other loyal Democrats, many blacks said in interviews that they had not soured on Mr. Clinton and gave him credit for intervening in Haiti and for trying on issues like health care.
Still, their bottom line was that Washington seemed to have done little to help them. And they said that they felt neglected and that Democratic candidates were not even making the effort to get them to vote.
"What politicians offer blacks is no good to us," said Willie A. Parham, a 25-year-old maintenance worker in Richmond who, after steadily voting for years, has no interest in the elections this year. "It's like the Janet Jackson song, 'What Have You Done For Me Lately?' " He said that he lost faith in the system when the Government refused to pay for burials after a mass slaying in a local housing project.
In Cleveland, Teralawanda Aron, 24, a market researcher, said she was fed up with Democrats who did not seem to care about crime in the inner cities. "Every election we always come up with the short end of the deal," she said. "In Cleveland, you can walk down the street and get robbed, and nobody will say anything; the police won't stop or anything."
Black voters in Georgia are so disillusioned with Gov. Zell Miller that some, like Joe Beasley, southeast director for the Rainbow Coalition, said they would probably vote for the Republican, Guy Millner. "We are ready to cast our lot with the devil," Mr. Beasley told The Atlanta Journal and Constitution.
And Mario Morrow, a political consultant in Detroit, put it this way: "You get to the point where some African-Americans say, why bother, unless there's some candidate so offensive they just have to vote against."
The sense that Democrats have not done enough to court black voters is well founded. After an intense battle with the Democratic National Committee, the White House prevailed last week and decided that several hundred thousand dollars for radio advertisements that were to be narrowly aimed at black and Hispanic voters should instead go to an effort to reach a broader audience with television commercials attacking the Republican Party's "Contract With America."
Some Democratic Party officials argued that it was a serious mistake to ignore these minority voters. But Tony Coelho, dispatched by the White House as a senior adviser to the party, said it would do no good to focus too narrowly on one or two voting groups when all Democratic voters of all demographic groups were inclined to stay home.
"The wind was so strong against us that we had to do something to calm it down," Mr. Coelho said. "It doesn't do you any good just to target certain areas if the gale winds are blowing because minority areas are just like any other areas -- they are impacted by national psychological moods."
Jesse Jackson, the two-time Presidential candidate who is mulling over challenging Mr. Clinton for the Democratic nomination in 1996, is nevertheless traveling from city to city this week and next week encouraging black voters to participate this year. The problem, he said, is that Democrats have become too caught up in trying to look tough on crime and should instead highlight the Democratic achievements that would give hope to the inner cities -- and the voters there.
"The crime message is being oversold," Mr. Jackson said. "The assumption is that Americans are so petrified of crime that they cannot think about the earned income tax credit to help people work their way out of poverty, or the legitimate struggle for a health care bill, or that the deficit is down and the market's up."
The second part of Mr. Jackson's message is to scare blacks into voting -- a tactic that some local politicians are trying here. In a radio commercial for a candidate for state Senate, broadcast today on a popular black radio station here, the announcer warned, "If we want to stop the Republicans from abusing our families and ignoring our community, then we've got to come out and vote on Tuesday, Nov. 8, and vote Democrat."
David A. Bositis, a senior analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, which examines issues facing blacks, said that in several states there might be a replay of what happened last year when former Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey took for granted that he would win strong support from black voters and stressed a centrist Democratic campaign message. He lost. The same thing happened to former Gov. James Blanchard of Michigan, who lost by one percentage point four years ago to Gov. John Engler, who is running again this year.
"Florio has one of the absolute best records of any Governor in the country with policies relating to black people," Mr. Bositis said. "Yet he ran as a 'New Democrat' and did nothing to court the black vote. And right now, the Democrats aren't going after the black votes. Their message is aimed almost entirely, exclusively at the white vote."
Kevin Gray, a Democratic organizer in Columbia, S.C., said the problem was compounded by the disarray among national black leaders, like the upheaval at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. "With the civil rights leadership under attack," he said, "there's no organizing, no overwhelming reason why people should be excited."
In Pennsylvania, Senator Wofford has an impeccable record on civil rights and was a confidant of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He was also the catalyst for the debate over a new health care system that so many black voters say they want.
Yet even Mr. Wofford has failed to energize black voters in his race against Mr. Santorum. "People want to know what these candidates will do for them," said Marian Tasco, a City Councilwoman here since 1988. "Why should they vote for Wofford over Santorum? It's got to mean something to the person who lives on Fayette Street, mean something for their lives."
Indeed, in a series of interviews here in west Philadelphia, where paint is peeling off the doors of buildings and drug addicts seem more prevalent than in the past, several residents complained that Mr. Wofford had done little campaigning in their neighborhoods. And they said that whatever he had done, they had not felt the benefits.
"He's been a little too quiet, he hasn't done enough," Mr. Williams, the iron worker, said of Mr. Wofford. "I'm going to hold my nose and vote for him because a vote is all I have."
Gordon Brown, a volunteer who was raking leaves at the Lombard Central Presbyterian Church but who does not have a paying job, said, "The thing I respect Clinton for is that he tried to get into the churches, the community." As for Mr. Wofford and other Democrats, like Mark S. Singel, the lieutenant Governor who is running for Governor, he said: "I don't see them in the neighborhoods."
As she was buying a 25-cent pretzel from a street vendor, Renee Harris, a 26-year-old service representative at an auto repair shop, was surprised anyone would ask her if she would vote. "Am I going to vote? Honestly? No," she said. "The politicians are ignoring the black community."
J. G. Kirk, a 69-year-old retired Army maintenance worker, was one of many residents who ticked off how much it cost the Government to jail a prisoner for a year. He said the money could be better spent if it were sent directly to communities so they could improve conditions from the bottom up. "We've got a three-ring circus here: suburbia, the Main Line and the ghetto," he said on the steps to his walk-up apartment, separating his mail into piles. "They should drop $20 million in each place."
Asked what it would take to get him to the polls on Nov. 8, Mr. Smith, the father-to-be, said the answer was easy: "The main issue is getting us jobs so people don't have to do crime. I'd like to hear from the politicians, 'We're not doing it for ourselves but for you guys.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It took us black people so long to get to vote," said T. J. Smith, a 29-year-old resident of west Philadelphia. "Now, they're making us not want to vote." He and his wife, Bernadette, expect their first child in May; "Am I going to vote? Honestly? No," said Renee Harris, 26, a service representative at an auto repair shop who was surprised to be asked the question. "The politicians are ignoring the black community," she said; J. G. Kirk, a 69-year-old retired Army maintenance worker, said the Government should send money directly to communities so they could improve conditions from the bottom up. (Photographs by Tim Schafer for The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); VOTER BEHAVIOR; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; WELFARE (US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) VOTERS & VOTING (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (50%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RICK SANTORUM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



732 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Despite Critics, Dairy Farmers Increase Use of a Growth Hormone In Cows

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: VOGEL CENTER, Mich., Oct. 29

 BODY:
Despite consumer wariness about milk produced by cows injected with a genetically engineered hormone, thousands of dairy farmers across the country are adopting the new drug to increase production in their cows.
The drug's manufacturer, the Monsanto Company, estimates that 7 percent of the nation's roughly 150,000 dairy farmers are using the drug and says it has been satisfied with sales. 
 But Jeremy Rifkin, president of the Pure Food Campaign in Washington and a critic of biotechnology, noted that more than 90 percent of dairy farmers were not using the hormone, which he cited as evidence of the effectiveness of the national boycott that his group is leading of milk produced with the drug.
Both Monsanto and Mr. Rifkin said there had been scattered reports from New York, Florida and Michigan of significant problems with cows injected with the hormone, including severe udder infections and deaths, that some farmers attributed to the drug.
The drug, bovine somatotropin, or BST, went on sale in early February. A nearly exact copy of a cow's natural growth hormone, it is produced by inserting a gene from a cow into the genetic code of bacteria that reproduce rapidly.
The drug, injected twice monthly at the base of a cow's tail, is designed to increase milk production 5 percent to 20 percent.
BST is the first economically important product of genetic engineering to be widely used on American farms and has drawn protests and sharp attacks from critics. Some of the nation's largest supermarket chains and dairy cooperatives have refused to buy dairy products from cows treated with the drug.
Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports magazine, said the drug was a threat to the health of people and cows, a view disputed by the Food and Drug Administration. Opponents in the farm community said that by increasing milk supplies, the drug would lower prices and put thousands of family-owned dairy farms out of business. And last spring, several Congressmen asserted that the drug's approval might have been improperly influenced by three officials at the F.D.A. who were closely allied with Monsanto.
After investigating the F.D.A.'s work on reviewing and approving BST, the General Accounting Office released a report on Friday that cleared the three officials of those claims and said their work had met Government ethics standards.
Never before has a new farm technology attracted such attention at its outset, and even farmers who use BST are concerned that it carries a stigma.
"More and more farmers around here are using it," said Jim Winkel, a 31-year-old dairy farmer in this tiny northern Michigan town. "They just aren't talking about it. You just are never sure where a person stands on the thing."
Last March, just weeks after BST went on sale, Mr. Winkel and his older brother, Jack, conducted a private test on 50 cows. The results were so encouraging that the Winkels said they now used BST in 150 of their 330 cows and had not experienced health problems in the herd.
"We figured that to make it pay, we had to increase milk production six pounds a day in the animals we treat," said Mr. Winkel, whose farm spans 1,100 acres here. "In our young heifers, the 2-year-old cows, we are getting seven pounds more a day. In our mature cows, we are getting 14 pounds more. Our herd average was 80 pounds of milk a day per cow last year. Now it's 85 to 90 pounds. So we're making money with it."
Monsanto says that in the six months after BST went on sale, some 10,000 dairy farmers tried the genetically engineered hormone. More than 800,000 of the nation's 9.5 million cows were treated with 6.8 million doses, the company said.
"The product is doing well," said Walter P. Hobgood, vice president of Monsanto's animal science division. "It's meeting our expectations, and our expectations were high. Our target for the year was to break even, and we are on track to do that."
Mr. Rifkin, president of the Washington group leading the national boycott of dairy products produced with the drug, said: "The real story is that Monsanto has launched the biggest sales promotion campaign of any drug in U.S. history, and it is not successful. The overwhelming majority of dairy farmers are not using it."
The Department of Agriculture said that the use of BST was the most important reason that milk production in September was 10.5 billion pounds, 3 percent more than in the same month last year. Higher production pushed prices down to an average of $12.70 per hundred pounds of milk, 10 cents lower than last year.
The department also said that farmers were generally cautious about adopting new technology, and that for 7 percent of dairy farmers to have accepted the hormone within the first six months of its introduction was a higher rate than they had expected.
Mark A. Kastel, a staff member with the Wisconsin Farmers Union, a group in Chippewa Falls that opposes the drug, said the lower prices were threatening small dairy farmers. Mr. Kastel said his group had also received more than 40 reports from farmers across the country who blamed BST for infections and other health problems in their herds.
John Shumway, a dairy producer from Lowville, N.Y., told the farmers group that he had stopped using BST and had been forced to sell 34 of his 200 cows because they had developed mastitis, a potentially severe udder infection. Charles Knight, a dairy farmer from Florida, reported similar problems.
Here in Michigan, Larry Siemen, a farmer from Harbor Beach, about 100 miles north of Detroit, reported that two of his cows had died after he used BST and that using the hormone had not significantly increased milk production.
Steve Schulte, a farmer who lives nearby, said one of his cows died in mid-March, eight days after receiving a third treatment with the drug. An autopsy revealed that the cow had died of an internal hemorrhage.
"I gave her the shots, and her milk production went up 50 percent," Mr. Schulte said. "She may have had a bit of a problem internally and all that extra production, it just burst something in there."
Monsanto said that in the first six months of sales, it received 95 reports from farmers who were having problems. The company said 36 cows treated with the drug had died, and 14 farmers had reported problems with mastitis.
Dr. Steve Sundlof, a veterinarian and Director of the F.D.A.'s Center for Veterinary Medicine, said his agency was monitoring the reports of problems but did not consider them worrisome. Mastitis is a common bacterial disease on dairy farms and is generally caused by inadequately cleaning milking equipment or other herd management problems, Dr. Sundlof said.
Jim O'Hara, the F.D.A's chief spokesman, added that the mortality rate of cows in modern herds is 1.5 percent per year and that 36 deaths reported among the hundreds of thousands of cows treated with BST was unusually low.
"We have a monitoring program in place that over time should tell us if there are any problems," said Dr. Sundlof. "The numbers we are receiving don't indicate a problem."
Dr. Simon Kenyon, an associate professor at the Purdue University School of Veterinary Medicine in West Lafayette, Ind., said that BST was being used on about 10 percent of Indiana's 2,500 dairy farms. Dr. Kenyon added that neither he nor Purdue's veterinary school accepted research funds from Monsanto.
"The use of BST requires that people pay attention," Dr. Kenyon said. "The condition of the cows is important. It's a new tool and like other tools that have come along in the dairy industry, it has to be managed to work effectively."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO; PURE FOOD CAMPAIGN (ORGN) MONSANTO CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO; PURE FOOD CAMPAIGN (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; HORMONES; GENETIC ENGINEERING; BOYCOTTS FARMERS & RANCHERS (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); DAIRY FARMING (91%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); MILK (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BACTERIA (68%); ETHICS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; RIFKIN, JEREMY JEREMY RIFKIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



733 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Failure Calls Illinois City Home Turf

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: EAST ST. LOUIS, Ill.

 BODY:
Here, in one of the United States' worst school districts, this is what children could expect this fall: Classes led by janitors or other students. An hour wasted in a gym every day because a math class had no teacher. Kindergarten classes with 50 children, and a hot-lunch choice of bologna or hot dogs.
Substandard schools were tolerated here for years, but this fall the the system completely broke down, leading the State of Illinois to take financial control of it on Oct. 20, as it had of City Hall several years ago. And if the takeover of the East St. Louis School District promised some relief, it also raised two questions: Does it take a total collapse, as occurred here, to be seen as educational malpractice? And will the solution go much beyond a return to the merely substandard? 
 Routine failure in this impoverished district has been accepted almost as a matter of course. These are schools, after all, where Gloria Dismuke, who teaches a class of fifth and sixth graders mixed together at Mandela Elementary School, had to pause when asked to recount any success stories.
She thinks of one girl who became her high school valedictorian and went on to a state college in Illinois. "We don't see too many of the boys, after they leave," she said. "But I know of one who finished high school and is working in two fast-food restaurants."
Whether the state can raise expectations is an open question. In assuming financial oversight of the schools here, the Illinois Board of Education approved a plan that would allow the district to rehire 41 teachers released a year ago in the midst of a financial crisis. It also clears the way for state oversight of a district long known for inadequate resources, financial mismanagement and nepotism and cronyism in hiring.
"What's happened this year hasn't been a disaster, or at least it's been a wonderful disaster," said Irl Solomon, who has taught for 30 years in the district. "It's finally making people take notice of what's happening here."
But for now, the takeover means no more money to fix broken furnaces, replace the missing sinks in the fetid bathrooms, repair the worn-out buildings or upgrade the lunch programs. In "Savage Inequalities," Jonathan Kozol's angry look at the way urban schools so often fail the poor, the East St. Louis district was Exhibit A.
And in the long term, some skeptics say, dealing with this year's crisis does not guarantee that any of the district's chronic problems will be solved.
"I think the district can do a lot more with what it has, so to that extent this is positive," said Thomas E. Kennedy 3d, a lawyer who has sued the district in the past on behalf of students and parents. "But what this does is get us back to square one, and square one is just no good."
Located on the Mississippi River flood plain just across the river from St. Louis, East St. Louis since World War II has gone from a bustling industrial community to a forlorn eyesore. The only new industry to locate here in years is a riverboat casino, the Casino Queen, but all of its tax revenue goes to the city and state, not to the schools. The schools, which have 14,000 students, have the poorest tax base per student and the highest property tax rate in the state.
The population of 40,000, half what it was in 1945, is virtually all black, and about two-thirds are on some form of public assistance. The city government, on the verge of its own collapse a few years back, is also being run with state oversight.
Problems in the schools themselves are nothing new. Mr. Kozol's book, which he researched from 1988 to 1990, portrays East St. Louis as a place where lead poisoning is endemic, where science laboratories are 30 to 50 years outdated, where teachers pay for their own supplies and schools were periodically closed because of raw sewage that overflowed into the buildings.
Amid mounting financial problems, the district last year laid off 114 teachers and 94 other employees and agreed not to replace 120 teachers who retired. Two years ago the district had about 1,000 teachers and now it has about 750. "We do not believe that the impact will be negative," the district said into a memorandum to the state.
But even here, the fallout became impossible to ignore. Special education teachers were shunted into regular classes, and their students left without the extra help they need. Classes of 40 or 50 students were common.
To walk the halls of schools like East St. Louis's decrepit Lansdowne Junior High, where students like Vanessa Wright spend an hour each day in the school gym doing nothing because their math class has no teacher and the din of shouting students produces an incessant cacophony, is to see a school in total chaos.
"We've always had problems, but this year the system just imploded," Mr. Solomon said. "That's the difference between now and other years."
Students and teachers went through eight weeks of such chaos before the Illinois Board of Education finally established a Financial Oversight Panel on Oct. 20 to monitor the district's finances. In the middle of the uproar, the district and the state uncovered more than $2 million in extra money that had been lost to accounting errors, including retirement allocations that were entered twice in the district records.
Almost everyone agrees that aside from the poverty and dislocation in the community, there have been two main problems in the district.
One is the level of financing. The state provides $51 million of the district's $67 million education budget, bringing total per capita spending in the district to $5,775, slightly above the state average. But with so many impoverished students needing extra help and aging, decrepit buildings, few discount the need for more money.
The other is management. Almost everyone familiar with the district agrees it has been horribly mismanaged over the years, with contracts and jobs apportioned to friends or relatives of school board members.
The state oversight promises to address the most glaring management issues. And Joseph A. Spagnolo, the Illinois Superintendent for Education, said the oversight panel would likely request emergency state financing to deal with what he calls "the health and life-safety issues" in the school district.
But he and others say that while the system in East St. Louis finally collapsed this year, the problems differed more in degree than in kind from what has happened over the years in East St. Louis and in other poor school districts, like Jersey City and Paterson, which were taken over by New Jersey.
Indeed, success has always had a different meaning here than in healthier districts.
"The one thing my teen-agers look forward to in the summer is to live, to make it, to be alive," said Diane Sonneman, who runs a tutoring and recreation program through the Griffin Center at a local public housing complex. "When you have kids with that sort of mentality, and you send them to schools that don't expect them to be on time, to do homework, to bring books to class, you're just perpetuating the cycle of failure."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students in East St. Louis, Ill., leaving Lansdowne Junior High School, one of the city's troubled schools where students in a math class spend the class time amid shouting students in the gym because they have no teacher. The state has taken over the schools because of financial difficulties. (Bill Stover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SAVAGE INEQUALITIES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST ST LOUIS (ILL); ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; FINANCES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CLASS RANKING (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FAST FOOD (71%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; KOZOL, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



734 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Migration Is Altering East Timor

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 29

 BODY:
The exiled leader of an independence movement in East Timor, Jose Ramos-Horta, said on Friday that growing numbers of non-Timorese migrants were changing the character of the territory, which Indonesia annexed by force in 1975.
Mr. Ramos-Horta, the civilian face of the guerrilla movement Fretilin, which continues to wage a low-level war in East Timor, said that as many as 1,000 Indonesians from other islands in the huge archipelago are arriving each week. He said that the numbers are larger than at any time in the past. 
 "They have taken over the best land, the best jobs, even the small shops in the streets," Mr. Ramos-Horta said in an interview here, where he has been lobbying for nearly two decades from his base in Europe.
"In public service jobs only 3 out of 10 is Timorese. In the streets, selling in the markets, the average we estimate is one Timorese for nine Indonesians."
Indonesian officials say that the influx of settlers in East Timor is not part of the controlled program of "transmigration," which moves people from the most populated islands to less dense ones. They say that since East Timor was opened in 1989 to other Indonesians, people have flocked there for a better life.
Mr. Ramos-Horta said that trade in East Timor's resources -- marble, coffee, sandalwood and oil -- is dominated by non-Timorese.
East Timor, a Portuguese colony that was more or less abandoned by Lisbon after the 1974 revolution, has more than 800,000 people, a mix of indigenous people and descendants of Portuguese migrants and political prisoners banished there as punishment. Timorese still outnumber other Indonesians by at least five to one, Mr. Ramos-Horta said.
"But if the trend continues for the next 10 years, the Timorese will be completely outnumbered," he said.
The status of East Timor is one of several issues being raised by international rights organizations in advance of a visit by President Clinton to the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, for an Asian-Pacific economic meeting beginning on Nov. 14.
Talks between Indonesians and Timorese at several levels have begun to make some headway, but rights groups want to sustain pressure on President Suharto.
"The Indonesians have tried to solve the problem by force and that hasn't worked," said John A. Bresnan, director of the East Asian Institute at Columbia University and the author of "Managing Indonesia." "Now the only solution left is a political one."
East Timor is largely a foreign policy problem for Indonesia, a country of about 200 million people trying to play a more prominent role in international affairs.
Mr. Bresnan said discussions on the future of East Timor were going on through a variety of channels in Indonesia, with the encouragement of the United States, which has urged the Indonesians to reduce their huge military presence in the disputed territory.

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of East Timor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TIMOR-LESTE (99%); INDONESIA (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST TIMOR; INDONESIA; TIMOR-LESTE (99%); INDONESIA (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); TRENDS (73%); LOBBYING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; RAMOS-HORTA, JOSE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



735 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE MIDWEST;
In 2 Bellwether States, Republicans See the Chance to Relive a Landslide

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Michigan Republicans still talk about 1966. George Romney won a third term as Governor, Bob Griffin was elected to the Senate, beating former Gov. G. Mennen Williams, five incumbent Democrats in the House were ousted, and Republicans captured both houses of the state legislature.
"The year the elephants got loose," an old party retainer calls it. 
 This could be that kind of year, local politicians believe, not only here but also in Ohio. And the prospect of a Republican sweep in these neighboring Rust Belt states, noted for their ticket-splitting, watched since the Civil War as bellwethers of Middle America, gives a sense of the dangers facing Democrats across the nation.
The closest major contest in the region, now likely to be decided in the final week, is the race for the United States Senate seat being vacated by Donald W. Riegle Jr., a Michigan Democrat who is retiring. For more than three months now, Representative Bob Carr, a Democrat, and Spencer Abraham, a Republican, have been struggling for dominance, but the polls have consistently shown a virtual dead heat, with first one man, then the other holding an inconclusive lead of three to five percentage points.
Mr. Carr led with 39 percent in the most recent survey, compared with Mr. Abraham's 34 percent. Minor-party candidates drew 13 percent, and 14 percent were undecided. The poll, taken by Michigan State University from Oct. 6 to Oct. 24, covered 1,001 likely voters and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points, meaning that either of the two might actually be ahead.
With 10 campaign days left, the Republican Governors in both states, John Engler of Michigan and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, appear to be coasting to re-election (as do Jim Edgar in Illinois and Tommy G. Thompson in Wisconsin, two other states in the industrial Midwest). Lieut. Gov. Michael DeWine, also a Republican, seems set to take the open Senate seat in Ohio, which Howard M. Metzenbaum, the retiring Democrat, had hoped to hand over to his son-in-law, Joel Hyatt.
Republicans have mounted forceful, well-financed challenges in no less than five House races in both Michigan and Ohio, all in districts now held by Democrats; if they were to win them all, it would give them a quarter of the net gain of 40 seats that they need to control the House for the first time since President Dwight D. Eisenhower's first term.
Some Democrats see last-minute signs that the threat is receding. Tim Hagan, a commissioner in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, said that "this won't be 1966, because toward the bottom of the ticket, our people have finally raised some money and started to shake the baleful effect of the weaker candidates above them." Others take hope from the recent improvement in President Clinton's ratings, his foreign-policy successes and encouraging reports on the economy.
In a year of anti-incumbent fever, Mr. Carr, a lanky 51-year-old, seems a vulnerable figure; he has been on Capitol Hill for nine terms, and he holds one of the classic pork-dispensing slots in Congress -- the chairmanship of the Transportation Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, which doles out dollars for roads and such. But David Rohde, the professor who oversees Michigan State University polls, said that by avoiding "the unremitting negativism" of most campaigns this year, Mr. Carr may have distanced himself from Washington a bit.
Mr. Abraham is ill-placed to campaign as an outsider. A former state party chairman, a onetime aide to former Vice President Dan Quayle and an unsuccessful candidate for chairman of the Republican National Committee last year, he has been portrayed by Mr. Carr as "a doctrinaire, down-the-line, playbook-following Republican back-room operative." In fact, though, Mr. Abraham is much less negative and less ideological than many Republican Senate candidates this year.
Visiting Focus Hope, a highly successful inner-city project to train minority youths for skilled factory jobs, the Republican drew distinctions between what the Federal Government could and could not do to aid such community efforts, rather than suggesting that Washington was useless in fighting poverty.
As the poll figures suggest, neither candidate has really caught on.
A bit stiff in manner to begin with, Mr. Abraham wore a pinstriped suit and black wingtips on his visit to Focus Hope, which immediately set him apart. He has also been hurt by campaign missteps, like an advertisement suggesting that Mr. Carr would receive millions of dollars, not thousands, from his Government pension. Backpedaling, Mr. Abraham pulled the commercial off the air for revision, but he refused in an interview to apply the word "wrong" to the original.
Mr. Carr has spent more time than he would like showing up at campaign events where the promised television cameras or crowds never materialized, most recently at the huge Fairlane Shopping Center in Dearborn on Friday morning.
Nor has the Clinton Administration helped him much. He was enraged, for example, when Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena said that the General Motors Corporation was more interested in sales than in safety, the day before the company's president, John F. Smith Jr., was to be host of a fund-raising event for Mr. Carr. Still angry, Mr. Carr commented today: "As far as I'm concerned, they ought to send him back to wherever he came from. What the hell does he think I am, a potted plant out here?"
Mr. Abraham, an affable 42-year-old, is doing his utmost to hitch his wagon to Governor Engler's star, speaking of the "Engler-Abraham ticket," planning joint campaign events and reminding a visitor that Mr. Engler served as best man in his wedding. Under Mr. Engler, he said, "Michigan has proved you can cut taxes and create jobs at the same time, and I want to take that message to Washington."
The Michigan House seat most likely to fall to the Republicans, experts in the state say, is that of Mr. Carr, which includes the capital city, Lansing.
Challenged two years ago by the wealthy owner of an auto customizing company, Dick Chrysler, Mr. Carr won by fewer than 4,000 votes. Mr. Chrysler is back this year, and in the changed political climate, with no incumbent to contend against, he has taken the lead, though he has been hit with legal troubles lately.
A pair of Democratic incumbents are threatened by candidates who gave them scares in 1992, a Democratic year. They are Dale E. Kildee, who represents a district including the auto-making cities of Flint and Pontiac, and Sander M. Levin, whose district includes parts of suburban Oakland and Macomb counties, which became famous in the 1970's and 1980's as the home of blue-collar Reagan Democrats. Mr. Kildee's opponent is Megan O'Neill, once a member of Mr. Bush's campaign staff. Mr. Levin, who is spending lavishly on television advertisements, unusual for a House member in an urban area, faces John Pappageorge, a retired Army colonel.
In Ohio, Representative David Mann, a Democrat who was surprise winner in 1992, is under assault for having supported the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is widely unpopular among Ohio trade unionists. In his struggle to hold onto his marginal Cincinnati district, Mr. Mann has done everything possible to distance himself from Mr. Clinton, asserting that, like his opponent, Steve Chabot, a former city councilman, the President "chose not to wear the uniform of this country."
Union members in Representative Tom Sawyer's district tried to punish him for backing Nafta by voting for a primary rival, which may have weakened him slightly. He and two other northern Ohio Democrats, Representatives Sherrod Brown of Lorain and Eric D. Fingerhut of Cleveland, all face county prosecutors in a year when crime is one of the Republicans' best issues.
In the end, turnout may decide not only the Carr-Abraham race but the close House contests as well. Robert Teeter, a campaign consultant based in Ann Arbor, Mich., who worked for George Bush in 1992, said his studies indicated that major sweeps like the Republicans' landslide in 1966 or the Democrats' in 1974 usually occurred when one party's bedrock supporters stayed home in large numbers.
Ed Sarpolus of EPIC-MRA, a polling firm in Lansing, said his surveys showed a sharp drop in the last two months in the number of voters planning to turn out on Nov. 8.
Apathy, anger and simple boredom with politics are certainly contributing to the falloff. But relative prosperity may be playing a role, too. The auto industry has finally bounced back, and Michigan's unemployment rate this year may well be lower than the national average for the first time since the 1960's.
Four years ago, Gov. James J. Blanchard, a Democrat, was unexpectedly beaten in his bid for re-election. Only 1.2 million Democratic votes were cast, compared with 1.8 million cast two years later for President Clinton. This year, all the elements of the old Democratic coalition -- mayors, black leaders, teachers, trade unions -- have united in a giant, computer-driven get-out-the-vote operation to try to overcome what Mr. Carr described as "a certain lethargy among those who should be backing us."
Mike Duggan, the deputy Wayne County executive, is running the operation.
"We know who those missing 600,000 people are, and we're going after them," he said. "If this thing works, we'll run three or four points ahead of the polls, and they'll be using our techniques nationally in '96. If not, nobody will ever speak to me again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spencer Abraham, left, and Bob Carr are running head-to-head in the race for the Senate in Michigan. While awaiting the start of their debate in Lansing on Monday, Mr. Carr reacted to a comment by Mr. Abraham. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CARR, BOB; ABRAHAM, SPENCER BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (78%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



736 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton Flies Back Home And Prepares To Campaign

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
President Clinton returned to the White House this morning after a grueling trip to the Middle East and prepared to redirect his energies toward helping Democrats fend off heavy election losses.
Mr. Clinton said he believed that his four-day journey had speeded progress toward a wider peace in the region, and he pledged that the United States would play a central role in working toward that goal with Israel and its neighbors. 
 In an arrival ceremony at the White House, the President made no direct mention of election politics. But a Democratic Senator who accompanied him aboard Air Force One on an overnight flight from Saudi Arabia said Mr. Clinton had talked "quite a lot" about the party's prospects in crucial races around the country. The Senator, Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, described Mr. Clinton as having been "very optimistic" about Democratic chances on Election Day, Nov. 8.
After a foreign trip so close to the elections, however, the President and his advisers were clearly eager to remind voters that he was working on problems at home as well.
"We've made a start in putting government on the side of ordinary Americans," Mr. Clinton declared at the White House ceremony, presenting an argument that he will take on the road next week in a final flurry of politicking on Democrats' behalf. "We must turn from the past and embrace the future."
Beginning with a trip to Pennsylvania on Monday, Mr. Clinton plans to campaign for eight straight days before the elections, a mission that will also take him to Michigan, New York, Iowa, California, Washington State and Minnesota.
Although many of his advisers said there had been more political benefit in his traveling to the Middle East than in staying home, even before the President returned they began calling attention to what they still regard as his strongest card: the health of the economy.
Senior White House officials said they found nothing particularly unusual in their having urged Mr. Clinton to deliver, in the setting of the Emir's palace in Kuwait on Friday, a statement in which he welcomed the news that the American economy continued to grow robustly, and with subdued inflation, in the third quarter. "That's just something you can't pass up, wherever you might be," one senior aide said.
Asked at that session whether distance had left him disengaged from what was going on at home, Mr. Clinton quickly replied, "I haven't been gone long enough to be unplugged."
Israeli officials have expressed disappointment that the boldest move made by Mr. Clinton on his journey -- his visit to Syria, where no American President had traveled for 20 years -- did not do more to advance the peace process in the Middle East. And American officials have conceded that they expected Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad, to make a stronger public gesture of willingness to move toward a peace-for-land deal with Israel.
This morning Mr. Clinton called attention first to the peace treaty between Israel and Jordan that was signed on Wednesday, saying it was "a crucial step on the road to a comprehensive peace." But he also cast the Administration's future in the peace process as critical, since Arabs and Israelis alike would "look to America" for guidance and reassurance.
"The United States," he declared, "will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with those who seek the peace, with those who take risks for peace, with those who stand up for change in the face of terrorists and extremists who seek to destroy the peace by killing the innocent."
On his last stop in the region, late Friday night, Mr. Clinton won support from King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. In a communique, the two leaders called for "widening the circle of peacemakers" in the Middle East, an apparent reference to efforts to persuade Syria and Israel to strike a bargain with each other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SYRIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); WHITE HOUSE (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SYRIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (92%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



737 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Let's Play Two: Expansion and Creation

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Baseball will have a doubleheader Tuesday. That's not Major League Baseball. Major League Baseball, which hasn't played a real game since Aug. 11, will play only one of the games. That's the one in Chicago. The other game, baseball with a small "b," is scheduled for New York.
Against the backdrop of what on that day will be an 82-day-old strike in Major League Baseball, a committee of some of the employers of the striking players will listen in Chicago to presentations from four groups seeking expansion franchises for three areas that aren't in the major leagues. 
 Expansion will be the theme of the baseball -- small "b" -- game in New York, too. Instead of seeking to add new teams to an old structure, the men who step to the plate in this game will seek to add a new structure to an old game. They will be the founders of the United Baseball League (finally, a capital "B," which heretofore Major League Baseball had claimed for itself).
For now, the game in Chicago may turn out to be exactly that, a game. Unless circumstances prompt a change of strategy, Major League Baseball will not vote on expansion until it has settled its labor dispute with its players. That stance would leave Phoenix; St. Petersburg-Tampa, Fla., and northern Virginia waiting, perhaps in vain.
The New York game also could turn out to be only a game -- rival professional sports leagues have not fared well generally -- but the serious nature of the United Baseball League's effort is seen instantly in the presence of Richard Moss.
A lawyer who has been involved, albeit on the players' side, in Major League Baseball longer than all of its owners except Gene Autry, Moss won landmark cases as general counsel of the Players Association, then became one of the best-known player agents.
What the new league announces Tuesday remains to be seen, but it has an impetus that upstart leagues before it in other sports did not have -- a climate in Major League Baseball that has created mistrust and animosity and a desire in the hearts of some players, the number unknown, to start over.
While the United Baseball League offers that new, even if unpredictable, enterprise, Major League Baseball continues to wallow in a morass.
The owners soon will present the players with a new proposal. They have to because the drastic change in economics, the result of the strike, prevents them from implementing the proposal they made last June 14. The new proposal will be less attractive to the players than the existing one because, among other things, it no longer will guarantee them $1 billion of the owners' revenue for their salaries and other costs.
This anticipated scenario would ensue: the owners will negotiate the new proposal to death. Depending on how much of a game the union wants to make of it, prolonging the bargaining to delay the owners' next move as long as possible, the proposal will keep the recently appointed mediator, Bill Usery Jr., earning his $120,000-a-month fee.
Eventually, perhaps in late November or early December, the new proposal will run its course, and so will Usery. At that time, the owners will declare an impasse in negotiations and implement their salary cap.
Management's quick acceptance and embrace of the mediation effort by Usery seemed curious, but the owners may have concluded that Usery would give them the shield they need to get to impasse through ostensible good-faith bargaining. Had they tried the impasse gambit without Usery's involvement, they would have run the risk of being found to have negotiated in bad faith.
Meanwhile, the skirmishes rage. Eleven players file for free agency and are rejected because, the clubs say, they lack sufficient service time. Mike Stanley files for free agency on the grounds that the Yankees exercised the option in his contract prematurely, and the clubs reject him.
Grievance hearings before a baseball arbitrator and impasse hearings before the National Labor Relations Board will take the place of the games missed in the final 52 days of the regular season and the 28 days of the post-season.
Next spring the owners plan to open their Florida and Arizona facilities, hoping to lure players disenchanted with the strike into training camps. But when the dispute is settled and the striking players return to work, the clubs will probably jettison those who went back early. Can't have team unity undermined.
Meanwhile, St. Petersburg-Tampa will spurn the United Baseball League and continue to wait, perhaps in vain, for a Major League Baseball franchise that may not get there in this century.
 
Steinbrenner's Generosity
 Unbelievable. Shocking. A mind-blower.
Those were some of the words used by people on management side upon hearing that George Steinbrenner gave Paul O'Neill a $2.2 million signing bonus, $1.2 million of it payable Dec. 15, as part of a new four-year contract worth $19 million. The words they surely used privately in conversations with one another were not as mild.
If the American League's leading hitter in this year's strike-shortened season has encountered financial difficulties with the loss of $994,535.51 in pay, that signing bonus payment will help him buy more than a few Christmas presents.
"With respect to signing bonuses," club lawyers wrote in a memo to their clients less than two weeks ago, "clubs are free to make decisions in their own individual interest. Clubs should keep in mind the payment of the bonus amounts to a decision by the club to help fund the continuing players strike. Moreover you should be aware employers are generally entitled to avoid taking action that amounts to funding of a strike against themselves."
But Steinbrenner long has been a benevolent chap, sending needy kids to college, buying lights for baseball fields and giving money to amateur athletes for training. Funding a players' strike fits right in.
 
They Hardly Knew Ye
 Free agents can begin signing with anyone today, but four free agents would have to re-sign with their last teams to play for them for the first time.
Norm Charlton, whom Philadelphia acquired from Seattle last winter, was hurt all season and didn't play for the Phillies. The other three were traded or sold during the strike -- Dave Winfield from Minnesota to Cleveland, Scott Bankhead from Boston to the Yankees and Paul Gibson from the Yankees to Milwaukee.
 
Just Another M.V.P.
 When Houston's Jeff Bagwell learned last week that he had been named the National League most valuable player, he was attending his team's Fall Frolic at the Pine Valley Golf Club in New Jersey, an annual gathering of present and former members of the Astros hosted by the team's former owner, John McMullen.
Returning from the telephone call that informed him of his award, Bagwell quickly had it put in perspective.
"He came in," McMullen said, "and we said, 'That's O.K., Jeff, but Yogi has three and Joe has two. Yours is only the sixth here.' "
Yogi Berra, a former Astros coach and a friend of McMullen, and Joe Morgan, a former second baseman with Houston, were among the other guests.
Bagwell is one of McMullen's legacies in Houston. The Astros' acquisition of him for relief pitcher Larry Andersen in 1990 is one of the great trades ever.
"The Red Sox had that other kid they thought was going to be better at third," McMullen said, referring to Scott Cooper. "Bagwell was the one they offered and I said take him. My theory is I trade the old guys for young guys. In Houston they castrated me for trading a veteran pitcher for an untried kid. The trade was criticized. People forget that."
No one is critical now.
 
A Game 7 Highlight Reel
 Tonight could have been the seventh game of the World Series. Maybe it would have produced the kind of Game 7 like in 1991, when Jack Morris pitched 10 shutout innings for Minnesota; or in 1962, when Willie McCovey's line drive was caught by Bobby Richardson, or in 1960, when Bill Mazeroski hit the decisive home run.
Many people believe the sixth game of the 1975 World Series, which Carlton Fisk won for Boston with a 12th-inning home run, was the greatest Series game ever. Others opt for the seventh game in 1960, when Mazeroski's ninth-inning shot cleared the left-field fence at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh as the Yankees' Yogi Berra watched helplessly.
Berra, who watched the Fisk game on television, was asked his opinion.
"It was exciting when Fisk hit the home run," Berra said, "but it wasn't too exciting with that other guy hitting the home run against us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: It's frightening this Halloween that there was no satisfactory conclusion to the baseball season. So Dave Gallagher and his son Evan expressed their feelings with this display outside their home in Millstone, N.J. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED BASEBALL LEAGUE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (95%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED BASEBALL LEAGUE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (54%); TAMPA, FL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (99%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); STRIKES (76%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BILL USERY JR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



738 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Governor Cuomo, Beyond a Doubt

 BODY:
Mario Cuomo seems always to have been a creature of expectations -- his own and those that others have conferred upon him. Ever since his incandescent speech to the 1984 Democratic National Convention, people have spoken of him in terms of what "could be" and, later, of what "might have been." He might have been President of the United States. He surely could have been a justice of the Supreme Court. Although it is not too late for the Court, there seems only one certain way for him to claim an exalted place in the history books. That is to have a memorably successful fourth term.
This newspaper thinks he can do that. We not only recommend his re-election; we urge it as essential to New York's progress. We are mindful of his shortcomings and we are sometimes annoyed by the gap between the Cuomo rhetoric and the Cuomo reality. It is also true that New York has lagged behind a nationwide economic recovery. We nevertheless believe that Mr. Cuomo towers above his opponents. His intellect is formidable, his values sound, his understanding of the state's complex needs and opportunities unmatched. 
 In addition to Mr. Cuomo's clear advantage in leadership capacity, there is another overarching reason for a fourth term. This election is as much about the future of the city as it is about the state as a whole. As Mayor Rudolph Giuliani observed in explaining his decision to endorse Mr. Cuomo over a fellow Republican, George Pataki, the Governor is certain to be far more sympathetic to the city's huge burdens than Mr. Pataki or the Independence Fusion Party candidate, B. Thomas Golisano.
Mr. Pataki is no slouch. He is the first plausible, serious Republican contender since Lewis Lehrman, the man Mr. Cuomo beat in his first gubernatorial race in 1982. He and Mr. Golisano, a self-made businessman, both believe that New York suffers from an inefficient government. Their diagnosis of the state's ills contains a lot of uncomfortable truths, some of which Mr. Cuomo concedes.
Mr. Pataki's prescriptions, however, are simplistic and alarmingly indifferent to the needs of the cities, especially New York. Mr. Cuomo puts it bluntly and Mr. Giuliani agrees: "If you cut $7 billion out of the state budget, you kill the city." Mr. Pataki is a member of that large and growing army of manipulative politicians wheedling votes with the seductive message that the only things standing between us and happiness are criminals and high taxes. Ergo: fry the criminals, lower the taxes.
Even if this page could ignore Mr. Pataki's relentless campaign for the death penalty -- something Mr. Cuomo has courageously opposed at considerable political cost -- it cannot buy his economic program. He proposes to cut taxes by 25 percent over four years and pay for those cuts through what he confidently describes as normal revenue growth and painless belt-tightening in programs like welfare and Medicaid.
Most economists, not to mention Mr. Giuliani, think this is poppycock. What Mr. Pataki proposes will not really cut the overall tax burden. It will shift the cost of essential services to cities and counties and require them to levy new taxes to pay for them. Mr. Giuliani recognized the trickery of the Pataki plan, and so should every responsible voter.
Mr. Pataki's statewide experience is limited and that raises the question of how he got where he is. The answer is not pleasant. He is the political creation of Senator Alfonse D'Amato. The Senator stage-managed his nomination, raised his campaign funds and provided his staff. Mr. D'Amato has gone into hiding now because he was dragging his protege down in the polls. But knowledgeable Republicans know that a vote for Mr. Pataki is a vote for the D'Amato machine. That is why moderate Republicans like State Senator Ralph Marino are keeping Mr. Pataki at arm's length. He is not, to use the Mayor's cutting phrase, "his own man."
As all three candidates have acknowledged, New Yorkers are overtaxed and overregulated. Despite Mr. Cuomo's largely uncelebrated efforts to ease the tax burden and cut red tape, New York's combined state and local tax burden is the nation's heaviest after Alaska. The government bureaucracy is shamefully bloated. New businesses do not want to come here and a lot of old businesses want to leave. The economic turnaround that saw the nation as a whole gain 5.5 million jobs also saw New York lose jobs.
Mr. Pataki's fiscal shell game is not the answer to these problems. Still, there is a huge task ahead and what that task will require is total commitment. For Mr. Cuomo, that means the days of playing Hamlet on the Hudson must end. He must swear off his reflexive tendency to attribute New York's ills to an obdurate State Senate, a stubborn economy, Reaganomics, crack and AIDS and heaven only knows what else. He will have to complain less and work harder at the nitty-gritty of government if he seriously wishes to be remembered as being as good at governing as he is at campaigning.
This contest has already been a humbling experience for Mr. Cuomo. At the very least it should have taught him that what New Yorkers really want -- indeed desperately need -- are results. That involves a level of risk-taking that Mario Cuomo has not so far achieved but which we firmly believe he is capable of reaching if he can muster the legislative concentration and stamina to match his intelligence and compassion.
This brings us to the unique resource that Mr. Cuomo represents for New York and the nation. His critics have tried to depict him as liberalism's last buffalo. Indeed, Mr. Cuomo's skills as a communicator make him an easy target when his achievements fail to live up to the promise of his rhetoric. But the fact is that Mr. Cuomo's compassion, his good heart and hard head, his rootedness in our forebears' struggle against poverty and ignorance are values that government needs.
New York voters have a unique opportunity to weld Mr. Cuomo's lofty ambitions to practical politics. His re-election will create a powerful Cuomo-Giuliani axis that will strengthen government in New York City and Albany. These two men have made a public compact to work together. Given the chance, they can create a mold-breaking bipartisanship that invigorates New York while it helps American politics through a poisonous period.
As a matter of practicality, philosophy and, yes, passion for good government, Mario Cuomo deserves re-election. He is the class of the field.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); TAX LAW (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



739 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The Final Curtain?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
You know Broadway is dead as a showcase for American drama when a) there are no new plays running there; b) Neil Simon announces he would rather be in Greenwich Village; c) New York's Attorney General is closing in on its box offices, or d) the theater industry's leaders are fighting in public, like passengers on the Titanic shoving each other out of the lifeboats.
The answer is, e) all of the above. 
 Right now, Broadway is down to two plays -- the sadly inexorable result of production costs so high that only musical spectacles with huge audiences can afford them. Facing this reality, Mr. Simon, the street's most commercially successful writer for 30 years, is defecting with his newest comedy to a small theater Off Broadway. Attorney General G. Oliver Koppell, meanwhile, plans to finish out his term with a bang: his full-speed-ahead ticket-scalping investigation may soon explain why the public can never buy good seats for the few shows that are running. And Emanuel Azenberg, Mr. Simon's producer, told a Times reporter he had declared "war" on Gerald Schoenfeld of the Shubert Organization, the all-powerful Broadway landlord.
Should Mr. Simon put all these doings in a farce, he might have his biggest hit since "The Odd Couple."
But that's precisely the problem. It is no longer possible to have a cat-or-chandelier-free hit on Broadway -- a non-musical play that makes a profit for its investors -- because the investment cannot be recouped, no matter how astronomic the ticket price. Even "Angels in America," the most acclaimed drama of the last decade, will be in the red when it closes early next year, according to one of its producers, despite a 20-month Broadway run that "Long Day's Journey Into Night" would have envied.
Only lunatics would produce plays on a street where "Angels" fears to tread. Which is not to say that good plays disappear: When Mr. Simon goes Off Broadway, he'll find Edward Albee, Sam Shepard and Terrence McNally among his neighbors. But some of the most beautiful theaters in the world -- all of them perfect for intimate dramas by such writers -- are on the brink of permanent obsolescence. No sooner has the long-defunct 42d Street reached the brink of redevelopment -- Disney's renovation of the New Amsterdam Theater should start this spring -- than the other theatrical blocks just to its north are going dark.
This is both an urban and cultural crisis. Yet the Broadway establishment's response is to deny that anything is wrong. Mr. Schoenfeld told Donald McNeil of The Times "a lot of producers" are bringing plays to Broadway, though he could only come up with a tiny list of mostly British imports.
In private, almost any major player in the theater will say the truth: Not only has the curtain fallen on the Broadway play, but nothing short of a complete overhaul of Broadway business practices from ground zero will bring it back. Mr. Azenberg unfairly blamed Mr. Schoenfeld for the entire mess, when in truth inefficient labor practices, greedy big-name talent and rising advertising costs are as much a part of the problem as high-handed management.
With the old-timers either in denial or combat, only newcomers can break the deadlock. One hopeful sign is a recent move by Rocco Landesman, the one Broadway theater operator under 70 and the only one who flatly concedes, "Unless we do something, there won't be a dramatic theater on Broadway."
Shortly after Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen and Steven Spielberg announced their new Hollywood studio, Mr. Landesman, eyeing a theatrical link, phoned to set up a meeting. Even before he did, the Katzenberg trio, theater fans all, had talked seriously about adding theater to their studio's announced list of activities. What finally stopped them was in part a fatalism about Broadway economics, as experienced by Mr. Geffen when he co-produced with the Shuberts in the 1980's and by Mr. Katzenberg with Disney's "Beauty and the Beast."
But Mr. Geffen has been a vocal Landesman enthusiast since they worked together on "M. Butterfly," a rare dramatic hit of recent Broadway vintage. Should the persistent Mr. Landesman enlist the new studio's tough businessmen in his ambitions, he might not only light up some dark marquees but light a fire under a Broadway establishment that dozes and bickers even as its quarter-century-long epic of decline hurtles to its tragic end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES THEATER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WRITERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; LANDESMAN, ROCCO; KATZENBERG, JEFFREY; GEFFEN, DAVID; SPIELBERG, STEVEN STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); DAVID GEFFEN (58%); FRANK RICH (56%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



740 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2513 words

HEADLINE: Love the House -- But Can We Afford It?

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
BUYING a house concentrates the mind, and not least on matters of money. In the current housing market, the experience of recession appears to have led buyers into more conservative financial planning than their predecessors practiced a decade ago.
The recession retarded the pace of sales and frustrated the ability of many people to make long-term decisions on a house or a community or both. Slower sales and lower prices made it difficult -- and for many still do make it difficult -- to recover the cash applied to one purchase to make another. It even affected the attitudes of those who had never bought. 
 "People find they're stuck in their first house and that's scary to people who are in the market," said Lisa Rosenthal, who in May of last year moved into a house that she and her husband, David, bought in Montclair, N.J. "If you can't turn it over, you figure, 'Why bother?' "
But the Rosenthals, in their mid-30's, are among those who decided they were at a stage in life when it was necessary to bother about long-term stability. They skipped the starter-house phase -- in which a first-time buyer purchases a house with the intention of holding it only a few years before moving up to something bigger and better -- and bought the house in which they intend to stay indefinitely. They had been living for several years as renters in Little Neck, Queens.
They have joined the broad class of people bound by the invisible cord of concern over housing costs. What will it cost to own a house? Or, perhaps more to the point, how much housing cost is affordable?
Conversations with recent buyers suggest that many have thought deeply about it. Most seem to have tried to make conservative decisions about affordability. Buyers at the lower end of the income scale have in general stretched to make down payments and taken advantage of recent programs that make it possible for them to get mortgages with high loan-to-value ratios, sometimes with as little as 3 percent down.
But middle- to upper-middle-income buyers seem to be striving, often successfully, to hold down their housing debt as a percentage of their gross household income.
At a 9 percent interest rate, every additional $10,000 borrowed on a 30-year loan makes a difference of $80.47 a month, or $965.64 a year, in out-of-pocket (pre-tax-deduction) debt-payment costs. Many buyers try to work out their anticipated costs on an annual basis. The exercise serves to underscore the diversity of choice, financial and otherwise, available in the metropolitan area. They can save on commutation, but spend for what they perceive to be better schools. They can hold off on needed home improvements or go forward with them, at varying levels of thoroughness. They can buy more space or less, with older equipment and appliances or newer ones. And they can relate these costs to their annual income.
In the end, it develops that first-time buyers, the most likely to make minimum down payments and take the maximum loan the lender will grant, will be largely influenced by the debt-to-income ratios acceptable to mortgage lenders. On the second purchase, buyers have more leeway.
Lenders define housing costs as mortgage debt plus taxes and insurance, which for buyers will normally range between 28 percent and 33 percent of gross family income.
USUALLY, for loans up to $203,000, lenders use the debt-to-income guidelines set by the secondary mortgage market -- the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). These agencies buy loans up to that amount from banks or mortgage-servicing companies, which originate the loans, and then package them with other mortgages for resale in the securities markets.
The standard for these "conforming" loans is that with a 20 percent down payment, housing debt should not exceed 28 percent of household income (and total debt should not exceed 36 percent). With a larger down payment, and other "compensating factors" such as the borrower's savings, length of employment and credit record, the secondary market may accept a higher debt-to-income ratio. Various lenders have different programs adapted to these standards. Recent programs developed in the secondary market let first-time buyers and buyers in central cities have debt-to-income ratios of 33 percent to 38 percent, purchasing houses with low down payments.
Conforming loans accounted for about 64 percent of all home mortgage loans originated in the metropolitan area last year, according to DRI/McGraw Hill, the Lexington, Mass., economic research arm of McGraw-Hill Inc.
Despite the allowable ratios, many recent buyers, on average older than their predecessors of 10 years ago, seem eager to stay below lenders' limits. They appear to sales brokers to be more cautious and planning-minded that their predecessors.
"There's a higher proportion of trade-up buying these days than in the 80's and the trade-up buyers aren't leveraging as much with debt," said Susan Goldy, broker at ERA Susan Goldy & Company Realtors in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
"The bulk of our buyers are buying well below their maximum buying power -- the exception being the lowest end of the market, where buyers are squeezing," said Marcia S. Levy, manager of the Montclair office of Burgdorff Realtors. "Very often in two-income families they are choosing to base the housing purchase on just one income."
"It used to be that the first house that people bought in this area was a co-op, and then they sold and bought a house," said Liz Lindsey, owner of Lindsey Real Estate in Mount Vernon, N.Y. "But because the co-op market has been on its side in the last five years, people will now rent and save money and skip over the co-op process and buy the house they are planning to stay in longer. They don't necessarily stay as long as they think they will, because their work takes them away."
And Ralph Artigliere, assistant vice president at Chemical Residential Mortgage Corporation in northern New Jersey, said that buyers were more worried than they were 10 years ago about how long their jobs will last. "We had a lot more aggressive buyers in the 80's than we have today," he said.
The median price of a resale house in the New York metropolitan area was $173,200 last year, according to the National Association of Realtors. Holding housing costs to 28 percent of gross income, a household earning $66,400 a year could afford the median-priced house, from the lender's standpoint. The income figure assumes a 20 percent down payment and a mortgage-interest rate of 9 percent for 30 years. It also assumes taxes of $4,000 a year and insurance costs of $1,200 a year. The taxes and the total interest payment on the mortgage are tax deductible; the amount of savings to the owner depends on the household's tax bracket.
These days buyers with strong credit records who can make a 20 percent down payment probably could find a loan with a ratio as high 40 percent, said Helene Wald, loan director at H-R Loan Representatives Inc. in Manhattan. "Some banks have gotten less conservative on the ratios," she said.
But cautious buyers, unsure of future income, don't necessarily take the highest-ratio loans. From their standpoint, "housing" expenses also imply the related costs of commutation, heating and utilities, car insurance, repair and maintenance obligations, grounds maintenance, possible day-care expenses and longer-term building-improvement requirements.
Some of these costs are related to location as much as to the house itself, and personal preferences will influence the level of spending. The price of the house, and the amount of debt accepted, obviously bear on the buyer's ability to handle other house-related costs.
Interviews with recent buyers of houses costing somewhat more than the $173,200 areawide median confirm that conservative attitude. They also shed light on how the diversity of local conditions and personal values, as well as income, affect the cost of home ownership.
In Mount Vernon, in lower Westchester County, for example, Philip C. Zach and his wife, Joanne, bought a spacious house on Pondfield Parkway in the higher-priced Auburn Manor section of the mixed-income city. They paid $445,000, using the proceeds from the $310,000 sale of a house in the Randall Manor section of Staten Island.
Mr. Zach, an agent with Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company in Manhattan, said that if they had bought in the more exclusive village of Bronxville less than half a mile away he would have paid perhaps double for a comparable house. "Based on family income, we underbought," Mrs. Zach said. "We found a lovely house that meets our needs, and now we have more disposable income to spend on other things."
Without much difficulty, they calculated the total annual expense of ownership (before tax deductions for mortgage interest and property tax) at around $36,000. They broke it down as follows: $26,000 for debt service and taxes; $1,400 for Mr. Zach's commuting by train to Manhattan; $2,200 for heating oil; $1,500 for electricity; $1,500 for a gas-heating system that handles an addition to the 3,500-square-foot house, built 12 years ago; $1,500 for landscaping and grounds maintenance (the plot is 100 by 140 feet) and $2,200 to insure their one car.
They report that they were fortunate in the mortgage market, managing to lock in a mortgage rate of under 7 percent on a 30-year loan just before rates rose last year.
Besides mortgage terms, another key variable in housing expenses is local taxes. In general they tend to be higher in Westchester and on Long Island than they are in New Jersey, brokers say, and lower in New York City with its unusually large commercial tax base. But the view from up close -- a particular buyer's bill -- often presents a picture different from the generalizaion.
THE Zachs' total tax bill at present, for instance, is $8,690 a year. That produces an effective tax rate of 1.9 percent. The effective rate is the tax bill divided by the value of the house. Their bill shows that $4,600 of the total pays for schools. The couple plans to adopt children and send them to a public elementary school.
In their former house on Staten Island, the property taxes they paid to New York City were only $1,500 a year. But though their taxes are higher in Mount Vernon, they no longer pay a New York City income tax, but rather a payroll tax, since Mr. Zach's job is in the city. The decline in city taxes has offset the increase in property tax.
In the end, the Zachs calculate that they spend about half the amount on housing costs, as a percentage of their income, that lenders prescribe as maximum, not an unusual situation for well-to-do buyers who refrain from stretching into more exclusively high-income communities.
"My observation is that those who trade up nowadays are looking for space, not for glitz," said Lynn Graham, a sales associate at the Stanton Company in Montclair, N.J., where local taxes on a $200,000 house are about $2,000 a year higher than they are in neighboring communities, largely because the community spends more on schools. "Even people in high-bonus jobs are probably buying less than they can afford."
But that is not likely to be the case for first-time buyers, who are the stretchers on debt. A case in point is that of Jesus Ramos, 32, and his wife Donna Perez-Ramos, 31, who were renters in the South Bronx. Mr. Ramos is a social worker and Ms. Perez-Ramos is in charge of a traders' support group at CS First Boston in Manhattan. They have two boys, 7 and 3.
Ms. Perez-Ramos had a good year at CS First Boston last year, with a year-end bonus that enabled the couple to spend more for their first house than they expected when they started looking last year. They wound up getting a traditional 1925 house on tree-lined North Fulton Avenue in Mount Vernon for $220,000 last May.
"WE had been planning to put only 5 percent down but it turned out we could put down 10 percent," said Ms. Perez-Ramos. "That was the key."
She still calculates that they spend 28 percent of their gross income for housing costs, but they had the income to deal with an unexpected surprise: After-school day care for children was not available beyond 4 P.M. at the elementary school they had planned for their 7-year-old son. So he is back at his old parochial school in the Bronx at an unanticipated tuition cost of $110 a month. He is dropped off at school and his younger brother is dropped off at his grandmother's house for day care every weekday morning by Mr. Ramos on his way to work.
"I've learned to be more planful, less impulsive in spending," said Ms. Perez-Ramos, who works unusually long hours at her job while her husband, with more regular hours, delivers and picks up the children from school and at a grandmother's house.
At a higher level of housing expense, Lia and David Rosenthal, who bought in Montclair, represent attitudes similar to the Ramoses. Mr. Rosenthal, 33, owns a database software company called Comsult, based in Montclair. Mrs. Rosenthal is a freelance writer of corporate training programs. They had their first child, a girl, just 10 days ago.
They bought a four-and-a-half-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bath 1928 house on a 70- by 152-foot lot on Montclair Avenue last spring at a price they declined to disclose. Mrs. Rosenthal had worked for eight years before they bought, and Mr. Rosenthal for 11, so they were able to save and make a substantial down payment on a house they intend to remain in indefinitely.
One priority for the Rosenthals was Montclair's highly regarded school system. It accounts for about half of their local tax bill in a town in which buyers who spend, for example, $250,000 for a house will pay about $7,500 a year in taxes.
"What we have done is skipped over the starter house and jumped to the second house," Mrs. Rosenthal said. Over time the couple expect to spend a great deal on home improvements. "There's a lot of work to do here," Mrs. Rosenthal said.
But not nearly as much as Vincent Amesse, a photographer, and his wife, Ellyn, faced when they bought a five-room 1940's ranch house last year on Manor Court in the exclusive Lighthouse Hill section of Staten Island. They built an entire second floor on the house, which they bought for $250,000, paying largely for the land value rather than the existing structure.
It is another approach to home buying, possible when the residence on the land is not of a quality that the value of the land would justify. The buyer usually expects that the cost of the improvement ultimately will be recoverable in a sale, making the project worthy as an investment.
But as is normally the case in home buying and home improvements, the search for personal satisfaction, not cold financial calculation, played the central role.
"It's a quiet street, and a beautiful location," Mrs. Amesse said. "We have almost wiped out our savings, but it's for something we can enjoy every day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEFORE: Last year Vincent Amesse, a photographer, and his wife, Ellyn, bought this 1940's ranch house on Lighthouse Hill in Staten Island. DURING: They paid $250,000 for the five-room house, and then began to add a second story across the entire building. AFTER: When they were finished, they had the space they needed in a desirable residential location. (pg. 10); Jesus Ramos and his wife, Donna Perez-Ramos, with their children in the yard of their first house, bought for $220,000, in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Philip C. Zach and his wife, Joanne, outside the house they bought for $445,000 in Mount Vernon using the proceeds from the $310,000 sale of their house on Staten Island. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994



741 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Mortgage Outreach Efforts

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS 

 BODY:
EVERY now and then the mortgage lending community rolls out the impressive dollar amounts it intends to set aside to help inner-city, immigrant and minority families buy homes.
Until recently, however, these families had good reason to be cynical. Despite the fanfare, they were still being asked to demonstrate the kind of employment and borrowing history that bore little resemblance to the way many really lived their lives. 
 But the gap between promise and reality may be over. An informal sampling of mortgage brokers and lenders in the New York metropolitan area shows increasing evidence of a new attempt to reach those who were formerly unacceptable, an attempt that seems not only genuine but also wide in scope.
The Chemical Bank released figures in June, for example, showing that minority loans accounted for 20.1 percent of all home purchasing borrowing in 1993, up from 16.1 percent in 1992. Further, loan rejection rates among Asian, black and Hispanic applicants had been cut in half. And a group of Federal regulators, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, reported last week that the number of home mortgages issued to blacks in the New York metropolitan area soared 44.8 percent in 1993 from the year before. Loans to Asian-American and Hispanic applicants increased by 19.9 percent, roughly the same rate as loans to whites.
It's happening for several reasons. First, the volume of business from existing homeowners eager to refinance -- a market that kept lenders afloat in the early 90's -- is drying up now that interest rates are rising. Thus bankers have been forced to look elsewhere for customers.
As they did so, they became increasingly aware that the complexion of America was changing. They saw that "they could no longer impose middle-class life style judgments on people with a very different culture," said Cheryl Hoffman, senior vice president of risk management at Arbor National Mortgage of Uniondale, L.I.
Further, secondary market investors like the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac -- which buy mortgages from the local lenders and thus set lending standards for the industry -- also discovered that their former practices disqualified a growing segment of the home-buying public. So they have been gradually changing their guidelines, too, encouraging even more banks to do so.
Those changes in lending policy now include:
* Permitting people with seasonal employment, like construction, to qualify provided their employment reoccurs on a regular basis.
* No longer considering job-hopping as a sign of instability.
* No longer viewing credit problems, such as overdue loan payments, as a reason for automatic rejection, provided the borrower can provide a verifiable excuse like a prolonged illness.
* No longer requiring a cash amount equal to two months of future mortgage payments at the closing.
* Allowing a down payment or closing costs to be provided by one of the lending-and-savings clubs popular among West Indian and Asian immigrants, rather than requiring personal assets to cover these needs.
* Lending on formerly disqualified homes such as those in commercial neighborhoods and on properties offering unorthodox living arrangements, like homes with multigenerational setups and apartments that require walking through one to reach the other
* Allowing a mortgage to be combined with a rehabilitation loan so that someone willing to buy, say, a home without a functioning heating system can get money to immediately install that heat.
Yet another catalyst for change has been pressure from Federal and state government regulators. Karen Hill, executive director of the Fair Housing Interfaith Office in Yonkers, finds these officials increasingly requiring lenders to show they are meeting the needs of inner-city and minority communities as a trade-off, say, for approving a bank merger.
This, she noted, is why recently merged banks are often proving to be particularly friendly toward the nonconventional borrower.
Some lenders have become more willing to keep some of these loans in their own portfolios, allowing for even greater flexibility. Chemical, for example, uses this method to extend the debt-to-income ratio of otherwise qualified borrowers above the industry limit of 38 percent, said Wesley Wainwright, a senior vice president at Chemical.
Selling the loan to an agency that puts it into a pool of loans for resale means that the loan must satisfy the agency's regulations. By keeping the loan for its own portfolio, Mr. Wainwright said, Chemical can more readily qualify someone without a traditional credit history but with a solid record of paying utility bills or rent on time.
Other lenders use private secondary market investor pools for similar purposes. Arbor, for example, has thus been able to introduce a loan called Home Flex, which allows people with plenty of cash but poor credit or irregular income to buy a home.
In the last year about 200 borrowers have taken advantage of the program. It requires a down payment of 30 percent or more, depending on circumstances, though it does carry an interest rate that is two percentage points higher than the rate paid by traditional borrowers.
How can a borrower find out about these offers? Ms. Hill suggested starting by attending one of the many housing fairs and seminars for inner-city home buyers that lenders are now sponsoring. They are regularly announced in the local press and with posters and flyers.
It is at those fairs that potential borrowers can meet the lenders most eager to reach out to this newer market. In the New York metropolitan area they include the Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, the Bank of New York, Chase Manhattan, Citibank, the Dime Savings Bank and the Republic National Bank.
For a complete listing call the New York Mortgage Coalition at (212) 493-7419. The coalition is a year-old organization that fosters alternative lending standards. And it will also refer callers to a community group in their own neighborhoods that can provide free house-buying counseling.
"We had found that not having basic information was a barrier in itself," said Bonnie O'Donnell, director of consumer affairs at Fannie Mae, which is co-sponsoring some of the initiatives. "We're also trying to reach people who don't speak English and who have never had a home owner in their family."
Another entry point might be through a church, trade, ethnic or professional group. Prudential Home Mortgage of St. Louis, for example, is offering special deals to members of certain minority organizations. The Urban League has become equally active as a home-buying counselor, noted Ms. Hill.
Ms. Hill also recommended contacting a lower-income housing or home-buying counseling agency, such as her own. Approaching a lender with this sort of an advocate in tow, she said, helps a lot. But care should always be taken to make sure that there are no hidden additional fees for the counseling service.
The nontraditional borrower may also find a warmer welcome among mortgage brokers who never courted these clients before, either. For example, Skyscraper Mortgage, which has offices throughout the New York area, hired a minority loan specialist in September -- yet another harbinger of change.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (85%); FNM (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%); ARBOR NATIONAL MORTGAGE INC (53%); FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; URBAN AREAS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994



742 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: State Report;
Rent Regulation From 1943 to '93

 BODY:
On Nov. 1, 1943, the Federal Office of Price Administration issued regulations freezing New York City rents at their March 1, 1943, levels. There have been rent rules ever since, and their first half century is the subject of "Rent Regulation After 50 Years," a report recently issued by the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal.
The report, an overview of one of the most hotly debated public policy issues in New York, provides detailed statistical information on New York's regulatory system, which affects 2.5 million tenants in more than 1 million privately owned housing accommodations in New York City and in municipalities in Nassau, Westchester, Rockland and several upstate counties. 
 The publication, more than 300 pages, includes a history of rent regulation, an overview of the housing market with a focus on rent-stabilized and rent-controlled housing stock and a glossary of rent terms.
The report's statistics for 1992, the latest available, show that there were 855,923 registered rent-stabilized apartments in New York City, half of the city's occupied rental units. The report also contains a list of buildings in New York City and Westchester, Nassau and Rockland Counties with rent-regulated units.
It may be obtained free by writing to Rent Publication, Office of Public Information, Division of Housing and Community Renewal, One Fordham Plaza, Bronx, N.Y. 10458.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL DIVISION (NYS) NEW YORK STATE DIV (90%); HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (71%); PRICE ADMINISTRATION (55%); FEDERAL OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL DIVISION (NYS) HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (71%); PRICE ADMINISTRATION (55%); FEDERAL OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1994



743 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 39; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: ART;
The Cone Sisters: Shoppers or Connoisseurs?

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
FOR ANYONE INTERESTED IN experiencing the punch and variety of avant-garde European art, the city of Baltimore was surely not the place to be during the first decades of this century. Or was it?
 In 1905, a city native, Etta Cone, went with her friend Gertrude Stein -- another Baltimorean, by adoption -- to Picasso's Paris studio and, on impulse, bought an etching. It was the first purchase of what turned out to be a vast, decades-long shopping spree. By the time Etta bought her last Picasso 44 years later, she and her older sister, Claribel, had filled their Baltimore apartment with some 3,000 art objects, among which were now-legendary masterpieces of 20th-century art, including Matisse's "Blue Nude" (1907), Gauguin's "Woman With a Mango" (1892) and Cezanne's drop-dead "Mont Sainte-Victoire Seen From the Bibemus Quarry" (circa 1897). 
The sisters bequeathed their collection to the Baltimore Museum of Art (on the condition, Claribel stipulated in her will, that "the spirit of appreciation of modern art in Baltimore becomes improved"). With the museum's recent inauguration of a new wing dedicated to 20th-century postwar art, the adjoining Cone Galleries have been refurbished and reorganized.
 The bumperlike wooden platforms that ran under the paintings to prevent viewer encroachment have been replaced by low metal railings, a change that helps open up the galleries visually. More important, the once crowded display of Matisse paintings, in which the great, the good and the indifferent hung side by side, has been slimmed down to a smaller number of top-of-the-line works, letting the collection put its very best foot forward. The only hold-over problem is the continued use on the Matisses of modern recessed box frames, an unfortunate choice, as the museum is in possession of many of the original frames.
 The carefully edited hanging not only affords a chance to review the work itself, much of which has been on the road in the recent Matisse retrospective, but to reconsider the Cones' accomplishment. Was their collecting simply the leisure activity of a pair of Yankees blessed with excess capital and a yen for cultural credentials, as it has sometimes been portrayed? Or was it the result of truly adventurous eyes bringing back to America art it had barely sampled up to that time? A definitive answer is impossible to give, but both factors played a part.
 "Dr. Claribel & Miss Etta," a 1985 biography of the Cones written by Brenda Richardson, the Baltimore museum's curator of modern painting and sculpture, remains the primary source of information about their lives. It tells a classic American story of a self-made economic aristocracy. The sisters' father, Herman Cone, immigrated to America from Germany in 1846, and peddled dry goods throughout the South before opening a grocery store in Tennessee. After the business grew into a lucrative export company, he moved to Baltimore. Claribel (1864-1929) and Etta (1870-1949) were born there. Neither married. Claribel became a gynecologist. Etta took charge of managing the household.
 Although very different as personalities -- Claribel was the more severe and independent, Etta the more garrulous and sociable -- they spent much of their time together and made several trips to Europe. In Paris, they often visited Gertrude Stein, who as a young woman had lived in Baltimore after the death of her parents in California in 1892.
 Ms. Richardson's book devotes a considerable amount of speculation to the degree of intimacy between Etta Cone and Gertrude Stein, concluding that they were very likely lovers at some point. Of greater interest in understanding the sisters as collectors, however, is Stein's own slightly fictionalized psychological portrait of them, written between 1908 and 1912 and titled "Two Women." In a series of notes jotted down while composing the essay, Stein reminds herself to work from personal observation of the sisters' behavior: "what effect they had when they were traveling, how they quarreled, how they spent money. . . . buying scarfs, handling things, patting hair, a little crazy."
 Money the Cones certainly had (the equivalent of $30,000 a year each in today's currency, a comfortable income at the time), and once their buying started in earnest it took on a feverish life of its own. "We are being drowned in things," Etta wrote to Gertrude in 1922, and among those things they counted not only modern European art but Egyptian sculpture, Middle Eastern textiles, Indian metalwork, 18th-century French jewelry and African sculpture. (The two recreated rooms in the Cone Galleries from the sisters' Baltimore apartments -- they lived in the same building -- show a decor verging on clutter, though contemporary photographs suggest it was as much a period style as a personal one.)
 The modern art they acquired was often superb, though it was superb within certain limits. As Ms. Richardson has observed, while the Cones were interested in some of the most radical artists of their day, they were also inclined to buy those artists' most conservative works. This was the case with Picasso, for example. They treasured his "Mother and Child" of 1922, a sentimental image redeemed only by its gossamer brushwork, but when Etta bought one of his bold "Demoiselles"-period Cubist studies of a female nude, she made it clear that she had done so reluctantly and only to fill out the collection.
 The Cones made their most serious commitment to the work of Matisse, and it is for the Matisse paintings, sculptures and works on paper that their collection is most celebrated. These include the 1917 "Woman in a Turban (Lorette)," an elegant portrait of an Italian model swathed in white against a sea-green ground; "Seated Odalisque, Left Knee Bent, Ornamental Background and Checkerboard" (1928), in which hot red and yellow patterning is taken to near-hallucinatory extremes, and "Interior, Flowers and Parakeets" (1924), Etta's favorite.
 The Cones often bought work directly from Matisse's studio, and it is possible that his gentleman-artist demeanor appealed to them as much as his work. In any case, artist and patrons had a warm enough friendship to warrant his stay at their home when he visited America in 1930.
 Despite the depth of their Matisse collecting, the Cones chose from within an extremely narrow range of his work, favoring small-scale, highly decorative images over his large-scale geometric paintings of interiors or his later cutouts. Charm rather than audacity was the effect they preferred, though in fact Etta's two largest purchases were daring in the extreme. One was the "Large Reclining Nude," a 1935 extravaganza in pink for which Matisse supplied his patron with dozens of working photographs. The other was the great early "Blue Nude" of 1907, one of the artist's darkest and most provocative images.
 The "Blue Nude" was bought from Stein, who, financially strapped at the time, was trying to unload her own collection. But did Etta Cone buy the painting for the Stein pedigree alone? There is evidence that the Cones' own collective eye had sharpened and refined with time. They began to view themselves as art collectors rather than shoppers, and they took ever greater pains to give their accumulated holdings a historical shape. It was with this in mind that they added, for example, a stunning Courbet (his "Shaded Stream at le Puits Noir," circa 1860-65), and van Gogh's "Pair of Boots" (1887), both of which are on view in Baltimore, along with a selection of engaging works by such minor figures as Marie Laurencin and the American Leon Kroll.
 It is the lesser work -- and there's a fair amount of it, including a good many of the Matisses -- that makes their collection an erratic affair artistically but a fascinating document in human terms. What began as a whim, perhaps an effort on the part of two bright, inquisitive women to perk up the walls of a somber Victorian apartment in what was then an American backwater town, gradually became a valuable and directed life's work. It not only brought to America the fresh air of the European avant-garde but indirectly it also helped preserve the taste of a great expatriate, Gertrude Stein, many of whose pioneering purchases the Cones later made their own.
 AND, OF COURSE, THE CONES PUT Baltimore on the map. By the time of her death, Etta had been wooed by many art-world luminaries (among them Alfred Barr, director of the Museum of Modern Art throughout the 30's), hoping that her collection might come their way. But Baltimore, improved or not, got the nod. It is appropriate that in approaching the museum's handsome new wing for postwar art one must pass through their legacy, and it is nice to imagine them viewing the new art themselves -- bored, perhaps, by Jackson Pollock, interested in Andy Warhol, puzzled and possibly shocked by Gilbert and George, all the while keeping prices and available wall space at home firmly in mind. Whatever their final evaluation of the art on view might be, it is in some measure thanks to their keen eyes and their faith in the new that it is there at all.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 30 about the Cone sisters, the art collectors for whom the Baltimore Museum of Art's newly refurbished Cone Galler ies are named, misstated Claribel Cone's birthplace and profession. She was born in Jonesboro, Tenn., not in Baltimore, and was a patholo gist, not a gynecologist. The article also misstated the ownership of Pi casso's painting "Mother and Child." It did not belong to both sisters; Etta bought it after Clari bel's death. The article also referred incorrectly to the purchase of Ma tisse's "Blue Nude." That painting was bought by Claribel, not by Etta, and not from Gertrude Stein but at an auction of the estate of the lawyer and arts patron John Quinn.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Claribel Cone, Gertrude Stein and Etta Cone -- Bringing to America the fresh air of the European avant-garde. (Baltimore Museum of Art); A corner of the newly rehung Cone Galleries in Baltimore, with Matisse's "Large Seated Nude" (1923-25) and, on the wall to the right, "Blue Nude" (1907), the painting that inspired it. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE MUSEUM OF ART

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE MUSEUM OF ART

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; MUSEUMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND; CONE, CLARIBEL (1864-1929); CONE, ETTA (1870-1949);
STEIN, GERTRUDE (1874-1946) ETTA CONE (89%); GERTRUDE STEIN (88%); HERMAN CONE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1994



744 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 71; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: STRENTHENING THE DOLLAR;
An Exercise In Making Change

BYLINE: By HOLLY BRUBACH

 BODY:
Officials at the Treasury Department recently announced that our currency is being redesigned -- not for esthetic reasons, they claim, but in an attempt to foil counterfeiters. (The difference, it is said, will be practically negligible to the naked eye.) As it happened, this news coincided with the complaints of a friend, Dutch by birth -- a world traveler who had lived in several countries before moving not too long ago to New York. He found American money confusing, he said. "It's all the same color and all the same size, and you actually have to look at the numbers to see how much a bill is worth." He had a point, come to think of it. In the wake of the new French 50-franc note, featuring a drawing of the Little Prince -- a whimsical sort of tribute that would seem somehow heretical in America, where we take our money very seriously -- we invited seven "experts" to reconceive the dollar bill. The results, seen on these pages, are on exhibit at Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, through Jan. 7. HOLLY BRUBACH

GRAPHIC: Photos: SEED MONEY: I chose engravings of cash crops -- peanuts, soybeans, cotton, tobacco -- because that's what made America strong. I put a roadway on the $10 bill because that also made us great: distribution. It is the transportation network that really fuels our economy -- both physically (with roads) and ephemerally (with the information highway). Also, I wanted to celebrate the idea that our streets are paved with gold. (Karen Bausman, Architect) (Pg. 70)
 
HOLLYWOOD SCRIP: I took an existing design and thought subversively about it, to make some comment about America. (My favorite bill is Austria's 50-schilling note with Freud on it. It's a great bill considering all the psychological implications of touching and spending money.) Since we are such a culture of cliches, I thought, why not put what America stands for around the world -- film culture -- on the money? If we can have Bambi on our stamps, we can have scenes from movies on our money. (Barbara Bloom, Artist) (Pg. 71)
 
PLAY DOUGH: I like to think of the happier things money can buy. To remove it from government as much as possible. It would be nice to get back to the barter system, and make money more of an offering. I tried to find the most colorful and interesting images. An animal is much more interesting than a politician. (Todd Oldham, Fashion Designer) (Pg. 72)
 
OLD MONEY: Paper currency will soon be obsolete, so redesigning it would be like designing a new rotary phone. In the future, routine financial transactions will be conducted electronically. Cash will survive, however, in the underground economy, where it will be used for exchanges that shouldn't be traced -- from buying black-market cigarettes to making illicit babysitter payments. Old reserves of paper, officially "canceled," will be the new cash. In an economy where paper is rare and electronic signals cheap, the paper standard will replace the gold one. (J. Abbott Miller and Ellen Lupton, Graphic Designers) (Pg. 72)
 
SPENDER FRIENDLY: Our teacher at Pratt used to say that pure unadulterated beauty should be the goal of civilization. Since money is so central to civilization, it make sense that it should be beautiful. For that reason we chose Don Freeman's photographs of nature for the background -- they are so obviously beautiful and inherently hard to copy. We used different color to help differentiate the denominations (now bigger and clearer), and instead of "legal tender" in fine print, we wrote, "collect 'em or trade 'em with your friends," which is much friendlier. (Tucker Viemeister and Rie Norregaard, Industrial Designers) (Pg. 73)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (59%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (59%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (59%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (72%); EXHIBITIONS (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); 

PERSON: HOLLY BRUBACH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1994



745 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Outdoor Home Lighting Takes On a Softer Look

BYLINE: By JOYCE JONES 

 BODY:
EARLY this evening, now that the clocks have been turned back an hour to Eastern Standard Time, the landscape will be suddenly plunged into darkness. One outdoor lighting specialist often jokingly approaches homeowners by saying: "It's 6 P.M. Do you know where your flowers are?"
Where once the extended period of darkness had limited remedies -- a splash of light at the front door, a floodlight over the garage -- today people are using far more sophisticated methods of illuminating their homes, for security and esthetic reasons. 
 "Homeowners in New Jersey have taken to the concept of outdoor lighting very quickly," said David DePorter, the customer service manager at Hadco, a division of the Genlyte Company that manufactures outdoor lighting fixtures. "In the last three years our sales have doubled, with New Jersey only topped by California in volume of sales."
The trend in outdoor residential lighting has also created a concern: light trespassing. Laura Rhodes, whose house in Short Hills is illuminated by a process called moonlighting, a soft method of diffusing light, said: "Harsh spotlights that glare on to another person's property are as aggravating and thoughtless as noise pollution. Living in the suburbs, you have to consider your neighbor's needs as well as your own."
Any lighting is welcomed by law-enforcement agencies, which consider it a major tool in crime prevention. Larry Vardell, the supervisor of community relations for the Dade County, Fla., Public Safety Department, in a report circulated to police departments in the area, wrote: "The notion that good lighting is a prerequisite for safety is as old as civilization."
"Equally ancient is the problem of providing good light," he added, citing the Babylonians' burning thick wicks in bowls of fat during crowded festival times.
For whatever reason it is installed, outdoor lighting has been a boon to landscape architects, who now include it in their garden plans; outdoor lighting specialists; electricians and electrical supply companies. An electrician in Morris County, Art Ayres, said his outdoor lighting jobs had easily doubled in the last five years.
"Currently, only 35 percent of my work is for security lighting," Mr. Ayres said. "The remainder is spent on lighting to enhance the property."
Ira Margolis, the manager of Domb Lighting, an electrical supply company in Morristown, said, "The introduction of low-voltage lighting also has been a boost to the industry." To keep up with customers' questions, employees attend classes taught at the Genlyte Company in Secaucus. In turn, they offer seminars at the store on topics like the advantages of economical 12-volt systems.
Mr. Margolis said that the harsh, glaring floodlight, once thought to be a bane for the burglar has actually been an aid. Floodlights create pools of bright light and leave darker areas, sometimes close to windows, where burglars can hide. He added, "The old-fashioned floodlight has been replaced with lighting techniques that produce special effects like moonlighting, silhouetting, mirror lighting, shadow and grazing where lighting enhances the texture of a vertical surface like a brick or stone wall."
Some of these lighting concepts are not necessarily new, said Vernon Daniel, president of Vernon Daniel Associates, which has an office in Millburn. He has been moonlighting gardens for 30 years, bathing them in light that gives the illusion of the moon's shining on them.
"People are now grasping the esthetics of night lighting, aware that they can do away with ugly floodlights on the back of a house that make the property look like a prison yard," Mr. Daniel said.
"It really is a matter of educating people about lighting," he said. "Lighting is an abstract effect; people can't hold it in their hand."
For example, he said floodlights should be installed high in trees, beaming down. But if a floodlight is installed lower down on the house, special shields can be installed to reduce the glare.
Gauging the public's interest, outdoor lighting manufacturers have developed a variety of products. Copper tulips and shell designs when grouped together light floral beds; accent lights draw attention to a fountain or a favorite tree; pagodas highlight pathways, and small lanterns cast a soft glow in low-level areas.
"In the past 10 years, the demand for outdoor lighting has risen dramatically," said Mark Mosello, president of Design Lighting by Marks, based in White Plains. His company illuminates houses and gardens for prices ranging from $1,000 to $50,000 and beyond.
But business has not always been so good. Twenty-seven years ago when he suggested that he put lights on a specimen oak tree in one client's garden, her reaction, he said, was one of bewilderment: "Why would I want to light up a tree?"
Mr. Mosello recalled, "I told her because the tree was beautiful and should be enjoyed at night, too. Once the tree was illuminated, she loved it and so did her neighbors."
Mr. Mosello added: "Everyone knows that we need light at night. Today that concept is being marketed in a different way. Let us light up the night, putting in view what is seen during the day in an esthetically pleasing manner. It's creating a soft welcoming glow that makes you view the night in a whole new manner."
That's the way Mrs. Rhodes and her husband, Frederick, looked at it when they had outdoor lighting installed. In addition to illuminating their garden by moonlighting, they wanted to light up a pond in front of their house -- but only the portion that touched their property. They did not want light to reflect onto their neighbors' portion of the pond.
"With downlighting in the trees, the water came into view but the lights were not visible on the other side of the pond," Mrs. Rhodes said. "It's so soothing to enjoy the pond during the day. In the evening before we had the lighting installed, while we knew it was just beyond the terrace, we couldn't see it.
"Now we can, and yet we have made sure that our pleasure and sense of security have not, in effect, robbed our neighbors of their right to privacy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Homeowners are turning to new kinds of exterior lighting systems for security and esthetic reasons. The home of Dr. Samara Singhe in Saddle River was illuminated by Mark Mosello, president of Design Lighting by Marks. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLYT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335122 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL & INSTITUTIONAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335121 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3646 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, & INSTITUTIONAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURES (56%); SIC3645 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAMARA, RUSSIA (59%); 

COMPANY: PHILIPS LIGHTING BUSINESS UNIT PROFESSIONAL LUMINAIRES NORTH AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAMARA, RUSSIA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LIGHTING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS HOMEOWNERS (90%); LIGHT POLLUTION (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); HOME SECURITY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); TRENDS (73%); NOISE POLLUTION (73%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (73%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); SUBURBS (72%); BURGLARY (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); CRIME PREVENTION (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: JONES, JOYCE VERNON DANIEL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



746 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: UNIVERSITY PRESSES;
Gasoline Dreams

BYLINE: By Thomas Hine; Thomas Hine is the author of "Populuxe" and "The Total Package," a forthcoming study of the history and meaning of containers.

 BODY:

THE GAS STATION IN AMERICA
By John A. Jakle and Keith A. Sculle.
Illustrated. 272 pp. Baltimore:
The Johns Hopkins University Press. $32.95. 
GASOLINE is one of the few commodities in America whose consumption has, in recent years, become more public and less segmented by class, age and income.
My humble Geo Prizm drinks from the same pump as the burnished Infiniti alongside it, the fierce Dodge Ram pickup behind it and the oversized, superannuated Buick, held together with wire and duct tape, waiting its turn. And (except in New Jersey and Oregon, where self-service is illegal) the driver of each must soil his hands with gasoline and stand in line to pay a young woman who asks, vacantly, "What pump was that?"
Such low-quality equality is a long way from those uniformed men from Texaco who worked from Maine to Mexico and loved their job of servicing your car, from the days of "registered rest rooms" and the mysteries of "Marfak lubrication." It's true, of course, that such things were more a phenomenon of advertising than of real life. But now we are so dependent on automobiles that, like hard-core addicts of any kind, we can expect to be abused, not seduced, by those who sell us what we can't go on without.
In "The Gas Station in America," John A. Jakle, a professor of geography and landscape architecture at the University of Illinois, Urbana, and Keith A. Sculle, the head of research and education at the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, recount the history of a form of business and social institution they say is fast disappearing. Although the mini-mart where I fill my tank happens to be owned by a large oil company, most of its profits come from Snapple, Doritos and milk, so it's not exactly a gas station.
The mini-mart can also be seen as another stage in the gas station's nearly nine-decade evolution. But Mr. Jakle and Mr. Sculle seem particularly eager to declare that the gas station is history -- largely in order to define it as a worthy area for study in their disciplines.
Unlike such books as Daniel I. Vieyra's "Fill 'Er Up!" and John Margolies's "Pump and Circumstance," which concentrate on design and celebrate the personal and the outrageous, "The Gas Station in America" strives for a more complex understanding of the typical. "The gasoline station, as the other commercial form-types of the roadside," the authors write, "redefines localities intruded upon according to the fashionable universals of modern economy." The authors' prose could use a tuneup, but their approach is valid.
Gasoline stations were, for the most part, local representatives of businesses that operated on a global scale and were usually trying to increase their marketing reach. They were among the first buildings to represent a standardization of quality and service -- the branding of place. The expansion of "automobility" had paradoxically increased people's desire for things that were just like those at home.
Mr. Jakle and Mr. Sculle demonstrate this phenomenon in several ways. They describe the Pure Oil Company's famous "English cottage" design style and discuss the upper-middle-class mania for the suburban picturesque as a decisive reason for it. But they also give due emphasis to the use of distinctive blue tile for the roofs, which allowed these seemingly modest buildings to function as signs.
In a particularly useful chapter they discuss the process by which the oil companies colonized a road linking Champaign and Urbana, Ill., turning it into a commercial strip, and then receded in importance as other sorts of businesses grew to dominate it. This is the sort of thing most middle-aged people have observed in their lifetimes, but it is good to have an example documented.
THE book is weaker in making connections between its themes. For example, the disappearance of houses from roads that became strips seems to have diminished the need for gas stations to feign domesticity. That, along with the expansion of products and services in the stations themselves, suggests that the cottagelike station was doomed, and that the modern, streamlined horizontal box that took its place was a more visible, more commodious creature in a less respectable environment. The way the packagelike building changes the nature of the place it's in and induces a whole new kind of environment is interesting and important to understand. But station design is discussed in Chapters 5 and 6, while the strip is in Chapter 8, and the authors don't attempt to relate them.
An interminable account of corporate territoriality -- the oil marketers' often thwarted attempts to extend their sales areas -- is nowhere connected to the descriptions of the stations' designs or the shaping of the landscape. The oil companies' territorial struggles were complicated, to be sure, and it must have been a lot of work to pull this information together. But the authors don't link those struggles to their subject.
When Mr. Jakle and Mr. Sculle do hazard explanations for a phenomenon, they tend to be unimpressive. They speculate that the conversion of gas stations into convenience stores with pumps was an effort to make women more comfortable. They seem not to have noticed changes in automobiles that made their repair more specialized and dependent on diagnostic tools available primarily to dealers. The gas station may be endangered; the old-time grease monkey is extinct. The former service bays have filled up with snacks and staples.
Mr. Jakle and Mr. Sculle argue, a bit defensively at times, that the gas station and the roadside are entitled to serious study, and that theirs is an attempt to go beyond the mere description that has characterized the field thus far. "The Gas Station in America" does advance that study. It provides important information and insights for those who will explain more fully the American landscape of consumption.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: An illustration of a curbside gasoline pump, 1915. (NATIONAL PETROLEUM NEWS/FROM "THE GAS STATION IN AMERICA")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GAS STATION IN AMERICA, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (72%); HISTORY (69%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (64%); WRITERS (64%); GEOGRAPHY (64%); 

PERSON: HINE, THOMAS; JAKLE, JOHN A; SCULLE, KEITH A KEITH A SCULLE (83%); JOHN A JAKLE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



747 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 43; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: UNIVERSITY PRESSES;
A Long Line of Optimists

BYLINE: By Jonathan Spence; Jonathan Spence teaches modern Chinese history at Yale. He is currently writing a book on the 19th-century Taiping Rebellion.

 BODY:

MOUNTAIN OF FAME
Portraits in Chinese History.
By John E. Wills Jr.
Illustrated. 403 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press. $24.95. 
 THE term he translates as "Mountain of Fame," John E. Wills Jr. tells us in the opening pages of this spirited and highly intelligent book, is an ambiguous one in the original Chinese. Composed of two simple Chinese characters, those for "name" and "mountain," it at once invites anyone familiar with traditional Chinese thought and culture to speculate on all the different historically famous scenic mountains and the emotions they have evoked over time. At the same time, the phrase invites reflection on the force of having a name, in the sense either of personal identity, or of fame, be it contemporary or posthumous.
The most celebrated use of this ambiguous phrase occurs in an intensely personal letter to a friend written by the man generally recognized to be China's greatest historian, Sima Qian, who lived from about 145 to 86 B.C. Sima Qian told his friend that since his manuscript meant everything to him, he was determined to finish it at all costs, despite unbearable pain and humiliations, so that it would live on for all time on this "name mountain." And what a book it would be, Sima Qian assured his friend, a book that "gathered up and brought together the old traditions of the world which were scattered and lost"; a book that "examined the
deeds and events of the past and investigated the principles behind their success and failure, their rise and decay" as well as "all that concerns heaven and man." As if that were not enough, the book would "penetrate the changes of the past and present."
As a manifesto for ambitious historians, Sima Qian's letter has perhaps no rivals, and it leads Mr. Wills, in "Mountain of Fame: Portraits in Chinese History," to a splendid reflection on the nature of the Chinese relationship to history, culture and morality: "The optimism about human potentialities that runs through the Chinese tradition from Confucius to Mao has been inseparable from stories of the realization of the highest values in actual lives. Moreover, all these famous people, even legendary ancestors and heroes who after their deaths became gods, were conceived of as real, mortal, limited human beings, living in society and dependent on others, not gods on earth. Often their stories can be read at many levels, so that their moral and intellectual brilliance is not lost sight of, but the complexities, the hidden chains of cause, the flaws of heroes and the unwanted consequences of virtuous action also are revealed. It is, I suspect, in large part because of its obsession with the stories of its famous people that Chinese culture is so rich and varied in its moral imagination, so at home, indeed delighted, with the complexities and ambiguities of human character and action."
It was because of this rich and varied material that Mr. Wills, a professor of history at the University of Southern California, decided to draw together some 20 Chinese biographical case studies garnered from his lifetime of teaching Chinese history in the United States, so as to offer the general reader "a quick and graspable introduction" to "some main themes" in China's history.
Few things are harder in writing about China than to find the right mix for such a "quick and graspable" introduction. The sweep of time is daunting -- at least 4,000 years -- if one wants to explore key conceptual and spatial continuities. The names both of places and of people are baffling and elusive to Western eyes and ears. The risk of seeming repetitious to glazed readers is formidable, as Han succeeds Qin, Tang follows Sui, Qing smashes Ming. And evasiveness about many of the intimate aspects of the human experience that are dear to contemporary readers is pervasive in the long succession of Chinese state-sponsored histories. Thus the use of linked biographical sketches as the pegs on which to hang the rough fabric of a manageable analysis is an understandable and even valuable technique.

OTHER historians, of course, have tried this strategy at various times. What gives Mr. Wills's attempt its originality and its effectiveness is the artful span of examples he has chosen, examples that not only range across time from the very early cultural hero Emperor Yu to Mao Zedong, but also are chosen to illuminate major themes and continuities within the Chinese universe. Thus the reader does indeed learn -- in a sprightly yet most effective way -- much about China's statist values, its modes of political behavior, Chinese definitions of courage and loyalty, the broad outlines of Buddhism and of Taoism, coastal trade, the impact of the West and the rise of Communism.
There is high drama, cruelty and excess in many of these stories, especially those about the first Qin Emperor and the Empress Wu, for as Mr. Wills nicely says, "many people who seek great power have a little bit of monster in their makeup" (Mr. Wills does not belabor such themes unduly). But there is also much subtlety and intellectual adventure, especially in the studies of Sima Qian himself, of the early woman historian Ban Zhao, of the military strategist Zhuge Liang, the intuitionist philosopher Wang Yangming and the nationalist politician and theorist Liang Qichao. And there is also wit and charm mixed with the telling of great events, most of all in the portraits of Confucius and of Su Dongpo, the Song politician, painter and poet who is clearly a personal favorite of Mr. Wills, as he has been for generations of Chinese in the past.
My one main regret is that Mr. Wills does not bring in more people outside what one might still call the mainline intellectual and educated ruling circles of China. Yes, there are two women (and brief vignettes of some others) in the collection, along with revolutionaries and religious leaders. But it would have been grand to have at least one scientist in whatever sphere, and a merchant or businessman operating within the Chinese economic structure (to complement the man on the edge, Zheng Chenggong), and some thinker -- perhaps an iconoclast of the May 4, 1919, movement -- who really grappled deeply with the full 20th-century range of challenges posed to Chinese values by the West.
There are surprises, even for those who have read the same kind of materials at various times and pondered the best way to present the insights buried in them. Perhaps the most striking is the inclusion of Chiang Ching-kuo, the son of Chiang Kai-shek by his first marriage. Moscow-educated and married enduringly to a Russian woman, the younger Chiang dominated Taiwan as President from 1978 until his death in 1988, and masterminded the first stages of its transition to democracy, a transition continued by his chosen vice president, Lee Teng-hui, who is a Christian, born in Taiwan and educated in Japan and the United States. As Mr. Wills politely phrases it: "Leadership in nation-building requires vision, discipline and an ability to pay attention to the common people and meet their needs. The leadership of the Kuomintang has provided a good measure of all three, but only in three successive generations. The third of these figures is the least known, and fully as important and intriguing as Sun Yat-sen and Chiang Kai-shek."

 This judgment, a complex one historically, but neatly put, explains the chapter broadly called "The Kuomintang Legacy." Since these three formidable men were so tightly interconnected and presided at grand events even when they could not control them, this device works well. Less successful, I feel, is the attempt to bring the book up-to-date with a closing chapter on "Names in the News," which has brief vignettes of Deng Xiaoping, the writer and astrophysicist Fang Lizhi, the journalist Liu Binyan and a scattering of economic entrepreneurs and young leaders of the democracy movement of 1989. Mr. Wills is right when he says we cannot know where China is heading, and thus we cannot be sure who will have enduring significance. But if he had been just a little bolder, could he not have emulated Sima Qian and thrown all his narrative and historical skills behind one contemporary exemplar, and helped endow him or her with significance? As Mr. Wills himself has so well shown us, it is people who put other people on that elusive Mountain of Fame. None can do it for themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MOUNTAIN OF FAME: PORTRAITS IN CHINESE HISTORY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (92%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SPENCE, JONATHAN; WILLS, JOHN E JR JOHN E WILLS JR (89%); SIMA QIAN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1994



748 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
HAITIAN 'SECTION CHIEF' RULES
Despite the President's return, authoritarian and often abusive rural magistrates still control much of rural Haiti, but the peasants have been emboldened and are beginning to fight back. A1 

RWANDAN REFUGEES THREATENED
Rwandan refugee camps in Zaire are under the control of the former Government officials and their allies who are believed responsible for the massacres, and the refugees are being terrorized. A1
 
SERBS FLEE BOSNIA AREA
Bosnian Serb soldiers and civilians have fled an area of northwest Bosnia taken by Government troops and have moved into Serb-held areas of Croatia. A3
 
AMERICAN CHALLENGE OVER BOSNIA
News analysis: The United States move to lift the Bosnia arms embargo is not only a challenge to the Bosnian Serbs, but also to American allies to find a way to break the stalemate over peace. A3
 
SOUTH AFRICAN AUSTERITY
South Africa announced austerity measures, including salary cuts at the top, to deal with inherited debts and to respond to growing public disillusionment. A10
 
POPE NAMES NEW CARDINALS
Pope John Paul II named 30 new Cardinals, which is likely to change predictions about who will succeed him and which strengthens even more his control over the top ranks of the church. A10
 
ISRAEL-P.L.O. BORDER EASING
Israel said that it would relax the blockade it imposed on Palestinian areas after a bus bombing in Tel Aviv and that Palestinians would increase surveillance of borders with Egypt and Jordan. A11
 
Ukraine promised austerity measures to aid its economy. A6
 
An epidemic of vigilante killings is troubling Colombia. A8
 
Creel Journal: Drought and hunger in a Mexican region. A4
 
National A12-17, A20
 
WHITE HOUSE GUNMAN CHARGED
The man accused of riddling the White House with rifle fire was charged with two felony counts, but Federal investigators could not discern his motives. A1
 
TIGHTENING WHITE HOUSE SECURITY
Despite elaborate security, it was ordinary people who wrestled the gunman to the ground. A14
 
 The man behind the shooting: Francisco Martin Duran. A14
 
VOTER DISCONTENT NATIONWIDE
Less than two weeks before Election Day, voters are disgusted with Washington and politics, but cannot say precisely why. A1
 
THE FIGHT FOR THE SENATE
Democrats claimed they were gaining steam, but statewide polls now show that the fight for control of the Senate is neck-and-neck. A1
 
Los Angeles's Republican Mayor endorsed Dianne Feinstein. A16
 
AN ENDANGERED LIVELIHOOD
Gloucester Journal: Faced with a Federal panel's recommendation to shut down commercial fishing in Georges Bank, Massachusetts fishermen struggle to survive. A12
 
BLACK WOMEN EARNING MORE
An analysis of census figures shows that among recent college graduates, black women earn more than black men. A12
 
SEARCHING FOR SUNKEN TREASURE
Heavy seas delayed a search for treasure that sunk in the Gulf of Mexico 210 years ago. A12
 
TELLING TALES OF SATANIC ABUSE
A study of accounts of cults engaging in sacrifices, sexual perversion and cannibalism suggests that these tales are mostly figments of imagination. A13
 
FEAR GROWS FOR MISSING BOYS
Five days after their mother reported them kidnapped, two little boys are still missing and there is a growing sense of dread in their hometown of Union, S.C. A13
 
Florida residents will again vote on allowing casino gambling. A17
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CUOMO SEEN EDGING AHEAD
With a combination of patient strategy and unforeseen events, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has edged ahead of State Senator George E. Pataki in New York's gubernatorial race, according to a New York Times/ WCBS-TV poll. A1
 
FOUR NEW MILLIONAIRES OUT THERE
New York Lottery officials broke a zillion hearts with their numbered balls late Saturday night, but announced yesterday that four had beaten the odds and would share a $72.5 million Lotto jackpot. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
Wartime book loot is awkward for Russians. C13
 
John Dahl's film noir. C13
 
Theater: "The Diva Is Dismissed." C13
 
Music: "Cavalleria Rusticana" and "Pagliacci." C14
 
Dance: An inaugural program at Barnard. C15
 
Books: Finding quantum mechanics in consciousness. C20
 
Television: The militant middle, politically. C18
 
"The Ride." C18
 
Sports C1-11
 
Columns: Anderson on Giants C9
 
On Pro Football C7
 
Football: In a game of inches, Jets come up short against Colts. C1
 
Giants work overtime against the Lions to lose fifth straight. C1
 
Cowboys need a rally to overcome the winless Bengals. C6
 
Penn State and Nebraska sitting atop the college polls. C11
 
New York City Marathon: The favorite hails from Mexico City. C2
 
In Lebow's absence, familiar hands take over the reins. C3
 
When it all began, in 1970, who was the race's first winner? C4
 
Racing: Horses assemble in Kentucky for Breeders' Cup. C4
 
Obituaries B8
 
Pearl Primus, dancer and choreographer.
 
Charles E. Stewart Jr., federal judge in Manhattan.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
One more for Mr. Moynihan.
 
New York Congressional races.
 
Consider the pumpkin.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Pie in the sky.
 
William Safire: Glory of competition.
 
Mordecai Richler: Tired of separatism.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Bridge C18
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UKRAINE (79%); JORDAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (70%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LOTTERY (73%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UKRAINE (79%); JORDAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); CROATIA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (70%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); REFUGEES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SHOOTINGS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); MAYORS (67%); MEN (67%); RELIGION (67%); WEATHER (66%); FELONIES (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (60%); ARMS EMBARGOES (54%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



749 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
Paradox of '94: Gloomy Voters In Good Times

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LORAIN, Ohio, Oct. 28

 BODY:
The ornery and ill-tempered voters who will sit in judgment on Election Day cannot exactly put a finger on why they are so disgusted with Washington and politics.
They know that inflation is low and unemployment is down. They know that the country is not at war, that even the disparaged expedition into Haiti turned out better than many of them expected. Sure, some were disappointed that no health care plan was voted on. But others were relieved because they did not want to lose their own coverage or pay any more for it. 
 So what are they complaining about? "The unknown," said Russ Carver, a Michigan steelworker standing in a union office. "What could be."
That may be a nearly impossible thing to campaign against, the vague notion that no matter what anybody does, things might get worse. But that is exactly what politicians are facing from a mercurial and bored electorate.
To listen to voters in two Midwestern steel towns where things are better than they were in the 1980's but a long way from booming, it has gotten to the point where some seem to think there is very little that politicians contribute to the country.
In River Rouge, Mich., a city of about 11,000 just south of Detroit, a retiree standing in line at a drugstore said, "They're doing absolutely nothing for the citizens."
Here in Lorain, about 30 miles west of Cleveland, Al Fuzy, the owner of a karate school, said he did not even know whether to believe the inflation and unemployment figures that he said some politician somewhere would take credit for.
"We don't really know what's going on in Washington at all," Mr. Fuzy said. "There are so many facts and statistics. They don't use a language that normal, everyday people can understand. It's nothing more than a spider web of deceit."
In recent years, it has, of course, become fashionable to attack Washington and politicians in general. Whether the bad mood comes from alienation, ignorance, indifference or "did not-did too" campaigning is hard to tell.
But all of this has made things harder for precinct captains like Michael Koury, an old-time Democrat who is a real estate agent when he is not passing out political literature. He has not been thrown off porches or anything, but he said he knew not to try the hard sell that might have worked a generation ago.
"Everybody is a free-thinker nowadays," Mr. Koury said. "Nobody likes to be told how to vote. They want to go their own way."
The problem now, he said, is that people may have it too good. "They forget where they came from," Mr. Koury said. "Business is good. The people are working. It's a great time to live in America. They got it good, and they want it better."
Mayor Alex Olejko of Lorain, a Democrat, said he could not figure it out. The Ford plant in this city of 71,000 cannot churn out minivans and Thunderbirds fast enough, the steel mill started hiring this year for the first time since 1982, and unemployment has gone to 6 percent now from 24 percent a decade ago.
"We're doing as good as we did with Truman," the Mayor said. "Your son is working. Your daughter is working. You're working. You're getting your pension. What more can you ask for?"
He caught his breath and thought of something else. "Housing is going up," he said. "What more do you want?"
The answer from voters in both Lorain and River Rouge was as vague and unformed as their general discontent. People mentioned the idea of a third party or term limits, but not with any particular fervor. The only thing clear was their lack of interest.
"Politics is like life insurance," said Bob LaForest, president of Local 1299 of the United Steelworkers union in River Rouge. "It's something I got to have, but I don't want to know nothing about it."
Whereas bad news bounced off President Ronald Reagan like oil on Teflon, bad news seems to be sticking to President Clinton, at least in the minds of many voters interviewed, like lint to Velcro.
To hear the impressions of voters in the last week is to be transported back to 1992, as if the last two years never happened.
Gennifer Flowers, the President's statement that he smoked marijuana but did not inhale, his absence from the Vietnam War, all seem to be as fresh in voters' minds as they were when Mr. Clinton was riding the bus across the country instead of Air Force One.
"He flip-flops," said Nancy Sabath, a program coordinator at Head Start in Lorain. "He just doesn't stay with things. And underlying that, he didn't serve in the military. That's part of being American."
For some people, whatever Teflon President Clinton may have seems to work only with good news. Many voters seem to look past the low inflation and drop in unemployment and give him no credit for a favorable economy.
"The economy is cyclical," said Bob Orlowski, a sales representative in River Rouge. It was an observation made over and over in the two steel towns, where people seem to conclude that their jobs depend on things other than politics when the going is good.
Mr. Orlowski said he had not decided who would get his vote in the various Michigan races, but he said he was getting little help from the finger-pointing in campaign advertisements.
"They muddy the water to purposely confuse the voter," said Mr. Orlowski, who works for an industrial gas company. "Even if it's not true, it's what you remember when you pull the lever."
With so many races involving candidates whom voters do not know or do not care about, people are having a hard time distinguishing the players.
In the Ohio Senate race, in which Joel Hyatt, a Democrat, is running against Lieut. Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, only two things stood out to Ruth Wilhelm, a Lorain steelworker. This is what she gleaned from the gauzy DeWine advertisements that paint the usually dark-suited politician as a down-home family man.
"DeWine?" she asked. "Plaid shirt. Lots of kids."
Mayor Olejko of Lorain said he missed the old days. "Years ago you'd see Kennedy and Nixon debate," he said. "They'd shake hands and talk about the issues. Now they're talking about families and scandals. It's sickening. I've been in politics since 1957, and I've never seen such crappy ads."
Rick Crum, a steelworker in River Rouge, said politicians could not be believed anyway. "They're all a bunch of leeches," said Mr. Crum, who added that politicians must have been looking at different economic figures than he was. "If inflation is so low, how come cereal is $4.75 a box?"
He is tough on all politicians except his own. His Congresswoman is Barbara-Rose Collins, a Democrat. He said she was doing a good job, as best as he could tell. "I get a lot of mail from her," Mr. Crum said. "She seems to be trying."
Some voters said they did not want to be bothered with having to watch every step made by their members of Congress. "You put these guys in office so you don't have to keep an eye on them," said Frank Shonebarger, sales manager at a tool repair shop in Lorain.
But Mr. Shonebarger has noticed the gridlock and grandstanding, and it angers him. "As long as there's Republicans and Democrats going at each other on both sides of the street, nothing gets done," he said.
He shook his head. "There's too much politics in politics," he said. Yogi Berra could not have said whatever was meant any better.
But some voters are not so hard on politicians. Elected officials are, after all, people too, Mr. Fuzy conceded. "On an individual basis, they are probably some of the nicest people you would ever want to meet," he said. "But get them together and put them in Washington and we still don't know how low they'll stoop. Your standard American is just tired of everything."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lorain, Ohio -- As Election Day approaches, voters seem to alternate between cynicism and indifference. "We don't really know what's going on in Washington at all," complained Al Fuzy, a karate school owner. "It's nothing more than a spider web of deceit." Ruth Wilhelm, a steelworker, could remember only two things about the Republican candidate for Senate: "DeWine? Plaid shirt. Lots of kids." (Photographs by Dan Levin for the New York Times); River Rouge, Mich. -- Bob LaForest, right, summed up his feelings about the elections with an analogy that seemed to reflect the mood of many voters: "Politics is like life insurance. It's something I got to have, but I don't want to know nothing about it." Bob Orlowski was equally unhappy with politicians: "They muddy the water to purposely confuse the voter. Even if it's not true, it's what you remember when you pull the lever." (Photographs by Peter Yates for the New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; LORAIN (OHIO); RIVER ROUGE (MICH); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; VOTER BEHAVIOR ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



750 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: High Seas Delaying Recovery of Sunken Treasure

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT FOURCHON, La., Oct. 30

 BODY:
Forrest Gump has not had the only Gulf of Mexico trawler struck by impossible fortune. Some real-life fishermen whose nets snagged on the bottom off the coast here last year discovered a treasure of 400,000 colonial Spanish pieces of eight more than 200 years old. All silver, they are worth millions, perhaps tens of millions of dollars.
Scholars say the treasure was almost certainly borne on the Spanish brig of war El Cazador, dispatched by King Charles III of Spain in 1784 to shore up the paper currency and the economy of his Louisiana colony. 
 This weekend, divers aided by a robot planned to begin raising the largest portion of that treasure from 280 feet of water 35 to 45 miles south of here. But heavy seas crashing over their ship delayed their mission until Monday at the earliest.
James Reahard, whose partnership owns the fortunate trawler, named the Mistake, said the only sunken treasures he had hunted in his 59 years had been some antique bottles pulled from Florida mangrove swamps. But to hear him talk about the sales potential of his latest find, he is learning the treasure business quickly.
"We think the biggest interest will be from people who see the history of this wreck," he said in a telephone interview. "Everybody will want a little piece of it."
Had the ship delivered its cargo, Spain could have kept the Louisiana colony, stretching to the Rocky Mountains and the Canadian border, out of French and then American hands, Mr. Reahard said.
Other historians note, however, that later in 1783 another Spanish ship delivered a load of coins to New Orleans, although perhaps not as many. Spain nonetheless agreed to trade the colony to France in 1800 in return for some Italian territory, and France sold it to the United States in 1803 for $15 million.
According to Spanish archives in Seville, El Cazador (The Hunter) set out from Veracruz, Mexico, on Jan. 11, 1784, under one of the king's most trusted captains, Gabriel de Campos y Pineda. Bristling with cannons, she was the armored car of her day. The manifests listed 400,000 silver pesos, or pieces of eight the size of a silver dollar, and 50,000 pesos in smaller change. By June, no ship or survivors had arrived, and so it was declared lost, probably in a storm.
The ship itself was virtually eaten away, but cannons and vast piles of coins remained. A European scholar the partners hired identified the ship, and another authority who has learned of the find says documents and artifacts appear to match. "It seems very likely that this is the Cazador," said Eugene Lyon, director of the Center for Historic Research at Flagler College in St. Augustine, Fla.
Scuba divers laboriously recovered less one-third of the treasure since last fall. Mr. Reahard recently turned to Oceaneering International Inc., of Houston, which expects that raising 20 tons or so of coins will be quick but not cheap, taking a week or two and from $250,000 to $500,000.
Mr. Reahard expects a healthy profit once sales begin by about the end of the year. He notes that some coins are little more than silver chips while others are nearly perfect. "I've heard of similar coins with no history from $45 to $600, depending on condition," he said
If the sellers are already working with the cunning of the DeBeers diamond syndicate, lest they flood the market, large potential buyers are doing their best to remain unmoved. James H. Cohen, a coin and antique weapons dealer in New Orleans, says a nearly uncirculated coin might fetch hundreds of dollars, but not one that has spent centuries corroding under the seas. "I don't know anybody who would want to collect a watered coin," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Gulf of Mexico showing the site of the treasure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OII (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); FRANCE (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); TEXAS, USA (78%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (69%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); LYON, FRANCE (74%); 

COMPANY: RIO DOCE MANGANESE EUROPE SAS (91%); OCEANEERING INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); FRANCE (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); TEXAS, USA (78%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (69%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); LYON, FRANCE (74%); 

SUBJECT: TREASURE; EL CAZADOR (SHIP) COINS & COINAGE (77%); HISTORY (77%); SCUBA DIVING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (70%); WATER SPORTS (70%); WEATHER (69%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R JAMES REAHARD (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



751 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Oil Strain Is Seen

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Military maneuvers in the Persian Gulf, pipeline damage and spills in Texas and the news Friday that two oil companies had temporarily taken refineries off line have ruffled the oil markets in recent weeks, and prices are now at their highest levels since midsummer.
But in the great scheme of energy supplies, these are mere blips. Of far greater concern, experts say, is that by the end of the decade billions of dollars will be needed to improve the oilfields, pipelines and ports in the Middle East to provide oil-consuming nations with increased supplies. 
 And it is far from certain who will provide that money, raising the possibilities that production will not meet growing demand and prices will increase worldwide.
 By some projections, the demand for oil is expected to grow 11.7 percent by the year 2000, from the current estimate of 68 million barrels a day to as much as 76 million barrels. The Middle East, with two-thirds of the world's oil reserves, should be able to notch up production to meet increasing demand for the next few years, but analysts say the region will not have the billions of dollars needed for structural improvements.
No one is suggesting that the Middle East will lose its position as the world's most important oil source of supply. If anything, the region is likely to become more important, and around the turn of the century, some analysts predict, Middle Eastern countries will be pumping at full capacity.
Yet years of reduced income brought on by weak oil prices and a need to spend more on increasing social needs have left the oil producers without the deep pockets needed to expand production, these experts say.
"There are now increasing demands for social justice and more political participation," said James A. Bill, director of international studies at William and Mary College in Williamsburg, Va.
He said repercussions from the Iranian revolution in the late 1970's were still being felt in the Middle East.
In Saudi Arabia, for example, revenue from oil totaled about $19,000 a person in 1980, but has dropped to about $3,000. "There is very little left to invest to increase oil production," Mr. Bill said. "You can't understand anything about oil or its production unless you understand the social and political context in which all this is taking place."
No one foresees a repeat of 1973, when the embargo imposed by Arab nations caused a quadrupling of oil prices and long lines at gas stations. Still, analysts believe that just because the latest confrontation in the Persian Gulf was shrugged off by the energy markets, the consuming nations should not become complacent. A series of long-term trends are expected to continue forcing most nations to buy more of their oil from the Middle East.
Since 1985 the demand for oil has gone up by about seven million barrels a day, with almost all of it being fulfilled by a rise in production by members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Production in the United States, including Alaska, has been declining, and as fields in the North Sea have matured, production growth there has slowed.
And there are too many unknowns to predict when large supplies from Russia and other former Soviet republics might begin flowing onto world markets. Exports from Russia are expected to decline by about 12 percent this year.
Keith Welham, economist for the International Energy Agency, a group that tracks energy trends for the world's consuming nations, recently predicted that the price of oil was expected to rise steadily, to about $28 a barrel by 2005. Even at those prices, few analysts predict that Middle East countries will steer the extra revenue to increasing production.
"Although there is currently some idle production capacity in Iraq and a few other OPEC countries, it is very small compared with the required expansion," he said.
A big unknown, said John H. Lichtblau, chairman of the Petroleum Research Foundation, is when Iraq, which could produce up to four million barrels a day, will come back into the world market. If its oil starts to flow in the next few years and it pushes up production, a supply squeeze could be delayed.
Moreover, there are is only limited capital available to the Middle East. Cyrus R. Tahmassebi, chief economist of Ashland Oil, said it would be difficult for Middle East nations to induce oil companies to make big investments because in the 1970's the production rights of the oil companies were severely curtailed.
"They may want to work in that direction, but it's going to be a very slow process," he said. "The oil companies are not going to come rushing back."
At the same time most large oil companies are gearing up to spend huge amounts to explore and develop new fields in countries like Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and China.
"We are having this capital shortage all over the world," Mr. Tahmassebi argued.
The United States has also become more dependent on imports. This year it will import about 45 percent of its oil, compared with 30 percent in 1984. The percentage is expected to rise as production of crude oil in the United States, which has fallen by about two million barrels a day in the last eight years, continues to decline.
There are some projections that by 2000 the United States will import about 56 percent of its oil, with about a fourth of that coming from the Persian Gulf.
Constantine Fliakos, an oil analyst for Merrill Lynch, said tight supplies also meant that any political instability in the Middle East could make supply problems worse.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Low Cost, Greater Dependence" shows the weekly price of near month contract for West-Texas intermediate crude from '82-July, '94, and percentage of net imports as a percentage of daily U.S. consumption from '75-July '94. (Sources: Datastream, Department of Energy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (95%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (95%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES; FORECASTS; PORTS; PIPELINES; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



752 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Tool Orders Surge 81.8%

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Orders for American-built machine tools in September surged 81.8 percent from September of last year, a trade group reported yesterday.
The orders, which totaled $513.8 million, were also 57.2 percent higher than a month earlier, according to the Association for Manufacturing Technology. The trade group, based in McLean, Va., represents makers of tools that cut and shape metal for products ranging from household appliances to large items like trains and planes. 
 For the first nine months of the year, machine tool orders totaled $3.34 billion, a 34.7 percent increase over the same period a year ago.
Higher orders for machine tools tend to indicate manufacturers are optimistic about sales growth and are purchasing equipment to refurbish and expand factories to meet future demand.
Thus, the latest figures suggested continued growth for the United States industrial economy, which has been expanding since the summer of 1993.
The news on machine tools followed the Government report on Friday that a spurt in consumer spending helped the economy expand at a greater-than-expected annual rate of 3.4 percent in the third quarter, while inflation remained tame.
The latest machine tool figures also are good news for consumers, Eli Lustgarten, an industry analyst for Paine Webber, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIS (AMEX) (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); 

PERSON: ELI LUSTGARTEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



753 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE SENATE;
G.O.P. HOLDING ON IN TIGHT CONTEST TO RULE SENATE

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

 BODY:
After a tumultuous week of campaigning in which Democrats proclaimed that they were gaining steam, statewide polls published yesterday showed that the fight for control of the Senate was still neck-and-neck.
Indeed, the two Republican Senators whom the Democrats say they have the best chance of picking off -- William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware and Conrad Burns of Montana -- have opened wide leads over their Democratic challengers, according to polls conducted for major newspapers in those two states. 
 Even more discouraging for Democrats, after weeks of a virtual dead heat in Pennsylvania, Representative Rick Santorum, a Republican, has pulled ahead of the incumbent Democrat, Senator Harris Wofford, in that state's latest poll. The survey of likely voters statewide, conducted for The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and WTAE-TV, showed that Mr. Santorum had 46 percent and Mr. Wofford 35 percent. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
And in Michigan, a poll of likely voters made public on Saturday night by WXYZ-TV found that Spence Abraham, the Republican, has gained over Representative Bob Carr, 46 percent to 34 percent. Another poll last week showed Mr. Carr slightly ahead.
Despite these troubling indicators, Vice President Al Gore was upbeat yesterday about Democratic prospects as he suggested that the party would catch up in the final full week of campaigning.
"I think the wind is at the backs of Democratic candidates now," Mr. Gore said on the ABC News program "This Week," "especially those who have the courage to vote for a change in our economic blueprint."
To drive home that message, President Mr. Clinton will begin a weeklong campaign tour today, beginning with appearances in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh for Mr. Wofford and the Democratic candidate for governor, Mark Singel.
Democratic officials are emphasizing that, after two debates, polls show that Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who had been considered one of the most endangered incumbents, is now clearly ahead of his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney. Democratic Senate candidates have also gained ground, although not the leads, in Arizona, California, Vermont and Washington.
And as the campaigning has grown more intense in recent days and incumbents have returned home from Washington, there has been some other promising news for Democrats. Mr. Clinton's popularity ratings have risen after his recent foreign policy successes in Haiti and Kuwait as well as his presence at the treaty signing between Israel and Jordan. Democrats are chipping away at the edge held by Republicans in national polls in which people are asked whom they will support for Congress.
In California, Representative Michael Huffington, a Republican, is on the defensive in his effort to unseat Senator Dianne Feinstein over the disclosure that he employed an illegal immigrant as a nanny.
But even with Mr. Kennedy's lead and Mr. Huffington's troubles, several analysts said it would still be very possible -- though certainly not assured -- for Republicans to win the seven seats they need to take control of the Senate. There are now 56 Democrats and 44 Republicans in the Senate. Republicans are ahead or in neck-and-neck races for nine open seats. Of the 10 Republican incumbents seeking re-election, almost all have comfortable leads; 5 Democratic incumbents are in contests that could go either way.
"There's a lot of tightening in these races," said Charles Cook, who publishes a nonpartisan political newsletter. "But I'm still doubtful of the Democrats' ability to turn it around. The conventional wisdom is the Democrats are picking up a lot of steam, but I think it's a lot of wishful thinking."
In Montana, Mr. Burns was thought to be in trouble, particularly after the Senator repeated a rancher's racial slur -- an episode that drew headlines in the state. But a poll of likely voters published yesterday by Lee Newspapers and conducted by Political Media Research Inc., found that Mr. Burns held a 51 percent-to-37 percent lead over his Democratic opponent, Jack Mudd, who is a former law school dean. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.
And in Delaware, Democratic officials said they were particularly disappointed that the Democrat, Attorney General Charles M. Oberly 3d, had been unable to make inroads against Mr. Roth, whom he has portrayed as out of touch with the state after four terms. A poll in yesterday's News-Journal in Wilmington, conducted by Louis Harris & Associates, found that Mr. Roth drew 53 percent of likely voters, and Mr. Oberly 37 percent. The margin of error is plus or minus three percentage points.
"To be completely honest, that's very different from what we thought it was going to be," Kim James, a spokeswoman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said.
Ken Klein, the Democratic Senatorial Committee's communications director, later sought to cast the results in more positive terms than Ms. James. He raised questions about how the Delaware poll was conducted and emphasized the other states where Democrats appeared to be showing marked improvement but were mostly still behind. "The overall picture in the last 10 days has been a net positive," Mr. Klein said.
But James R. Soles, a political scientist at the University of Delaware, said Democrats who had set their sights on the seat did not realize that voters in the state rarely turn out incumbents. "Once it takes politicians to its heart, Delaware doesn't lightly turn them aside," Mr. Soles said. "I have never termed Mr. Roth vulnerable."
Republicans, who last controlled the Senate in 1986, could not contain their glee over the latest polls.
"I am absolutely convinced that Republicans are going to win the United States Senate on Nov. 8," said Gary Koops, communications director for the National Republican Senatorial Committee. "There's not a Republican incumbent in the country who's trailing in any poll -- that points out that it's not just anti-incumbent. There's an anti-Democratic element to the voters' mood."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SCENARIO: Who Will Controll the Senate"
 
Republicans need a net gain of seven seats to win control of the Senate, which currently includes 56 Democrats and 44 Republicans. For that to happen, one scenario is for Republicans to win all 6 open seats currently held by Democrats, retain the 3 Republican open seats and 10 seats of incumbent Republicans, and win at least one seat now held by a Democratic incumbent
 
Open Seats of Democrats Who Are Retiring:

(Republican are neck-in-neck in all these races.)

 -- Arizona (seat of Dennis Deconcini)
 -- Tennessee (seat of Harlan Mathews)
 -- Maine (seat of George J. Mitchell)
 -- Michigan (seat of Donald W. Riegle Jr.)
 -- Ohio (seat of Howard M. Metzenbaum)
 -- Oklahoma (seat of David L. Boren)

 Open Seats of Republicans Who Are Retiring:

 (Republicans ahead in all these races.)

 -- Minnesota (seat of Dave Durenberger)
 -- Missouri (seat of John C. Danforth)
 -- Wyoming (seat of Malcolm Wallop)

 Republicans Running for re-election:

(All 10 of these Republicans are leading their races.)

 -- Montana, Conrad Burns
 -- Delaware, William V. Roth Jr.
 -- Washington, Slade Gorton
 -- Rhode Island, John H. Chafee
 -- Texas, Kay Bailey Hutchison
 -- Vermont, Jim M. Jeffords
 -- Utah, Orrin G. Hatch
 -- Mississippi, Trent Lott
 -- Indiana, Richard G. Lugar
 -- Florida, Connie Mack

 Most vulnerable Democratics

 California, Dianne Feinstein
 Pennsylvania, Harris Wofford
 Virginia, Charles S. Robb
 Tennessee, Jim Sasser
 New Jersey, Frank R. Lautenberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); DEMOCRATIC SENATE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC SENATE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); HAITI (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (70%); IMMIGRATION (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L DICK LUGAR (73%); RICK SANTORUM (72%); TRENT LOTT (58%); AL GORE (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); CONNIE MACK (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (57%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



754 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: BALLOT MEASURES;
Long Shot on Casinos Is Taken Seriously in Florida

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Half an hour after setting out from Fort Lauderdale, the cruise ship Discovery I crosses into international waters and the casually dressed crowd scatters among the gaming tables and slot machines that suddenly come to life. For the next four hours they will float on this 490-foot "boat to nowhere," one of several cruise ships that operate off Florida to give gamblers access to the casinos they could have back home but have twice rejected at the ballot box.
Next week, Florida residents will vote a third time on whether to allow casino gambling in the state. While casinos have proliferated elsewhere in the country, opposition here remains strong, if not overwhelming. Polls consistently show that the ballot measure, the Proposition for Limited Casinos, does not have the votes it needs to pass, even after an expensive campaign by pro-casino interests. But the anti-casino forces are not writing the measure off. 
 Diana Sullivan, 54, a Fort Lauderdale businesswoman aboard the cruise ship, says she does not understand the opposition. Floridians already bet on jai-alai, dog and horse races, high-stakes bingo and the lottery, she notes. Her preference, however, is the slots, for which she boards the gambling cruise ship twice a month, each time with $500 for what she calls "my therapy."
"This way nobody profits except the ship line," she said from her perch in front of the dancing fruits last Thursday night. "A lot of people go to Las Vegas and the islands, so Florida might as well profit from it."
While supporters like Ms. Sullivan say they believe casino gambling would bring more tax revenue, jobs and visitors, opponents see images of Las Vegas and neon, of neighborhoods overrun by traffic, of a surge of gambling addictions, of giant casinos ruining a land of family attractions. They say casinos are different from tracks and frontons because they are bigger, open longer, deal with more money and have more social consequences.
A particularly sore point for many residents and state officials is the contingent of casino interests from outside Florida behind the pro-casino campaign. The casino supporters have helped raise $12 million for advertising, outspending by more than 10 to 1 the family attraction operators, restaurant owners, religious conservatives and residents fearing an increase in crime who make up the opposition. The effort to pass the measure is the most expensive election campaign Florida has ever seen.
Mayor Seymour Gelber of Miami Beach, among the most vocal critics of the measure, put it this way: "I don't want my city devoured by the buccaneers who are invading us."
The proposition would amend the Florida constitution to allow 47 casinos statewide. Under the measure, casinos could be built at the state's 30 parimutuel operations at horse and greyhound tracks and jai-alai frontons, while 12 casinos could be built in nine designated counties and 5 riverboat casinos could open.
The measure specifically mentions the South Pointe redevelopment area in Miami Beach as a casino site. This is where Thomas Kramer, a German developer who has contributed more than $1 million to the pro-casino forces, and Mirage Resorts of Las Vegas hope to build a huge gambling complex.
With 41 million visitors a year and 13 million residents, Florida would be a casino operator's dream, experts say. Those who study the industry in the 24 states that have casinos or have authorized them say a Florida option would jolt the gambling industry on the East Coast, stealing business from sites like Atlantic City and forcing casinos in nearby states, like Mississippi, to focus on the local market.
Some of the communities that would get casinos are strongly opposed to the proposition, which gives them no say in whether casinos will open in their jurisdiction.
The Orlando area, for instance, could get up to six casinos if the measure passes, including a riverboat and a "mega-casino," even though voters in the area helped defeat previous casino measures, local officials say.
State officials contend that casinos would harm economic development.
Studies commissioned by the main pro-casino group, Limited Casinos Campaign Project, say casinos would create 67,000 permanent jobs in the state by 1997 and attract about 1.5 million new tourists each year. The study estimates that casinos would produce more than $800 million in state and local taxes a year.
But Florida's Department of Commerce disputes the projections, saying that economic activity would be shifted from existing businesses like restaurants and that new jobs would be mostly low-paying.
Both Gov. Lawton Chiles and his Republican opponent, Jeb Bush, oppose casinos. Major donors to defeat the measure include the Walt Disney World Company, Universal Studios and small businesses that fear competition from casinos.
"The sense we get from our guests is that they are less likely to bring their families to a destination where there is gambling," said Jane Adams, a spokeswoman for Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista.
Experts say casinos would hurt the lottery and parimutuel wagering. But owners of some parimutuel operations say the ability to add gaming tables and slot machines could pull them out of a slump. W. Bennett Collett, whose Florida Gaming Corporation bought Fort Pierce Jai-Alai in St. Lucie County for $3 million in February, says the property is valued at $22 million with a casino.
"There's nothing really that compares to the casinos that would provide the spark this area needs for jobs and tax revenue," Mr. Collett said.
C. Patrick Roberts, a television executive who led anti-casino forces in 1986, when a measure failed by 2 to 1, says he changed his mind after seeing casinos spread and evolve into a "credible" industry in other states. He says he also realized that Indian tribes, which are separately trying to bring casinos to Florida through a lawsuit pending in the Federal courts, may eventually be allowed to operate casinos on their reservations.
Although opposition to casino gambling seems to have eroded over the years since similar referendums in 1986 and 1978, polls show strong support for the proposition only in Dade County and neighboring areas in South Florida.
Aboard the Discovery I, many gamblers say they would stay on land if casinos opened because of the convenience.
On land, says Joel Lubin, 57, "when a table is cold you can get up and leave."
"Here," he said, "you stay and play another $20."

GRAPHIC: Photo: If a ballot measure in Florida passes, gamblers could participate in casino gambling without boarding cruise ships like the Discovery I. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS GAMING (93%); CASINOS (92%); REFERENDUMS (91%); CRUISES (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); JAI ALAI (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HORSE RACING (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CONSERVATISM (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (61%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



755 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Black Women Graduates Outpace Male Counterparts

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
Among recent black college graduates, women now earn more than men, according to census figures, and some sociologists say that may be an economic disincentive to marriage.
In fact, black college-educated women have made such financial strides since 1980 that many now earn as much or more than white women with similar education and similar work experience. 
 The big wage gains for black professional women came in the 1980's as the salaries of white professional women rose slightly and those of black men eroded.
The wage figures, which account for inflation, are analyses of census data conducted for The New York Times by the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-supported research organization in Washington, and by Queens College of the City University of New York.
Among recent college graduates with one to five years on the job, black women earned an average wage of $11.41 an hour in 1991 while white women earned $11.38 an hour and black men $11.26, according to an analysis by Lawrence Mishel and Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute. White men earned $12.85 an hour.
The Queens College analysis found that the median income for college graduates 25 years old and younger was about $18,000 for white men, $17,000 for black women, $16,800 for white women and $16,400 for black men.
Proposed explanations for the disparity included racism, an unintended consequence of affirmative action programs -- employing a woman who is black meets two minority hiring goals -- and the fact that the pool of recent college graduates from which companies can recruit black employees includes more women than men.
The Economic Policy Institute's findings represented a reversal from 1979 when the average hourly wage among blacks who had recently graduated from college was $11.93 for men, in 1993 dollars, and $10.39 for women.
By 1989, the wage for men in that category had shrunk to $11.06, while the wage for the women had swelled to $11.70. Among blacks with only a high school education, the wages of men and women eroded in the 1980's; black men began the 1990's just barely ahead of white women.
While the gains by black women confirm the value of a college degree and the availability of jobs, some experts say that gain could discourage marriage within the black middle class because women often hesitate to marry men who earn less.
Compounding the problem for better-educated black women is that they significantly outnumber better-educated black men, and the gap in education and income is growing, said William Julius Wilson, the University of Chicago professor of sociology who produces the "black marriageable male index," a gauge of the deficit of employed black men available to marry black women.
The wage gap between college-educated black women and men was slight and it may close altogether as black men advance professionally. But while income differentials among blacks have traditionally been narrower than among whites, the latest shift defies the wage advantage generally enjoyed by men -- a shift that has persisted historically without regard to schooling or jobs, race or ethnicity.
Economists and sociologists say the disparity reflects setbacks by black men relative to both black women and whites. And in addition to discouraging marriage, they say, income disparity may encourage divorce in the black middle-class, although to a lesser degree than it does among lower economic groups in which a husband or prospective husband may have no income at all.
Dr. Lynn Burbridge, an economist at the Wellesley College Center for Research on Women, said: "The most successful black families, those that come anywhere close to parity with whites, are the two-earner, two-parent families. Will a woman feel less inclined to marry? There still are huge advantages to maximizing two incomes. But when you talk about individual people, will it create strains in a marriage? It probably will."
Daniela Ballard, a 26-year-old black New Yorker with two graduate degrees and a job in corporate finance, said that while income disparity might represent a disincentive for some women to marry, "in the black community there's less of a stigma if a woman marries a man who makes less than she does." Part of the reason, she said, is because it has not been unusual for women to have earned as much or more than men among lower-income groups.
Still, said Dr. Francisco L. Rivera-Batiz, director of the Institute for Urban and Minority Education at Teachers College at Columbia University, "marriage involves to some extent an economic component, and if the attraction of black males diminishes because of their lower earning power that should reduce the rate that black women would marry black men."
When Victor and Susan Bracey of Culver City, Calif., a black couple, married five years ago, she was working and he was in graduate school. Even after he earned his master's degree, her income grew faster.
"We both came out of college with high hopes and dreams -- we didn't know there'd be a discrepancy," Mrs. Bracey said. "But some of my friends who are not married have a fear of marrying someone who makes less than they do or doesn't have the same earnings potential. If they feel that way, they may never get married."
Mr. Bracey put the couple's situation this way: "My wife makes about twice what I make. I'm a commercial loan officer for Wells Fargo. She is director of finance for Fox. Eventually, I may catch up. But it's been easier for black women to go a lot farther than black men. Perhaps there's some unconscious racism -- companies can see the female side and then, perhaps, the black. Or, maybe there's a glass ceiling for black men."
Samuel M. Hall, director of the Career Services Office at the predominantly black Howard University in Washington, said, "For whatever the reason, black women are more acceptable than black men."
"I think a lot of it is the stereotypes about black men," Mr Hall said. "You have to remember who is doing the majority of the hiring, and if the hiring managers have that stereotype it's naive to believe that people up the line don't have it as well."
Mark A. Bishop, a senior personnel representative for Federal Express, said that the earnings disparity had less to do with stereotypes than with the fact that "there are simply more black females in the marketplace."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DEMOGRAPHICS -- Differing Wages: Male and Female" shows average hourly pay for college-educated white and black males and females. (Source: Lawrence Mishel and Jane Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BLACKS (IN US); WAGES AND SALARIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WOMEN; MARRIAGES WOMEN (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MEN (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CENSUS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (67%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM JARED BERNSTEIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



756 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: COMPTROLLER;
London Brings an Edge to the G.O.P. Ticket

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
Herbert London is a professor who speaks like a preacher, a high-volume conservative raised on a rigid code he jokingly calls Jewish Calvinism. He has more than a little edge in his manner, which comes through in forums like his appearance on a call-in show in Syracuse the other day on WHEN-AM radio, which concerned reducing taxes, trimming welfare and, most important, restoring dignity to "the forgotten New Yorker."
"You have this huge seductress called government," he barked into the microphone on a campaign swing through central New York. "People want the services but they don't want to pay the taxes. You can't run a society in that fashion. It creates the politics of resentment." 
 The appeal -- soaked in bile for big government and social spending -- to the middle and working class was the staple of Mr. London's driving but unsuccessful four-year run for governor. Now, he is the Republican candidate for comptroller -- a consolation spot with much less scope -- but his oratory is the same: New Yorkers' dreams have been destroyed by free-spending Democrats.
And yet, even as he attacks the Democrats, Mr. London has devised a campaign strategy that does not spare his own party. After pummeling the head of his ticket, State Senator George E. Pataki, last month for not releasing a detailed tax-cutting plan, he issued a blistering news release last week, calling for Mr. Pataki to "lead or get out of the way."
His outrage at the G.O.P. helped prompt the Staten Island Borough President, Guy V. Molinari, who is also Mr. Pataki's New York City campaign chairman, to say he will vote for Mr. London's opponent, H. Carl McCall, the Democrat who was named comptroller last year.
Beyond the internecine anger, Mr. London is finding his conservative beliefs, especially his opposition to abortion rights and further gun control, at the heart of Mr. McCall's strategy against him. And it has again raised a worry that some in his own party expressed as Mr. London chased hungrily after the nomination for governor: Is he too far to the right in a heavily Democratic state where even many Republicans lean to the center? He recently seemed caught in a net of his own making as he has faced criticism that he had exploited tensions between blacks and Jews in his campaign advertising and oratory.
When he talks about Mr. McCall, who is black and has a long record in support of Jewish causes, Mr. London often raises issues that might inflame Jewish voters: Most prominently, his campaign released to news organizations a television ad, not yet on the air, that asks the question, "Kill the Jews?" as it refutes what it says were lies Mr. McCall spread in his own rather strong attack ad.
Saying that Mr. McCall is the true extremist in the race, Mr. London, 55, says there is nothing extreme about his own views or tactics. So far, the two candidates are roughly even in the polls, with many voters still undecided.
Yet Mr. London, a tall and articulate man who was for 20 years the dean of the Gallatin Division at New York University, clearly feels vulnerable to the charges of Mr. McCall, who is outspending Mr. London 5 to 1. He has begun to promise that if elected, he would not impose any ideas on the state except his fiscal ones. He reminds anyone who asks that the job he is running for has little influence outside of investing state pension money and auditing state and local governments.
"I cannot offset the tremendous war chest of my rival Carl McCarl," he recently told supporters in the ballroom of the Hotel Syracuse. "But what I can do is rely on my friends to spread the word: I am not the devil incarnate. I am not here to create great despair in your lives. I am not about to change the way in which you conduct your personal lives."
Who Herbert London is, what he believes and why he is on the Republican ticket this year explains much about politics in New York State. In many ways, Mr. London is the ticket's token radical, an outsider who has forced his agenda on the party by his brains, perseverence and cultivation of a small but loyal political base.
Mr. London was born in Brooklyn, the grandson of Eastern European immigrants and the son of solid Democrats (his father was a Socialist for a time). Mr. London remembers growing up in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, and later in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens, with a closeness of community that he saw dissolve as he grew older. Specifically, he remembers that many of the people who moved into their neighborhood were on welfare.
"I always think about my dad because I think there are a lot of people like my father who could never understand why there were a growing number of people in our society who were feeding out of the public trough," said Mr. London, who is married and has three daughters. "He paid his taxes and never derived any benefits from government. That's why I refer to him as the quintessential forgotten New Yorker."
He graduated from Columbia College and after a brief career as a semi-pro basketball player and rock musician -- one of his 14 books is a history of rock 'n' roll -- he earned a doctorate from New York University, where be became a professor and dean and drifted toward conservative politics. He has over the years opposed abortion, even in cases of incest and rape; advocated eliminating the personal income tax; said there is too much gun control; argued for scaling back welfare and eliminating home relief for people who are able to work, and talked about experimenting with school vouchers.
He ran for New York City Mayor in 1989 and found an audience for his ideas the next year when he ran for Governor on the Conservative ticket, coming in a close third to the Republican candidate, Pierre A. Rinfret. In the four years since, he has traveled the state relentlessly, visiting all 62 counties and developing a following.
His grass-roots support in a state rocked by the recession made him a serious contender during the Republican convention in May, when he attacked Mr. Pataki by calling him "unelectable" and "Alfonse Pataki." Ultimately, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and other Republican leaders denied him the governor's slot but pushed him toward the comptroller job in order to avoid splitting the anti-Cuomo vote. He accepted, though he had earlier sworn he had no interest.
Mr. McCall has accused Mr. London of using the comptroller race as a stepping stone, but he insists it is the job he wants. He says he sees the role as ideal for insisting on lowering spending and cutting taxes. He says he wants to "inject himself" into the budget process, forcing responsible, on-time fiscal plans. He says he wants to re-evaluate government on all levels, including overlapping local governments.
"I think of the comptroller's office as a think tank," he said. "There is no reason why the comptroller can't use his office to come up with ideas that would allow municipalities and even the state government to consider ways of saving money.
"That doesn't mean it's going to be approved legislatively, but there is no reason why you can't use the office as a bully pulpit," he said. "I think it is fair to say the comptroller can be a catalyst."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	NEXT: A profile of Comptroller H. Carl McCall, the Democratic nominee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; COMPTROLLERS; ABORTION; GUN CONTROL; FIREARMS; ELECTION ISSUES CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); GUN CONTROL (85%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); FIREARMS (66%); ABORTION (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); 

PERSON: LONDON, HERBERT; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); FISHER, IAN HERBERT LONDON (98%); H CARL MCCALL (78%); GEORGE E PATAKI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



757 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Choices;
New York Congressional Races

 BODY:
Strong anti-incumbent sentiment and the struggle for control of the House of Representatives infuse this year's Congressional races in New York with unusual drama. Here are our recommendations in some of the livelier races in New York City and surrounding suburban districts.
First District (Suffolk County): George Hochbrueckner, the Democrat running for a fifth term in this two-to-one Republican district, is battling a strong Republican challenge from Michael Forbes, a former member of Senator Alfonse D'Amato's staff now on leave from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Forbes has an appealing, friendly style. But his opposition to abortion rights and his decision to sign Newt Gingrich's disingenuous "Contract With America" suggest that his manner is more moderate than his politics. Mr. Forbes says he would be more tenacious in getting jobs for a district hit hard by defense cuts. But it is difficult to see how he would be more effective than Mr. Hochbrueckner, a member of the Armed Services Committee, who has been working aggressively to promote civilian uses of military technology. Mr. Hochbrueckner earns our endorsement. 
 Fourth District (Nassau County): A quirk of fate and politics has given rise to a surprisingly competitive race. The Republican candidate is Daniel Frisa, a former Assemblyman and party maverick who won a bitter G.O.P. primary, defeating the incumbent freshman, David Levy. Mr. Levy remains on the Conservative line.
We warmly endorse the Democratic candidate, Philip Schiliro, a key aide to Representative Henry Waxman. A critic of Washington big-money politics, Mr. Schiliro nonetheless knows the ropes. He played a valuable role in forging the Clean Air Act and important health initiatives, including a Federal study of the link between Long Island's high rate of breast cancer and the environment.
Fifth District (Queens, Nassau and Suffolk): Republican candidate Grant Lally, a 32-year-old lawyer in his first try for elective office, is seeking to unseat the six-term Democrat, Gary Ackerman, with anti-incumbent rhetoric and positions that put him firmly in the Gingrich wing of his party. We support Mr. Ackerman, who has emerged as a constructive voice on foreign affairs while still tending effectively to local needs.
Fourteenth District (Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn): This race poses an agonizing choice between the Democratic freshman, Carolyn Maloney, and the progressive Republican challenger, City Councilmember Charles Millard. Mr. Millard has been an outstanding member of the Council and a sometimes lonely voice for fiscal restraint and common sense. If elected, he would exert a much-needed moderating influence on his party. But we are loath to lose Ms. Maloney, who has emphasized gun control and campaign finance reform in her promising first term. Mr. Millard's easy criticism of her vote for higher taxes as part of President Clinton's deficit reduction package underscores her willingness to cast a tough vote for the nation's good. In a close call, we endorse Ms. Maloney.
Eighteenth District (Westchester, the Bronx and Queens): The Democratic incumbent, Nita Lowey, faces Republican challenger Andrew Hartzell Jr., a conservative corporate attorney and signatory of the Gingrich contract. His vague promise to weed out government waste is no argument to unseat Ms. Lowey, a leader on women's health issues who took a courageous stand when she broke from fellow local Democrats to support Nafta.
Nineteenth District (Westchester): Sue Kelly, a former hospital-patient advocate and Republican fund-raiser, is running against the Democrat Hamilton Fish Jr. for the seat being vacated by Mr. Fish's Republican father. Ms. Kelly bills herself as a moderate Republican, yet she signed the Gingrich contract, dissenting only from its anti-abortion provisions. Mr. Fish has strong if somewhat eclectic credentials. He is an adviser to a human rights group, a producer of documentaries and a former publisher of The Nation. He understands the economic problems facing residents of the district. There has been a Hamilton Fish in Congress since the 1920's. We recommend that voters continue the tradition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GUN CONTROL (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SUBURBS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); ABORTION (54%); BREAST CANCER (51%); 

PERSON: HOCHBRUECKNER, GEORGE J (REPR); SCHILIRO, PHILIP; ACKERMAN, GARY L (REPR); MALONEY, CAROLYN B (REPR); LOWEY, NITA M (REPR); FISH, HAMILTON JR (REPR) CAROLYN MALONEY (78%); GARY L ACKERMAN (78%); BILL CLINTON (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); NITA M LOWEY (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



758 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Israel-Jordan Peace Will Help Palestinians

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The peace agreement signed this week between Jordan and Israel, despite Yasir Arafat's negative view of it, has a potential positive impact on the West Bank. 
 Until 1967 the West Bank was part of Jordan, and the majority of Jordanians today are of Palestinian origin. The establishment of peace will open the borders and make for frequent and easy travel between the West Bank and Jordan. The distance from Jericho, Mr. Arafat's seat of authority, to Amman is only 30 miles, about the same as from Jericho to either Nablus or Hebron, the two large cities in the West Bank.
Jordanian banks have long operated in the West Bank, and Jordanian money is used there. Jordanians will undoubtedly recognize major new business and commercial opportunities in the West Bank.
The strengthening of these relations is in Israel's interest. It will lend stability to the West Bank economy. It will help strengthen Palestinian leadership. Jobs in Jordan for Palestinians will provide an alternative to jobs in Israel.
It will also allow Israel to seal off the West Bank, permanently if necessary, to reduce terrorism without also creating excessive unemployment there. In essence, we can anticipate a more open border between the West Bank and Jordan than between the West Bank and Israel.
 
ARTHUR S. OBERMAYER
West Newton, Mass., Oct. 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); JORDAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; JORDAN; WEST BANK; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); JORDAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; TREATIES; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (51%); 

PERSON: OBERMAYER, ARTHUR S TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



759 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Limits on Welfare Won't Make Jobs Secure

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Oct. 24 front-page article reports that many women leave welfare for insecure low-wage jobs only to return to welfare when these jobs fall through. You state that the policy implications of these findings are "up for grabs." In fact, the implications are clear: current welfare reform proposals are misdirected and will harm many women struggling to support themselves and their children through low-wage jobs. 
 Job insecurity is increasing, and low-wage workers are the most vulnerable. They are the first to be laid off and often have inflexible work schedules. Sensible social policy would bolster the safety net to insure that all Americans could rely on decent income support when they are unemployed. Instead, lawmakers in Washington are competing to see who can propose the most draconian limitations on welfare.
Meanwhile, states have cut welfare benefits to the lowest level in 20 years, so that the value of the benefits plus food stamps averages only $7,740 a year for a family of three, 62 percent of the Federal poverty line. These benefit levels virtually guarantee that when families cycle out of work and onto welfare they will be thrown into financial crises that will make returning to work more difficult.
Lifetime limits on welfare will not make low-wage jobs more secure. They will only hurt the large numbers of families who intermittently fall back on welfare when they lose their jobs.
 
CHRISTOPHER LAMB
Staff Attorney, Center on
Social Welfare Policy and Law
New York, Oct. 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; WELFARE (US); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); 

PERSON: FIGART, DEBORAH M

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



760 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Pie In the Sky

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate challenging Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, was asked in one of their debates what his position was on health care.
"I want universal coverage," he replied. And, he said, Americans should be able to move without losing their insurance and should not be excluded because of pre-existing medical conditions. 
 "But I am not in favor of a program that adds to our taxes or deficit," he said, adding that he also opposed employer mandates.
In other words, he favored covering the 39 million Americans who are not now insured and guaranteeing lifetime coverage for everyone -- all without costing the taxpayers or anyone else a penny.
Offering voters a free lunch is a familiar tactic in American politics, but it has never been used more brazenly than in this Congressional election. Mr. Romney is by no means an extreme example.
Newt Gingrich, the putative Speaker-to-be, set the tone with the "contract" that he had Republican candidates for the House flourish. They undertook to cut taxes, increase defense spending -- and pass a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget. Contractual voodoo.
The distinctive feature of this year's free-lunch campaign is that it is accompanied by a heavy dose of hate. Republicans are trying, evidently with a good deal of success, to tap into the public's anger at politicians and government itself.
The anti-government message has been carried to its logical conclusion by Michael Huffington, who opposes Senator Dianne Feinstein in California. Tasked with not doing much in his one term in the House, Mr. Huffington said he was proud of that:
"I did not go to Washington to pass a lot of new legislation. For the past 200 years, that's all they have been doing."
(We are indebted to Linda Douglass of the "CBS Evening News" for her report that preserved Mr. Huffington's words for history.)
The 1994 campaign, nasty and vacuous at the same time, raises puzzling questions. Why are the voters so angry? Why is it a successful tactic for candidates to denounce Washington and all its works while promising to go there and deliver something for nothing?
The best answer I have seen comes from abroad. It is in the current issue of The Economist of London, in a leading article headed, "Voters, blame thyselves."
America is not in the terrible state that public anger would suggest, The Economist says. Crime rates are actually falling. "Census figures show that Americans on average are healthier and better educated than ever before and that, even allowing for inflation, disposable income is rising. Indeed, the economy is roaring away." Then why the angst?
"The reason seems to be that Americans, despite their patent good fortune when compared with most other people, feel deeply insecure. The job market is changing in swift and unpredictable ways, ways they are often not equipped for. They are no longer sure that even two incomes can maintain their standard of living. Many of them, because of the recent messy death of health-care reform, must still dread the expense of falling ill."
But there is more: a paradox that I think The Economist correctly identifies as a key to the current American mood.
"Americans rail against their Government's weakness, paralysis, venality, profligacy. Yet it is citizens who give their money and time to insure that no changes can be made that are at the expense of their subsidy, their Social Security check, their tax break; it is mostly the voters' money that bribes the politicians; it is voters who insist that more needs to be done, but with lower taxes and without killing any existing programs.
"It is not, in other words, the work of some unholy Messrs. Big. It is the result of actions by ordinary voters, organized in their associations of pensioners, miners, farmers and thousands more."
Yes, the Government we have is the one we asked for. If we are ashamed of our creation, self-examination would be a wiser remedy than anger. At the least we should be prepared to answer the political con artists as in the old song:
"There'll be pie in the sky by and by."
"It's a lie."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; VOTER BEHAVIOR US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); CRIME RATES (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (66%); CENSUS (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY MITT ROMNEY (90%); TED KENNEDY (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



761 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Glory of Competition

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
How can the government best help propel us along the information superhighway?
In most of us, that question induces an instant MEGO (my eyes glaze over). I recall a moment in the Nixon White House when Diane Sawyer and I were earnestly briefing Ron Ziegler on an arcane point likely to generate questions after an economic speech; the press secretary absorbed all he could and finally said: "Stop. Any new fact you tell me now means I'll forget something else." 
 In the same way, I am now convinced that if I figure out how to program my wireless telephone -- on top of learning to force my computer to italicize at a keystroke -- I will forget how to tickle my video recorder into snatching a movie scheduled for 4 A.M. on cable.
This surrender to saturation is not the charming helplessness of the determinedly old-fashioned; it is the revolt of the brain against the high life of the mind. The Nineties Boggle becomes more frenetic in the clash of giant telecommunications corporations gorging one another, to compete with other mergers -- of fiber-optic cable, dishy wireless and billionaire media "content providers."
Which technology, and which convergence, will offer the consumer the cheapest and easiest way to be constantly in touch with whatever happens anywhere? Wouldn't it be great if the government could choose the best system and then let the private companies compete?
No, it would not be great. Intrusion in the name of efficiency would be a disaster, and -- at the end of the great day -- inefficient and stultifying.
Something simple and significant underlies our decision about how to ride the communications revolution. Two political ideas are competing in the post-cold-war world. One stresses order; the other stresses freedom.
Take Singapore, where an American teen-ager was savagely beaten on a graffiti charge and an American professor was recently threatened with jail for criticizing the regime. In that plastic nation, order is all.
International banks and authoritarians everywhere lap up the strictness undergirding the seemingly capitalist system. In China, the "Singapore model" is hailed as the justification for continued suppression of human rights even as Beijing slips out of the economic straitjacket of Communism. That model is anti-democratic capitalism accompanied by heavy moralizing.
"In Singapore," says Reed Hundt, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, "you can expect a single, regulated communications system. We don't believe in that. We say -- let the government referee, but let the players play."
In democratic capitalism, the main job of government regulators and trustbusters is to enforce the opportunity for competition, denying biggies the edge of exclusive dealing or discriminatory pricing. Monopoly, sometimes protected in the past, will be treated as unnatural in the future. Licenses to use public property will be fairly auctioned, not handed to political favorites.
Because competition is a democratic value, it's good for local and national phone networks to invade one another's turf; it's good for cable companies to provide telephone service and the phonies to deliver pictures on their wires; it's good for wireless, satellite and broadcast networks to try to beat the phone companies' brains out.
In that way, consumers, not bureaucrats, will decide which systems suit us best. Risk-taking investors, not budgeteers, will channel money into the most efficient carriers.
This will result in a glorious mess. Asian Mussolinis will snicker at our sweet disorder as we lust after the way to deliver a pure signal along with a piping-hot pizza.
But there are advantages: innovation will be nourished, costs will be lowered and diversity will be celebrated. Geniuses and jerks will have their own channels and forums, while all the separate systems will have a way to unify us as a nation in a crisis.
Above all, the disorderly competition of "the American model" makes it much harder for some would-be ruler to control the people. Our example stands in contrast to all that the leaders of China admire in ultra-orderly Singapore. That's because our approach to the communications future centers on one person's freedom to control his or her own life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (87%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (83%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (70%); COLD WAR (68%); FIBER OPTICS (67%); GRAFFITI (61%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM RICHARD NIXON (72%); DIANE SAWYER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



762 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Limits on Welfare Won't Make Jobs Secure;
Equal Work, Equal Pay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your article on the working patterns of women on welfare (front page, Oct. 24) overlooks some other pioneering work on welfare mothers as well as some possible employment policies to make work pay. 
 While the Urban Institute's research that you cite about cycling on and off the welfare rolls is notable, in 1992 the Washington-based Institute for Women's Policy Research submitted a report to the Ford Foundation about combining work and welfare. It found that roughly 40 percent of women on welfare have worked some time over a two-year period. Of these, about half were "cyclers," going on and off welfare, while half combined work with welfare.
Every time there is a discussion of possible wage subsidies to provide better-paying jobs, as there is in your article, it is assumed that government should provide those subsidies. Research has found that most women among the working poor are employed in low-wage, female-dominated occupations, and the public sector is already subsidizing employers who supply such jobs in the form of food stamps, earned-income tax credits and other programs.
Instead, why not legislate equal pay for work of equal value, effectively reducing the negative wage penalty associated with jobs that employ high concentrations of poor women? In a separate study, we have estimated that comparable worth would reduce the number of women among the working poor by as much as 40 percent, a more effective route to real economic independence.
 
DEBORAH M. FIGART
JUNE LAPIDUS
Ypsilanti, Mich., Oct. 24, 1994
 
The writers are, respectively, associate professor of economics, Eastern Michigan U., and assistant professor of economics, Roosevelt U.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WOMEN; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); WOMEN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: LAMB, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994



763 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Wishes for Prosperous North Korea

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Selig S. Harrison argues in "Beware the Hawks in Seoul" (Op-Ed, Oct. 21) that the defect in President Clinton's agreement with North Korea about nuclear nonproliferation is the South Korean Government. 
 His one-dimensional view of the Seoul administration is that it is the creature of hard-liners and intelligence agencies that want to undermine the United States compromise with Pyongyang so as to insure an economic collapse of the North.
This flies in the face of the realities on the Korean peninsula. Rather than seeking a "collapsist" scenario for the Communist regime, South Korean politicians, military leaders, business interests and citizens want its gradual economic transformation along the lines of southern China.
Otherwise, the South will confront a nightmare scenario of masses of North Korean refugees streaming onto its lands in search of food and work, a massive human tragedy and environmental problems if one of Pyongyang's reactors fails, and an economic bailout of the impoverished economy that would make the West German rebuilding of East Germany seem a Sunday outing. Such an outcome might well bring down a South Korean government.
Moreover, South Korean companies want to do business in the North, and they exert pressure on Seoul to seek entry there. South Koreans want to make contact with Northern relatives. And the Kim Young Sam Government wants to avoid a conflict with the North, as any sudden North Korean collapse would inflict heavy damage on the Seoul administration.
 
THOMAS H. HENRIKSEN
Stanford, Calif., Oct. 24, 1994
 
The writer is associate director and senior fellow, Hoover Institution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (86%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (74%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH KOREAN COS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (86%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (74%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); REFUGEES (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (56%); 

PERSON: HARRISON, SELIG S; HENRIKSEN, THOMAS H; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994

 
