

201 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: A Push to Change Buying for Television

BYLINE: By Nat Ives

 BODY:
The two largest advertising industry associations are joining forces to lobby for changes in the process marketers use to buy billions of dollars in commercial time ahead of the fall television season in what is known as the upfront market.
 Complaints about the process, during which the TV networks sell as much as 80 percent of commercial time before the season starts, have increased as the prices the networks charged rose faster than inflation and the selling became more concentrated in a frenzied week or two of deal making. 
 Advertisers and agencies also say they are unhappy that the upfront market begins in the spring, months before they complete marketing plans for the year.
 The Association of National Advertisers in New York, which first broached the idea of changes at a conference last month, said yesterday that the American Association of Advertising Agencies in New York would join it in forming a committee called the Network Upfront Discussion Group.
 Robert D. Liodice, president and chief executive of the advertiser association, said the committee, which is to meet April 29, would focus on proposals in two areas -- limiting deal making to scheduled daytime hours by introducing a ''closing bell'' and changing when the negotiations take place. One proposal calls for shifting the market to the fall, he added, while another suggests having two markets, in spring and fall.
 The associations will invite to the meeting the executives from the broadcast and cable networks that sell time in the upfront market, Mr. Liodice said. 
 At the conference last month, several network executives said they would consider proposals if they were brought to them by both advertisers and agencies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (97%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Television; Advertising and Marketing; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Television

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (83%) Assn of National Advertisers; American Assn of Advertising Agencies

PERSON: Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



202 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4632 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

''ABOUT TIME: 700 YEARS OF EUROPEAN PAINTING,'' Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, permanent installation. After three years in storage the museum's European painting collection is back on view. Brooklyn owns some classy material, from Renaissance altarpieces to a clutch of smashing Monets. In this reinstallation works from various periods have been linked with the theme of time, a good idea. The refurbished Beaux-Arts Court, with its large skylight, presents problems as an exhibition space, namely the glare bouncing off Plexiglas-covered paintings. An exquisite small installation of early Italian painting from the collection is on the fifth floor. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; students and 62+, $3 (Holland Cotter).

* ''ARCADIA AND METROPOLIS: MASTERWORKS OF GERMAN EXPRESSIONISM FROM THE NATIONALGALERIE BERLIN,'' Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, through June 7. In 1937 the Nazis seized a large collection of Expressionist works from the Kronprinzen Palace in Berlin, Germany's first museum of contemporary art. But this branch of Berlin's Nationalgalerie has made great strides in restoring what was the heart of its collection. This show of some 40 works by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Emil Nolde, Max Beckmann, George Grosz, Otto Dix, Hannah Hoch, Paula Modersohn-Becker and others touches on the history of German modern art -- Expressionism, Dadaism, Neue Sachlichkeit -- from around 1910 through the post-World War I period. Its title is drawn from the early preference of the Expressionists for rural places versus their later attraction to the city. One of the show's great ''Metropolis'' paintings is Kirchner's large ''Potsdamer Platz'' (1914); in the ''Arcadia'' mode is Modersohn-Becker's ''Kneeling Mother With Child'' (1907). Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* ''A BEAUTIFUL AND GRACIOUS MANNER: THE ART OF PARMIGIANINO,'' Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, through April 18. The short-lived Parmigianino (1503-1540), a Mannerist prodigy of mercurial temperament, was as spectacular a draftsman as almost anyone ever. His best work is tender and fetishistically erotic. The show is not spectacular, exactly, although beautiful art is beautiful art. Including prints and a few paintings, the Frick's display is medium size, serious and just a little dry. But it picks up momentum. By the end Parmigianino invented his own obscure universe, a hothouse art of long-necked women and frigid perfection. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays, 10 a.m to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; students, $5; 62+, $8 (Michael Kimmelman).

* ''BOCCIONI'S MATERIA: A FUTURIST MASTERPIECE AND THE AVANT-GARDE IN MILAN AND PARIS,'' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, through May 9. The Italian Futurist Umberto Boccioni's view of his mother as she sat before her apartment window was far from conventional. Her broken-up face is done in a distinctly Cubist style, her enormous folded hands are given frontal prominence, and the Futurist concept of simultaneity makes street activity almost part of her personage. The painting ''Materia'' is the centerpiece of this ambitious show, which studies Boccioni's work in relation to that of some European contemporaries, among them Braque, Delaunay, Duchamp, Gris and Picasso. The indebtedness of Italian Futurism to French Cubism and their rivalries are also addressed. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Fridays until 8 p.m. Admission: $15; students and 65+, $10 (Glueck).

* ''BYZANTIUM: FAITH AND POWER (1261-1557),'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through July 4. This vast and humblingly beautiful show about the waning centuries of the Byzantine empire reminds us that political decay does does not necessarily mean artistic decline. Full of amazing exotica -- manuscripts, miniature mosaics, textiles, drawings, paintings -- the exhibition ends with a room of great Northern Renaissance art indebted to icons that proves Byzantium's continued reach. People who are not Eastern Orthodox believers can enjoy the earthly pleasures of aesthetic spectacle linked with historical enlightenment. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $7 (Kimmelman).

* ''CHUCK CLOSE PRINTS: PROCESS AND COLLABORATION,'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through April 18. For anybody curious about how art is made, this exhibition is a model of eloquent didactics, including a few tools of the printing trade, which are themselves riveting. The prints are on a par with Mr. Close's paintings, from which they are inseparable. As a printmaker Mr. Close is a process artist. The best prints, which like all complicated prints are collaborations with printmakers, reveal these processes like so many bricks that make up a building, inconsequential by themselves but together greater than the sum of the parts. You may also think of Mr. Close as the architect of his prints. Call these prints Mr. Close's dream houses. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

* ''GLASS AND GLAMOUR: STEUBEN'S MODERN MOMENT, 1930-1960,'' Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, through April 25. Saluting the 100th anniversary of Steuben Glass, this show represents an era when the company went all out for Modernism in its high-end products, turning out elegantly contemporary and flawlessly executed ornamental, table and bar ware. Clean design, the use of biomorphic and abstract shapes, a revolutionary formula said to produce the world's purest lead crystal: these are hallmarks of the nearly 200 Steuben objects here. In 1937 the company persuaded some world-famous artists, among them Henri Matisse, Isamu Noguchi, Giorgio di Chirico and Georgia O'Keeffe, to create designs, although the results were not always salutary. The best pieces are the unfussy, classically elegant Steuben designs that make their point as vessels without unnecessary embellishment. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $7; children, students and 62+, $4 (Glueck).

* ''HOME SEWN: THREE CENTURIES OF STITCHING HISTORY,'' New-York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, through April 18. Now a hip hobby, home sewing was a household necessity before factory-made clothes, and it is brilliantly saluted in this elaborate show. Devoted to the social and cultural history of sewing, it starts in the 18th century and runs to the 21st, reporting on a resurgence in long-neglected needlework skills. From quilts, samplers and lowly potholders to gowns, graduation dresses and embroidered denim jackets, this bounteous display touches on every home sewing project you can think of and is a show even nonsewers can enjoy. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $3 for students and 65+ (Glueck).

''MAGNUM'S NEW YORKERS,'' Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, near 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, through Sept. 6. Photojournalists represented by the renowned Magnum Photos agency present a panoramic, collective portrait of the people of New York City. Among the 130 pictures, dating from the late 1940's to 2002, are works by luminaries like Robert Capa, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Bruce Davidson and Susan Meiselas. Boys jumping into the East River, James Dean walking through Times Square, a sprawling family picnicking in Central Park, teenage gangsters in 1950's Coney Island and a man in a maid's outfit in a private club for sadomasochists: these and many other images tell a familiar, intermittently gripping story about the city's human diversity. Hours and admission: See above (Ken Johnson).

* ''MOMA AT EL MUSEO: LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN ART FROM THE COLLECTION OF THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART,'' El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 831-7272, through July 25. The first broad-scale exposure of the Modern's extensive holdings from Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America, the 150 or so objects here are a small selection from the more than 2,000 it owns. But they form an arresting show, from the powerful Surrealist-
influenced ''Jungle'' (1943) by the Cuban artist Wilfredo Lam to an untitled 1995 sculpture by the Colombian Doris Salcedo that invokes the political violence in her country. The sardonic humor of Marisol (Venezuela) and Fernando Botero (Colombia); the geometric tweakings of Jesus Rafael Soto and Gertrude Goldschmidt (Venezuela); the Conceptual hatchings of Felix Gonzalez-Torres (Cuba) and Cildo Meireles (Brazil), among others, remind us of the artistic richness south of the border. This show joins the strength of the Modern's resources with the growing importance of El Museo as a showcase and stronghold of Latino culture. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Thursdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $7; students and 65+, $5 (Glueck).

* ''ROTH TIME: A DIETER ROTH RETROSPECTIVE,'' Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400, and P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, through June 7. This exhaustive, exhausting but ultimately astounding exhibition offers total immersion in the art of the German-born, Swiss-based multimedia dynamo Dieter Roth (1930-1998), who not only erased the line between art and life, but also fused them into a single insoluble entity. With nearly 400 works of painting, drawing, prints, sculpture, assemblage, collage, music, poetry, film, photography, video and sound, and using every imaginable kind of found object or material -- foodstuffs included -- the exhibition moves through 50 years of incessant, obsessive art-making with remarkable clarity. It culminates in a presentation of five enormous installation pieces at the Modern's little-sister institution, P.S. 1, which reveal a seemingly boundless universe of artistic activity and a radically new picture of an artist at work. MoMA Queens hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays to 7:45 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $8.50. P.S. 1 hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $2 (Roberta Smith).

* ''SINGULAR FORMS (SOMETIMES REPEATED): ART FROM 1951 TO THE PRESENT,'' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street, (212) 423-3500, through May 19. A lavish, mostly in-house display of Minimal art and its progeny. Along with the requisite examples by standard-bearers (Donald Judd, Dan Flavin, Robert Ryman) and a few by predecessors (Robert Rauschenberg, Ad Reinhardt), it features post-1960's works by a range of artists including Gerhard Richter, Charles Ray, Robert Gober, Liam Gillick, Sherrie Levine, Rachel Whiteread and Damian Hirst. Ultimately, Minimalism doesn't describe everything here. The show is a hodgepodge. But it's a stimulating hodgepodge, and it looks great in Wright's building. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

* ''TOOLS OF HER MINISTRY: THE ART OF SISTER GERTRUDE MORGAN,'' American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, through Sept. 26. If you wonder what it really means to say that art is a calling, see this ethereal show. A self-appointed prophet and street preacher, Sister Morgan was called by God to paint in the 1950's. Untutored but full of an uncanny grace, her vivid, high-key works have a plain-spoken ecstasy and inborn eloquence, both formal and literary, which can lift the soul. The mix of text and image relates to many modern artists and poets, none of whom she ever heard of or cared about. Her pictures are talismans of mystical devotion derived from inner necessity, conceived as teaching tools for lost souls. In heaven works like these would be eternally before our eyes. The world not being heaven, this is your opportunity to see them. The day has come, as Sister Morgan might say. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Fridays until 7:30 p.m. Admission: $9; $7, students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

* WHITNEY BIENNIAL, Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, through May 30. Easily the best biennial in a long time. The spirit is upbeat and ingratiating -- almost polite -- on the surface at least, with a utopian streak and a youth-heavy emphasis on gloss and craft. There's plenty of painting and drawing, ratifying the much-hyped trend, and multigenerational work, stressing ecstatic engagement and meticulousness. But the real story is the stress on the handmade in general, on materiality in whatever medium -- a change from the politics-heavy, slacker installations of recent years. The cross-generational dialogue is an interesting subtext. Among the younger set utopia does not mean 1960's-style radicalism; it implies something unattainable, except perhaps in a hand-me-down form, and therefore smaller and inherently poignant. Look for a few standout works from artists both younger and older, including Yayoi Kusama, Alec Soth, Catherine Opie, Julie Mehretu, Jim Hodges, Eve Sussman, Raymond Pettibon, Slater Bradley, Robert Mangold and Stan Brakhage, who died last year. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 62+, $9.50 (Kimmelman).

Galleries: Uptown

JAMES GRASHOW, ''Cardbirds,'' Allan Stone, 113 East 90th Street, (212) 987-4997, through April 24. A graphic artist and sculptor, known for his quirky humor and ingenious craftsmanship, presents life-size birds made of myriad little pieces of corrugated cardboard. Based on drawings by John James Audubon, some are painted and some left natural brown. With every feather individually cut from ribbed paper material, the spectacular ''Corrugated Crane'' stands seven feet tall over a small plot of wild flowers, which are also realized in cardboard with a naturalist's eye for detail (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

* GEORGE AULT, Zabriskie, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 752-1223, through April 24. Fans of this American Precisionist will be gratified by this quietly stirring show of paintings and drawings from Ault's middle years, the 1920's and 30's. It includes an especially beautiful painting of an orange farmhouse on a green lawn, under a blue sky and wispy clouds, which is almost medieval in its pristine distillation. With its impenetrably dark windows and raking shadows, it exudes as well a Hopperesque lonesomeness and a dreamy, de Chiricoesque mystery (Johnson).

LOS CARPINTEROS, ''Downtown,'' Anthony Grant, 37 West 57th Street, (212) 755-0434, through April 17. This three-member art-making team, based in Havana, toys with elements of Modernist art and design to slyly subversive effect. Its expertly constructed wooden chests of drawers made to resemble International Style office buildings satirize utopian bureaucracy. Large, skillfully painted watercolors play with Surrealistic illusions, as in the image of giant water drops with hardwood-floor surfaces, or with visual-verbal tensions, as in a picture of industrial spools of thread in various shades of drab green called ''Camouflage'' (Johnson).

ANDREA MODICA, ''Barbara, Treadwell, 1986-2001,'' Edwynn Houk, 754 Fifth Avenue, (212) 750-7070, through April 17. The star of Ms. Modica's memorable photographic ode to the rural upstate New York town of Treadwell is a strangely lovely, overweight girl named Barbara, who died in 2001 of diabetes. In this affecting selection of pictures taken over a 15-year period, she appears near and far, indoors and out, in moods from dreamy to ecstatic. In more recent close-ups, which turn her into a ghostly endomorphic blur, you miss a magical charisma that the earlier pictures caught with delicate lucidity (Johnson).

RAY PARKER AND GEORGE SUGARMAN, Washburn, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-6780, through April 17. These two shows make an exuberant pairing, with the artists sharing an intense interest in bright, jazzy abstract color arrangements, expressed on canvas by Parker and in sculpture by Sugarman. In his lyrical Color Field paintings Parker (1922-1990) floats hard-edged shapes and squiggly, fat lines of differing colors on vibrant monochrome planes. The painted aluminum sculptures by Sugarman (1912-1999) are made of flat ribbons and planes, cut out and twisted into complex, elegant shapes; their color combinations dazzle (Glueck).

Galleries: Chelsea

BRIAN ALFRED, ''Overload,'' Max Protetch, 511 West 22nd Street, (212) 633-6999, through April 24. Can old-fashioned painting capture a contemporary world shaped as much by invisible electronic and digital processes of communication and commerce as by tangible facts? In his strangely calm, neo-Precisionist paintings of color-coded computer wiring, basement duct work, rooftop cellphone relays and a vast cityscape -- as well as in an absorbing animated video projection -- Mr. Alfred responds mournfully, fearfully and euphorically to the technological sublime (Johnson).

JEFF BRIDGES, ''Pictures,'' Ariel Meyerowitz, 120 11th Avenue, at 20th Street, (212) 414-2770, through April 24. Mr. Bridges, the actor, has been making photographs for 25 years. His black-and-white panoramic pictures of moments on the sets of movies like ''The Fabulous Baker Boys,'' ''The Big Lebowski'' and ''Seabiscuit'' have a seductive, grainy atmosphere. Intriguing narrative complexities arise from contrasts of cinematic fantasy and technical reality, and from the presence of luminaries like Michelle Pfeiffer, Barbra Streisand and Francis Ford Coppola (Johnson).

ANN CRAVEN, Gasser & Grunert, 524 West 19th Street, (212) 807-9494, through April 17. If this exhibition gives you a sense of deja vu, it is because every picture in it is a copy of one from the artist's previous show at this gallery. Whatever the import of this conceptual gambit, or of the irony animating Ms. Craven's treacly images of canaries, parrots and other sweetly ornamental birds, it would be a less interesting production without her exuberant, hedonistic way with color, big scale and painterly gesture (Johnson).

* THOMAS DEMAND, 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121, through April 17. Thomas Demand's big color photographs of a dense forest interior and an Apollo space travel simulator -- things that look real but turn out to be carefully constructed of paper, plastic and other inexpensive materials -- are as visually magical and philosophically provocative as ever. A film loop showing a paper tape recorder, which seems to be playing a remix of a lost Beach Boys composition, is mournfully funny (Johnson).

NOH SANG-KYOON, Bryce Wolkowitz, 601 West 26th Street, (212) 243-8830, through April 17. Korea's representative to the 1999 Venice Biennale, Mr. Noh specializes in covering surfaces with sequins and small, pearlescent plastic discs. This exhibition includes works on canvas, like a hypnotically lush seven-foot square densely covered by concentric rings of deep blue sequins, and a series of sculptures of the Buddha also covered in sequins, which create tension between the spiritual and the sensuous (Johnson).

PATRICIA PICCININI, Robert Miller, 524 West 26th Street, (212) 366-4774, through April 24. Introducing Australia's representative at last year's Venice Biennale, this show features a hyper-realistic representation of a monstrous simian creature with leathery scales on its back and horns coming out of its chin; it is perched in a leather-upholstered abstract tree. In another vein, smooth boulder-shaped objects called ''Car Nuggets'' and grids of molded plastic modules, both with custom-car finishes, playfully wed Modernist abstraction and consumer fetishism (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

SANDRA LERNER, ''Mystic Realms,'' June Kelly, 591 Broadway, near Houston Street, (212) 226-1660, through April 20. A painter who had her first New York solo show in 1969 presents easel-size paintings marked by crusty surfaces, confectionery colors and Rothkoesque light. The symmetrical compositions are punctuated by transcendentally suggestive symbols (Johnson).

Galleries: Downtown

ROY LICHTENSTEIN, City Hall, City Hall Park and the Tweed Courthouse, Lower Manhattan, through October. Rising five stories under the octagonal skylight of the Tweed Courthouse's fabulous Italianate rotunda, Lichtenstein's clunky tower of giant cartoon brush strokes is an impressive sight, the centerpiece of a Public Art Fund installation of four sculptures in and around City Hall. Its sly commentary on Modernist myths of freedom and spontaneity is enhanced by its insertion at the core of New York City's bureaucratic control center. You can't just spontaneously walk in to see it, though. Call 311 to sign up for a Friday-only tour (Johnson).

Other Galleries

JANE FINE, ''After Sugar Time,'' Pierogi, 177 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-2144, through April 19. To produce her infectiously playful paintings, Ms. Fine pours incompletely mixed paint over spare, gridded compositions on smooth plywood panels. Using black marking pens, she adds graphic cartoon marks that transform the raw, woozily striated puddles of paint into zany landscapes of war -- like those an elementary school boy might draw, with fortresses, tanks and fighter planes (Johnson).

JOSHUA STERN, ''Shouts and Murmurs,'' Parker's Box, 193 Grand Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 388-2882, through April 18. For his deadpan parodies of Vermeer paintings, Mr. Stern first constructs doll-house scale 17th-century Dutch-style interiors and populates them with rudimentary little figures made from short dowels joined by metal hooks. Then he makes shadowy black-and-white photographs in which watery light streams in through the windows or radiates from real burning candles. Whether sitting pensively, playing the virginal or making love on a tabletop, his featureless wooden people are oddly and touchingly lifelike (Johnson).

* ''THREADS OF FAITH: RECENT WORK FROM THE WOMEN OF COLOR QUILTERS NETWORK,'' Gallery at the American Bible Society, 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street, (212) 408-1500, through April 17. The spirit of Harriet Powers (1837-1911), a freed slave who expressed her deep religious convictions in masterpiece quilts, presides over this jamboree of 53 contemporary stitchings by African-American women (and one man). Many are trained artists and artisans. And though they are generally linked by Christian beliefs, their religious convictions are not always simple. Their wide-ranging subject matter ranges from biblical narrative to national disaster; their modes range from ultrarealist to abstract, their moods from playful to spiritual. It's a truly vivacious show (Glueck).

Last Chance

* ''FOCUS ON THE SOUL: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF LOTTE JACOBI,'' Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, through Sunday. The heady spirit of the Weimar Republic lives in the photographs of Lotte Jacobi (1896-1990), whose portraits of Lotte Lenya, Kurt Weill, Peter Lorre, Emil Jannings and other bright lights from the pre-Hitler period shine in this show of some 80 works. Scenes from plays, dance performances and other Weimar cultural events accompany them. In Russia in the 1930's she took lively pictures of ethnic people and lifestyles; in the United States her notable subjects included Albert Einstein, Eleanor Roosevelt, Alfred Stieglitz and Paul Robeson. Later she explored the technique of photogenics and photographed natural phenomena. Her most interesting work is from the Weimar period, but there is much else here to reward the viewer. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Thursdays until 8 p.m., Fridays until 3 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 65+, $7.50 (Glueck)

ILYA AND EMILIA KABAKOV, ''The Empty Museum,'' SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through Sunday. Though less labor-intensive than previous work by the Kabakovs, this spacious simulation of a 19th-century picture gallery is still mysteriously and mournfully affecting. There are no paintings on the brick-red walls, only pools of light cast by spotlights, accompanied by funereal organ music by Bach played at considerable volume. Massive, double-sided black cushioned benches are provided for visitors to meditate on the losses of modernity (Johnson).

JUNE LEAF, ''Drawings: Past and Present,'' Edward Thorp, 210 11th Avenue, near 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 691-6565, through tomorrow. Though Ms. Leaf draws with virtuoso skill, she has never committed to one readily recognizable style. And while she has always focused on humanist themes in her paintings and sculpture, her enigmatic ways with narrative and symbolism tend to discourage critical sound bites. But whether primitivistic, surrealistic, expressionistic or funky, the drawings in this six-decade retrospective fuse the sensuous and the imaginative to consistently compelling effect (Johnson).

* ''TEMPTATION, JOY AND SCANDAL: FRAGRANCE AND FASHION 1900-1950'' AND ''FASHIONING THE MODERN WOMAN: THE ART OF THE COUTURIERE, 1919-1939,'' Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology, Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 217-7000, through tomorrow. These sparkling, beautifully dovetailing exhibitions illuminate the glamorous party that took Paris from the end of World War I to the beginning of World War II, and also hastened the birth of the designer brand market. The social elite of this moment dressed well and smelled better; their sartorial needs were met by an unusually talented cluster of modern-minded couture designers -- predominantly women -- and many began to create and market their own perfumes in the early 1920's. Between-the-wars oblivion mingles with a liberating sense of innovation and progress in these displays of radically simplified, if often luxurious garments, mingling with building-like Art Deco bottles. The connecting link is newness and what might be called intimate architecture (Smith).

* CHEYNEY THOMPSON, Andrew Kreps, 516A West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849, through April 10. Cheyney Thompson's very good show includes an installation of more than 100 paintings hung salon-style on three walls. Most are images of materials used in building construction: 2-by-4 planks, sheets of chipboard and drywall, stacked bricks. Each image is realistically rendered to produce a trompe l'oeil effect of recession in depth toward a shared vanishing point. A few other elements, including a painted photograph of a young man in a military uniform, add a suggestion of narrative content, as does a bunkerlike sculpture made from piled sandbags. The bunker may mark the spot on which a building has been blown apart, or from which one can watch its pieces come together. Either way the installation is a smart study in construction minus logic, an impulse behind some interesting new art today (Cotter).


GRAPHIC: Photos: A large detail from ''Woodstock Road'' (1940) by George Ault, on view in a show of his work at the Zabriskie Gallery on 57th Street. (Photo by Zabriskie Gallery)
 Detail from a two-sided icon in ''Byzantium'' at the Metropolitan. (Photo by Icon Gallery-Ohrid, FYR-Macedonia) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); WORLD WAR I (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (72%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



203 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Population Grew For 2nd Year, Census Data Show

BYLINE: By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
New York City's population grew for a second straight year after 9/11, according to estimates released yesterday by the Census Bureau, dispelling theories that it might decrease because of the recession or fears of another terrorist attack.
 Manhattan was responsible for much of the growth, adding 9,364 new residents from July 2002 through June 2003. 
 Last year, the Census Bureau initially estimated that 12,000 fewer people moved to Manhattan from July 2001 through June 2002 than had come to the city during the same period a year earlier. But the bureau later revised that number to reflect an increase of 1,273 people. 
 Demographers and economists say that the instability of estimates is one of the problems with Census data focusing on a single year. The figures, which are gathered by analyzing international migration trends, birth and death records and domestic migration, are nearly always revised at some point during the year, demographers said. 
 ''It's an estimate or a guesstimate by a fairly time-honored and reliable method,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, the director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University Graduate Center. ''But it's not like the census. It's not like they've gone out and tried to count everybody.''
 Even so, the most recent data pointed to a strong trend in population increases in New York City, which added 13,371 new residents from July 2002 through June 2003. Although the city is not growing as quickly as it did several years ago, its population is still increasing while other large cities have experienced declines, demographers said.
 ''It's certainly to be expected that the city's rate of growth would go down in the last two years when it was facing a recession that was worse than the rest of the country and worse than the areas surrounding it,'' said Christopher Jones, the vice president for research at the Regional Plan Association. ''The fact that it's continued to grow is a sign that it's still attractive to many parts of the population.''
 However, Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College who analyzes the census numbers for The New York Times, said that much of the overall increase in population was probably due to an increase in births. 
 But in at least one of the four gauges for population, there was a slight decrease.
 According to net domestic migration estimates -- the difference between the number of United States residents moving in and leaving New York City -- more people left New York from July 2002 through June 2003 than moved to the city.
 Professor Beveridge found that net domestic migration in New York City was minus 153,464 in the period from July 2001 to June 2002, and was minus 151,370 in the same period last year. 
 Both the Bronx and Brooklyn posted increases in net domestic outmigration last year, while Queens and Manhattan posted decreases. Staten Island was nearly unchanged.
 One of the more intriguing parts of the report was the population shift in Brooklyn and Queens, demographers said. Both boroughs lost residents in the last year. 
 The population of Brooklyn declined by 3,127 people, and Queens fell by 1,686, according to the report. 
 Analysts said the change in Queens, which has traditionally been home to waves of new immigrants, was intriguing particularly since for the second consecutive year, the Census Bureau's citywide figures on immigration are not current. The Bureau uses data from 2000 to 2001, which precedes the changes to many of the immigration laws after the terrorist attacks.
 ''If in fact, international migration has actually declined, this would affect all of these numbers and probably negatively, assuming international migration has slowed down after 9/11 and after the boom,'' Professor Beveridge said. ''What this is saying is that New York's really rapid growth of the 1990's seems to have ended or abated.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); CITIES (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); TRENDS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); TERRORISM (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



204 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Fall Markedly; Inventories Up At Wholesalers

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing initial claims for jobless benefits fell last week to the lowest level in more than three years, the Labor Department reported Thursday. 
 First-time applications for state unemployment insurance fell by an unexpectedly steep 14,000 in the week ended Saturday, to 328,000, from 342,000 the week before. 
 The size of the decline surprised economists and analysts, and led some to predict that a trend toward more hiring was in place.
 ''Clearly good news,'' said Pierre Ellis of Decision Economics in New York. ''What appears to be the resumption of new hiring should combine with this reduction in layoffs to promote strong employment growth.'' 
 The Labor Department's four-week moving average of new claims, which irons out weekly fluctuations, declined more modestly -- down 3,250 last week, to 336,750, and the lowest since November 2000. 
 Separately, the Bureau of Labor Statistics delayed the revised release date of the Producer Price Index for March because of technical difficulties. The data for January and February had also been delayed, the bureau citing technology trouble. 
 A report from the Commerce Department on Thursday said that wholesalers had improved sales and had added heavily to inventories in February, implying underlying strength in suggesting that companies were gearing up in anticipation of greater demand. 
 Wholesale inventories grew by a larger-than-expected 1.2 percent in February; analysts had forecast an increase of 0.3 percent. Also promising, sales by wholesalers outpaced inventory growth, rising 1.3 percent in February. The stock-to-sales ratio, which gauges how long it would take to deplete inventories at the current sales pace, remained at a record low 1.17 months for a third month.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Jobless Claims''Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time from Oct. 2003 - March 2004.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (70%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Inventories (Economic Indicator); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



205 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; Suutarila Journal

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Educators Flocking to Finland, Land of Literate Children

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: SUUTARILA, Finland 

 BODY:
Imagine an educational system where children do not start school until they are 7, where spending is a paltry $5,000 a year per student, where there are no gifted programs and class sizes often approach 30. A prescription for failure, no doubt, in the eyes of many experts, but in this case a description of Finnish schools, which were recently ranked the world's best. 
 Finland topped a respected international survey last year, coming in first in literacy and placing in the top five in math and science. Ever since, educators from all over the world have thronged to this self-restrained country to deconstruct its school system -- ''educational pilgrims,'' the locals call them -- and, with luck, take home a sliver of wisdom. 
 ''We are a little bit embarrassed about our success,'' said Simo Juva, a special government adviser to the Ministry of Education, summing up the typical reaction in Finland, where boasting over accomplishments does not come easily. Perhaps next year, he said, wishfully, Finland will place second or third.
 The question on people's minds is obvious: how did Finland, which was hobbled by a deep recession in the 1990's, manage to outscore 31 other countries, including the United States, in the review by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development last September? The rankings were based on reading, math and science tests given to a sample of 15-year-olds attending both public and private schools. United States students placed in the middle of the pack.
 Finland's recipe is both complex and unabashedly basic. It is also similar to that in other Nordic countries. Some of the ingredients can be exported (its flexibility in the classroom, for example) and some cannot (the nation's small, homogenous population and the relative prosperity of most Finns, to name two).
 If one trait sets Finland apart from many other countries, it is the quality and social standing of its teachers, said Barry Macgaw, the director for education at the O.E.C.D. 
 All teachers in Finland must have at least a master's degree, and while they are no better paid than teachers in other countries, the profession is highly respected. Many more people want to become teachers after graduating from upper schools than universities can actually handle, so the vast majority are turned down.
 ''Teaching is the No. 1,'' Outi Pihlman, the English teacher at Suutarila Lower Comprehensive School, said about a recent survey asking teenagers to name their favorite profession. ''At that age, you would think they would want anything but to go back to school.''
 The Suutarila school -- cheerful, well lit, nicely heated -- is typical of Finnish ''comprehensive schools,'' which run from first to ninth grade. The students, who number about 500, pad about in their socks. After every 45-minute lesson, they are let loose outside for 15 minutes so they can burn off steam. Others are allowed to practice their music, and they file into classrooms, sling electric guitars across their chests or grab drumsticks and jam.
 Children here start school late on the theory that they will learn to love learning through play. Preschool for 6-year-olds is optional, although most attend. And since most women work outside the home in Finland, children usually go to day care after they turn one. 
 At first, the 7-year-olds lag behind their peers in other countries in reading, but they catch up almost immediately and then excel. Experts cite several reasons: reading to children, telling folk tales and going to the library are activities cherished in Finland. Lastly, children grow up watching television shows and movies (many in English) with subtitles. So they read while they watch TV.
 So long as schools stick to the core national curriculum, which lays out goals and subject areas, they are free to teach the way they want. They can choose their textbooks or ditch them altogether, teach indoors or outdoors, cluster children in small or large groups. 
 While there are no programs for gifted children, teachers are free to devise ways to challenge their smartest students. The smarter students help teach the average students. ''Sometimes you learn better that way,'' said Pirjo Kanno, the principal in Suutarila. 
 Students must learn two foreign languages -- Swedish is required by law, and most also take English. Art, music, physical education, woodwork and textiles (which is mostly sewing and knitting) are obligatory for girls and boys. Hot and healthy school lunches are free. There are also 90 computers scattered about the school, and students are free to attend homework clubs staffed by assistants after school.
 Despite the accolades, Finnish officials say they are far from perfect. Boys, for example, perform much worse than girls in reading, and with so many wanting to become teachers, too few are willing to leap outside the social service sphere. ''We're trying to get them to start their own businesses,'' said Kirsi Lindroos, the national board of education's director general.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At a pause between lessons, three lower-grade pupils at the Suutarila school in Finland changed stickers. (Photo by Sari Gustafsson/Lehtikuva, for The New York Times)
 Little fingers counting during a mathematics test at the school. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RANKINGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (70%) Education and Schools; Reading and Writing Skills; Mathematics; Science and Technology

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

PERSON: Lizette Alvarez

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (72%) Finland

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



206 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Gasoline Prices Won't Fall Anytime Soon

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
The Energy Department predicted yesterday that the average price of gasoline this summer would rival record levels, an announcement that drove crude oil prices 2.8 percent higher, to more than $37 a barrel.
 In its Short-Term Energy Outlook report yesterday, the Energy Information Administration, the research arm of the Energy Department, said it was confident that from April to September, the average retail price of gasoline would be around $1.76 a gallon, about what it is now and 20 cents higher than the average last summer. 
 The prices of crude oil and gasoline have been rising through the late winter as a result of a knot of factors, from the decisions made by oil exporters to scale back production to the increasingly complex task of refining gasoline in the United States. But among the most powerful elements buoying oil prices has been robust demand, in the United States and in increasingly voracious countries like China. 
 Despite such high fuel prices, analysts said, demand is unlikely to abate soon. 
 ''Old notions about the elasticity of demand and the reaction to prices have to be recalculated,'' said Edward L. Morse, executive adviser at Hetco, a New York-based oil trading company. In the face of such stubborn demand and tight oil supplies, Mr. Morse said, ''there is no short-term fix, none whatsoever'' to steep prices.
 Even though Americans continue to buy gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles and fill up their tanks, they still tend to feel sticker shock when they see gasoline prices hovering around $2 a gallon. As a result, politicians have seized on the issue, and the report indicates that consumers will encounter some of the highest prices of the year at the height of the presidential campaign.
 ''Prices will be where they are now,'' said Shirley Neff, a Washington energy consultant and a former senior economist on the Senate Energy Committee. ''That assumes that things go well, but you know it never goes smoothly. There could be labor strikes in Nigeria, or problems with a refinery here. And if those sorts of things happen and prices go up even higher than now, you could see this being a real problem in the campaign.''
 On the news of the gasoline price predictions, the price of May futures for crude oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange closed at $37.14 a barrel, an increase of 99 cents from the day before. The price of crude oil has risen this week at its fastest rate in 11 months.
 Such a jump is part of the cycle that has bolstered fuel prices for the last few months: the price of gasoline is high, so traders react nervously and push up the price of crude oil, which in turn pushes up the price of gasoline. But the roots of the lofty prices extend as far back as the winter of 2003, Mr. Morse and other analysts said. 
 More than a year ago, Venezuela shut oil production because of political turmoil, and some of that capacity has still not been restored. Iraq stopped pumping oil on the eve of last year's war, and though production has rebounded since then, exports still lag because of sabotage at its crucial northern pipeline. The high price of crude oil this week also reflects new anxieties among traders about the security of Iraq's oil network amid the revolt there.
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has also trimmed exports in an effort to keep prices high and state coffers full. In the United States, meanwhile, refiners have had to meet new environmental standards, prolonging the stretches they close for maintenance, said Jamal Qureshi, market analyst with PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm.
 Those crimps in global supply came as consumption of oil and gasoline grew at an unexpectedly high rate. After growing 500,000 to 600,000 barrels a day, global oil demand jumped by a million barrels a day last year and could increase by two million barrels a day this year, Mr. Morse said. Increased prosperity in China and India has created a prodigious appetite for oil, he said, and the United States itself consumes 300,000 more barrels of oil a day now than it did a year ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); GASOLINE PRICES (94%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); FUTURES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); STRIKES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (58%) Energy Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



207 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: UPRISING

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: AS FIGHTING RAGES, INSURGENTS IN IRAQ KIDNAP 3 JAPANESE

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 8 

 BODY:
As American forces continued battling Sunni Muslims in Falluja and other troops began deploying south to challenge insurgents who have seized control of three major Shiite cities, rebels kidnapped several foreign civilians on Thursday and threatened to execute them. 
 Three Japanese civilians appeared in a video broadcast on Al Jazeera news channel blindfolded, while their black-garbed captors threatened them with guns, knives and swords.
 A statement by a previously unknown group calling itself the Mujahedeen Brigades gave Japan three days to withdraw its 550 troops from Iraq before the hostages -- two aid workers and a journalist -- would be killed. In Tokyo, the chief cabinet secretary, Yasuo Fukuda, called the abductions ''unforgivable,'' but said they did not justify a withdrawal.
 Besides the Japanese seized as hostages, Israel announced that two Israeli Arabs were kidnapped Thursday. Several abducted South Koreans were released. A Canadian aid worker was reported kidnapped, and a British citizen was seized in the southern city of Nasiriya. 
 Meanwhile, the interim Iraqi interior minister, Nuri al-Badran, announced his resignation in response to a request by L. Paul Bremer III, the chief American administrator. While the move was presented as necessary to balance Sunni and Shiite ministers on the Iraqi Governing Council, many Iraqis suspected Mr. Badran was paying the price for the widespread desertion by Iraqi police and civil defense units in the face of the violence.
 As the war took a menacing turn, Gen. John P. Abizaid, head of the Army's Central Command, visited Baghdad to assess calls for reinforcements and declared that he would use all necessary force to quell the insurgency sweeping the country.
 Falluja, 30 miles west of Baghdad, is enduring the heaviest fighting since American-led forces swept across the country and captured Baghdad a year ago on Friday. Accounts by reporters accompanying United States Marine units said they were fighting street-to-street on Thursday, taking heavy rocket, mortar and small arms fire from factories, homes and mosques. 
 Two American soldiers were killed Thursday, according to Central Command, raising the number of United States troops killed in less than a week of fighting to nearly 40. Reports from Falluja hospitals suggested that more than 289 Iraqis had been killed, although that figure could not be independently confirmed.
 In an interview at the American command's headquarters near Baghdad airport, General Abizaid issued a stark warning for the Iraqi fighters, from the minority Sunni as well as the majority Shiite populations, who have changed the landscape of the war dramatically since the ambush and killing last week of four American security guards in Falluja. Over the weekend, Shiite militiamen in Baghdad and elsewhere struck against American and allied troops across a wide swath of central and southern Iraq in what has become a broad uprising against the American-led occupation. 
 ''First, we are going to win,'' General Abizaid said, seated alongside Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, the American field commander in Iraq. ''Secondly, everyone needs to understand that there is no more powerful force assembled on earth than this military force in this country that's backed up with our naval and air forces in near proximity.''
 In a message directed at the insurgent leaders in Falluja and at Moktada al-Sadr, the cleric who has led the Shiite insurrection across southern Iraq, the general added: ''The fact that we have been so judicious in the use of this force should not be lost on anybody. This country will not suffer intimidation by the United States of America. But those who oppose moving democracy forward will have to pay the consequences if they don't cease and desist.''
 General Abizaid said that in his discussions with General Sanchez and with Washington, ''everything is on the table,'' including accelerating the return to Iraq of the Third Infantry Division, whose troops led the capture of Baghdad last year.
 ''There's all sorts of combinations and permutations,'' he said. ''And you need to say that, because the decisions have not been made.''
 At a news conference earlier Thursday, General Sanchez said there were about 125,000 American troops in Iraq, out of a total allied force of 145,000. For several months until this week, with American forces under pressure across the Sunni areas north, south and west of Baghdad and with Shiite areas enduring a wave of suicide bombings and other attacks aimed at worshipers in mosques, police stations and other military and civilian targets, American commanders here insisted that troop strengths were adequate. 
 Now, the emphasis is on building up American forces to cope with the widening conflict, and on using American forces anywhere in Iraq there are insurgent threats, including areas of the south that have until now being assigned to troops from more than 30 other nations that have joined in the effort to pacify Iraq. 
 Asked in the interview about American troop movements toward Kut, Kufa and Najaf, the three Shiite cities that are under Mr. Sadr's control, General Abizaid replied, ''It's safe to say that U.S. units will be used anywhere in this country to deal with any threat that's presented, that requires their presence.''
 In the latest blow to the fragile stability that prevailed across many Shiite towns in the south until the last week, Ukrainian troops were forced to withdraw from bases in Kut on Wednesday after coming under attack by Mr. Sadr's militia force, the Mahdi Army. General Sanchez said. ''We will retake al Kut imminently,'' suggesting that American forces had already reached the city.
 In yet another challenge to the occupation, Polish and Bulgarian troops fought through the night on Wednesday to drive off Sadr militia forces that attacked them near the city hall in Karbala.
 A Polish military spokesman, Lt. Col. Robert Strzelecki, was quoted by the Polish news agency PAP on Thursday as saying Polish patrols in Karbala had been suspended for the soldiers' protection. The Bulgarian foreign minister, Solomon Passi, said 120 American soldiers had been sent to the city as reinforcements.
 In Samarra, a predominantly Sunni city 80 miles north of Baghdad that had quieted down after heavy American attacks that followed the capture of Saddam Hussein in December, American troops came under renewed attack on Thursday, according to an Agence France-Presse report, with heavily armed men roaming the streets in trucks firing rocket-propelled grenades toward a base for American and Iraqi troops.
 General Abizaid dismissed suggestions that the widening of the war threatened an unraveling of American control. After outlining options for increased troop strengths, he said, ''But I don't want to give the impression that everything is spinning out of control, because it's not.''
 He added: ''It's our judgment that at the present time we need to ensure that there is no misunderstanding on the side of those who oppose us that we will do whatever is necessary to get the situation under control.''
 ''We are not headed for disaster, as long as we are resolute, courageous and patient,'' he said.
 Still, when asked if there was a risk that the insurgency in the Sunni heartland and the uprising led by Mr. Sadr would merge into a war of national resistance, with the religious and political rivalries between the Sunni and the Shiites submerged in a surge of Iraqi nationalism, the general gave a measured reply.
 ''There's always a possibility that a national resistance will arise,'' he said. ''But I firmly believe there are more people in this country trying to hold it together than are trying to take it apart. Our problem is to confront those who would take it apart, and they are in a small minority.''
 He declined to say how long it might take to achieve stability, saying that would depend on ''an awful lot of skill'' in managing the political and economic challenges, as well as the military ones. But in the immediate future, he said, American prospects would depend on getting tough with Mr. Sadr and others challenging American control. 
 ''This has been a nation of intimidators,'' he said. ''We only have to stop the culture of intimidation, and it will only be done with a fair and firm response by us.''
 ''And it will often be deadly,'' he said, ''but that's what we've got to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A television image showing three Japanese being held captive in Iraq. At right, marines prayed over a comrade who died of wounds in Falluja. (Photo by Al Jazeera, via Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
(Photo by Murad Sezer/Associated Press)(pg. A1)
A marine in Falluja aided a wounded comrade yesterday on their armored vehicle after it was attacked by a rocket-propelled grenade. (Photo by Pool photo)
The two senior generals in Iraq, Gen. John P. Abizaid, left, and Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, at a news conference yesterday at Baghdad airport. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin/Reflex News, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)Chart/Map: ''Fallout From the Fighting
Cities at Stake''Shiite rebels have control of Kut after Ukrainian forces pulled out on Tuesday
Kufa after clashes on Sunday killed a Salvadoran soldier
and part of Najaf where Moktada al-Sadr, the radical Shiite cleric, has taken refuge.Division of LaborThe multinational forces, from the following countries, are divided into geographic sectors commanded by the United States, Poland, and Britain.AMERICAN COMMANDAlbania, Australia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Macedonia, South Korea, United StatesPOLISH COMMANDBulgaria, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Mongolia, the Philippines, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Thailand, UkraineBRITISH COMMANDBritain, Czech Republic, Denmark, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Moldova, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Romania(Source by Department of Defense
Combined Joint Task Force 7
 The World Gazetteer)(pg. A8)Map of Iraq highlighting Kut, Najaf, and Kufa. (pg. A8) <?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); WRITERS (70%); POLICE FORCES (55%); RESIGNATIONS (52%) Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; Recordings (Video); Hostages; Kidnapping; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Threats and Threatening Messages; Capital Punishment; Terrorism; Foreign Aid; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: Al Jazeera (Television Network) ; Mujahedeen Brigades (Iraq)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); YASUO FUKUDA (55%) John F Burns; John P (Gen) Abizaid

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (92%); POLAND (87%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); ESTONIA (75%); THAILAND (70%); LATVIA (69%); GEORGIA (59%); UKRAINE (58%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Japan; Iraq; Israel; South Korea ; Canada; Nasiriya (Iraq); Iraq; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



208 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: European Economic Liberalization: Often Forecast but Never Done

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
ON May Day, the historic workers' holiday, the European Union will expand to 25 countries, bringing increased competition that forces economic liberalization in the comfortable countries of old Europe.
 Or so they say.
 Forecasts of structural change in Europe have been plentiful -- and wrong. The changes that economists support are a hard sell to voters even in good times, and petrify many of them when unemployment is high. 
 A decade ago, as Europe prepared for monetary unification, it was widely predicted that that step would be the incentive for change. The common currency would mean that a country could not just devalue its way to competitiveness. Instead, it would have to attack structural issues, knowing that inaction would risk leaving a country behind.
 Action would mean freeing the labor market to let companies become more competitive. And it would mean doing something to bring down high tax rates and deal with soaring costs of public pension plans.
 Governments tried. But their limited accomplishments may have been worse than nothing. They had to compromise and make only minimal pension changes. They said they would try to do more in coming years.
 Telling an aging population that its pension benefits may be in jeopardy in a few years is not a prescription likely to increase consumer spending, and it has not.
 Nor, it turns out, is it a wise political strategy. In Italy, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi is dealing with demonstrations by pensioners. In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder has put political capital into his Agenda 2010 reforms, but his popularity has waned, and he even had to step down as head of his political party.
 In France, the government of President Jacques Chirac reacted to a defeat in regional elections by retreating from the changes it had made. The minimum wage is to be raised, and previously enacted reductions in benefits for the long-term unemployed will be repealed. Ways will be found to pacify research scientists who are upset about inadequate funding, and to subsidize artists with similar complaints. Somehow, all of this is to be done without raising budget deficits.
 This week, the European Union cut its forecast for growth in the euro area this year to a paltry 1.7 percent, less than half its increased forecast for the United States.
 Now the argument is that change will come from corporate suites. ''Chirac is not the driver here,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of the Hoenig division of ITG. ''The driver is what the large multinational companies have been doing in confronting previously bellicose unions with shifts of jobs to Eastern Europe.'' The expansion of the European Union makes it easier for companies to act, and reduces the currency risks, since most of the new countries expect to join the euro bloc at some point.
 In a new report, Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a European equity strategist for Merrill Lynch, asks: ''Could the combination of low labor costs and low corporate tax rates'' in the newly added countries, ''coupled with a potential to absorb new technologies, end up being a transforming event for Western Europe?'' His answer is that it could.
 In the end, perhaps it can. But the idea that companies can shift jobs to more profitable areas and thus force reform at home is far from proven. 
 Instead, it may herald a contentious era as governments try to block companies from doing what they think best -- and in the process discourage investment. ''The strife that we are talking about tells me that you have seen the high of the euro,'' Mr. Barbera said.
 Changes that strike economists as necessary and as inevitable scare many voters. The voters are prevailing.


GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph tracks the growth in gross domestic product for the United States and Euro Zone from 2000 - 2004*.*European Union estimates 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AGING TRENDS (71%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); AGING (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



209 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Inflated College Grades

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I applaud Princeton University for trying to rein in grade inflation (news article, April 8). But its proposed quota for A's (35 percent of all grades, down from 47 percent) will not address the underlying problem. 
 Where college grades used to be critical only for those going on to graduate or professional schools, now students applying for jobs send transcripts to potential employers. The result is students badgering instructors to raise their grades, and faculty and graduate assistants trying to help their students' prospects. 
 If college career offices stopped encouraging students to make their grades part of the job-hunting process, perhaps students would stop credentialing themselves and get back to the business of learning.

AMANDA I. SELIGMAN
Glendale, Wis., April 8, 2004

The writer is an assistant professor, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



210 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing People: Priceline Chairman Resigns

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Priceline.com, an Internet seller of discount travel services, said yesterday that Richard S. Braddock had resigned as chairman and was leaving the company. A board member, Ralph M. Bahna, took his place. Mr. Braddock, 62, said in a statement that ''it is now time to move on.'' He was named chairman in 1998, the same year that Mr. Bahna, 61, joined the board of the company, based in Norwalk, Conn. His departure comes as analysts forecast rising profit for the company as it rebounds from weak sales of airline tickets. Mr. Braddock, who was once president of Citicorp, is one of the last of several high-profile executives recruited by the company during the Internet bubble of the late 1990's. The chief executive, Jeffery H. Boyd, 47, took over day-to-day operations from him in November 2002. Shares of Priceline.com rose 37 cents, to $27.02. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); BOARD CHANGES (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (52%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: PRICELINE.COM INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Priceline.com

TICKER: PCLN (NASDAQ) (90%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: JEFFERY H BOYD (59%) Richard S Braddock; Ralph M Bahna

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



211 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Interest Rates Steady

BYLINE: By Alan Cowell (NYT)

 BODY:
The Bank of England kept interest rates unchanged at 4 percent but economists said rates were likely to rise next month to curb surging consumer spending and rising house prices. After two increases since November 2003, British rates are four times those in the United States and twice those of the 12-nation euro zone, underscoring the divergent nature of the economies of Britain and those of the Continent. Economists had been divided on whether the bank would increase rates now or wait until May. Alan Cowell (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TRENDS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (87%); EURO ZONE (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (85%); HOME PRICES (85%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Interest Rates; Credit; Consumer Behavior; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of England

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



212 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Proposal Raises Issue of Who Should Pay What for College

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
If Congress changes the rules on college loans, taking away the opportunity for students to consolidate them at low fixed rates, the average graduate will have to pay an extra $3,115 to $5,484 in interest over the life of the loans, the Congressional Research Service has found.
 The report, which has not yet been released, addresses one of the more contentious questions facing Congress this year: How much of the burden of college debt should be shouldered by the government and how much by the students themselves? 
 As debate over the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act gets under way, a fierce fight has sprung up over the answer. Currently, graduates can consolidate their loans and lock in low interest rates, some as low as 3.5 percent, for years to come. 
 But when market rates rise above that fixed rate, the government is obliged to make up the difference, guaranteeing lenders a certain profit. So, the more students choose to consolidate, the more expensive a proposition it becomes for the federal government, especially when interest rates rise.
 According to the General Accounting Office, consolidating loans has become such a popular option among graduates that the cost of subsidizing them rose to $2.1 billion in the 2003 fiscal year from $650 million the previous fiscal year. 
 Concerned that the cost will only continue to rise, some House Democrats have proposed legislation to change the program, hoping to eliminate the fixed rates for students and replace them with variable rates that would fluctuate as the market does. 
 House Republicans say they will probably introduce similar legislation, also out of concern for what they call the program's ballooning costs. In a letter to his fellow lawmakers last month, Representative John A. Boehner, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, said that if the program ''is left on autopilot, it will consume billions in federal funds that could instead be used to expand college access for low- and middle-income students struggling for a higher education.'' 
 But eliminating the option to lock in low interest rates will force students to pay more, supporters of the current program argue. As shown in the research service's report, it will expose graduates to higher interest rates and bigger monthly payments on their student loans. A copy of the report was given to The New York Times by a member of Congress. 
 ''As millions of low- and middle-income students struggle to finance their college education, Congress should not craft policies that make college more expensive while big banks' profits continue to soar,'' said Representative George Miller of California, the senior Democrat on the House Education Committee. 
 Assuming that most graduates have about $17,000 in college loans, switching from a fixed to a variable interest rate would cost them an additional $3,115 in interest payments over the course of a 10-year loan, the research service found. On a 15-year loan, the same amount of debt would cost an additional $5,484 in interest.
 Critics of the current program argue that its chief beneficiaries are working adults, capable of taking on the responsibility of paying back their loans, higher rates and all. Instead of subsidizing them by offering fixed rates, critics say, the government should be spending its money on people who are still students, struggling either to start or stay in college. 
 But supporters of the program respond that lower interest rates and smaller monthly payments make graduates more likely to pay back their loans. That means fewer defaults and less money the government has to spend bailing out delinquent borrowers.
 Educators themselves are divided over which approach is better. The National Direct Student Loan Coalition, representing some 1,100 colleges and universities participating in the federal direct loan program, for example, has not taken a position on the consolidation question because ''we couldn't get consensus,'' said Eileen K. O'Leary, the group's chairwoman. 
 ''That's how contentious this issue is,'' Ms. O'Leary said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Law and Legislation; Tuition; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%) Congressional Research Service

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (54%) Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



213 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: As Prices Rise in China, Signs of Inflation

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 8 

 BODY:
Inflationary pressures are increasing in China's rapidly growing economy, with new data from the country's central bank showing that companies paid rising prices in March to buy a wide range of commodities and industrial products.
 Inflation in China has become a growing concern to bankers, corporate executives and monetary officials around the world. 
 The Chinese economy, as a producer, and the American economy, as a consumer, have emerged as the two main engines of the global economy, but China's ability to sustain its breakneck pace of economic growth is increasingly in doubt, said Sung W. Sohn, an executive vice president of Wells Fargo.
 ''There's a greater probability the Chinese engine might stall, and that represents the greatest threat to the global economy,'' Mr. Sohn said during a visit here on Thursday. 
 The corporate goods price index of the People's Bank of China jumped 8.3 percent last month compared with March 2003. The index measures prices that companies pay for goods from other companies, and covers transactions at many levels of the economy, from the iron ore that mines sell to steel mills to the washing machines that appliance manufacturers sell to distributors and retailers.
 The rise in March represents a swift acceleration in an important measure of inflation. The year-over-year change was less than 1 percent as recently as June, and the index was actually falling in 2002.
 The big mystery now, economists said, is when and whether the latest rapid increases will show up in the prices that consumers pay at their nearest vegetable market or hardware store. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, the consumer price index was only up 2.1 percent in February, compared with a year earlier. Its producer price index of industrial products, which measures what producers of finished goods charge to distributors and retailers, was up 3.5 percent.
 The bureau is periodically accused by Western and Chinese experts of adjusting statistics for political reasons, something the agency's officials strongly deny. The widening discrepancy between the bureau's figures and the less well-known but more alarming data from the central bank is nonetheless starting to attract attention among economists.
 Asked about why some data shows inflation in China at 3 percent or so, an official at the People's Bank, China's central bank, said the bank was absolutely convinced that its figures were accurate. ''Don't believe other people's figures,'' he added.
 A statistics bureau official declined to comment on the specifics of inflation data, but said that the bureau would release the consumer price index for March on April 16, and not April 19, as previously announced.
 Jonathan Anderson, an economist and China specialist based in the Hong Kong offices of UBS, said that the central bank's data might show such a rapid rise in prices in March because the data appeared to depend heavily on raw material prices. These have been climbing around the globe.
 Rising raw material prices in China in 2000 did not drive up consumer prices much, however, because raw materials were a small share of the total cost of goods then, with labor and other costs contributing more.
 The rapid acceleration lately in the central bank's index may be more of a cause for concern than its absolute level, Mr. Anderson said. He added that the index gave a good indication of inflation at many stages of production in China, because it covers everything from the price that steel mills pay for pig iron -- up 74.5 percent in March from a year earlier -- to the cost of cotton for yarn factories, up 35.2 percent.
 By contrast, the prices that companies charge for consumer durable goods like refrigerators actually fell 1.6 percent in the year ended in March. This suggests that Chinese businesses may be retaining their competitive edge in domestic and international markets with aggressive pricing, despite their rising costs.
 With companies not yet able to significantly raise the prices that they charge consumers, higher raw material prices do appear to be hurting profits. ''It's clear that margins are probably going down now, but it's not clear how much,'' Mr. Anderson said.
 Andy Xie, an economist at Morgan Stanley, said that swiftly rising grain prices had probably played a role in the central bank's data, for which the precise basket of goods counted is not released. Beijing authorities have allowed the price of rice and other staples to appreciate as a way to help rural areas, which have badly lagged the cities in income.
 Grain prices leaped 28.4 percent in the year ended in March, according to the central bank.
 The People's Bank of China actually posted its price data on its Web site on Wednesday night. But the government-controlled media in China has virtually ignored the numbers.
 Economists regard China's economic data for March as crucial because little reliable information has been available from China all winter. The Chinese New Year, when many factories and other businesses are closed for as long as two weeks, came in January this year and in February last year. So data from January and February this year are not easily comparable with the economic performance in early 2003.
 Chinese statisticians also tend to throw lots of one-time adjustments into December figures to offset data problems that crept in during the year, so December results receive little credence and in some cases are not even announced by the Chinese government. So economists have had to rely until now to some extent on stale data from November.
 The March data is also important because China's economy suffered heavily from SARS in April and May last year, which will affect year-on-year comparisons for those months. China does not generally provide seasonal adjustments for its statistics, so finding months that are similar in back-to-back years is extra important.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Rising Prices''The Chinese central bank's index of corporate goods prices, which measures all transactions between companies from raw materials purchases to sales of finished goods to retail stores, has soared in recent months. But the increases do not yet show up yet in the official consumer price index.Graph tracks the year-over-year changes for corporate goods prices and consumer prices since 2001.(Sources by CEIC, People's Bank of China, Chinas National Bureau of Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HARDWARE STORES (66%) Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Price Index; Producer Price Index

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (70%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (51%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (51%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (51%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (51%)

ORGANIZATION: People's Bank of China

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



214 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: One Good Month

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
At last, a favorable surprise on jobs: estimated payroll employment rose 308,000 in March, above almost everyone's expectations. You can't blame the administration for trying to play up the good news, and for being dismayed when the sound of popping Champagne corks was drowned out by the crackle of gunfire. But has the economy, after so many false starts, finally started to deliver?
 For perspective, it helps to remember what solid job growth looks like. During Bill Clinton's eight years in office, the economy added 236,000 jobs per month. But that's just an average: a graph of monthly changes looks like an electrocardiogram. There were 23 months with 300,000 or more new jobs; in March 2000, the economy added 493,000 jobs. This tells us not to make too much of one month's data; payroll numbers are, as economists say, noisy. It also tells us that by past standards, March 2004 was nothing special. 
 And we should be seeing something special, because our economy should be on the rebound. Bad times are usually followed by big bouncebacks; for example, last year long-suffering Argentina had the fastest growth rate in the Western Hemisphere (8.7 percent!), not because of the excellence of its economic policies, but because it was recovering from a severe slump. 
 America hasn't had an Argentine-level slump, but we have a lot to recover from. After three years of lousy job performance, we should be seeing very big employment gains -- and even after last month's report, we're not. It would take about four years of reports as good as the one for March 2004 before jobs would be as easy to find as they were in January 2001.
 Of course, we can hope that the March numbers are just the beginning of a torrent of good news. But the straws in the wind aren't wildly encouraging. Weekly first claims for unemployment insurance are down -- but they're still above the 2000 average, and job growth in 2000 barely kept up with population. Average weekly hours, sometimes a clue to future hiring, fell in March -- in fact, they fell so much that total hours worked declined even as the work force increased. 
 These indicators suggest that the odds are less than even for job growth between now and the election that will match or beat the Clinton-era average, let alone deliver the job boom we both need and have a right to expect after three bad years. Which brings us to politics. 
 Leaving the details for another day, it's pretty clear what John Kerry's economic philosophy will be. He's surrounding himself with advisers closely tied to Bill Clinton, and even more closely tied to Robert Rubin, the legendary former Treasury secretary. In office, we can surmise, Mr. Kerry would follow a Rubinesque strategy of bringing long-term budget deficits under control through a mixture of tax increases for upper-income families and spending restraint. No doubt he would move slowly on deficit reduction as long as the economy remained weak, but his advisers would tell him, as Mr. Rubin told Mr. Clinton, that responsible long-run budget policies are good in the short run, too, because they help keep interest rates low.
 George Bush has, of course, tried to be the anti-Clinton in all things. His advisers rejected Rubinomics and hearkened back to Reaganomics, insisting that long-run tax cuts, never mind the effect on the budget deficit, are the key to growth. For three years, they've had nothing but red ink to show for their efforts. Now they've had one good but not great month.
 In short, this year's election will be a contest between a candidate who advocates a return to economic policies that were associated with eight years of very solid job growth, and one who advocates continuation of policies that have, after three years, yielded exactly one good monthly jobs report. I know: Mr. Clinton doesn't deserve all or even most of the credit for the good times on his watch, and Mr. Bush doesn't deserve all the blame for the bad times on his. Still, on the face of it there's nothing to recommend Mr. Bush's approach. But will voters see it differently? 
 My guess is no. If the election is driven by economics at all -- which seems doubtful right now, with the debacle in Iraq accelerating -- it will reflect the job situation on the ground, which remains grim. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); ELECTIONS (63%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN KERRY (74%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



215 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Pension Relief Legislation Is Approved by the Senate

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and MICHELINE MAYNARD; Carl Hulse reported from Washington for this article and Micheline Maynard from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8 

 BODY:
The Senate delivered American companies more than $80 billion in pension savings Thursday, sending President Bush legislation that provides additional relief to steel companies and some airlines that had clamored for the help.
 Though the measure was easily adopted on a 78-to-19 vote, a group of Democrats called it unfair because it failed to afford the same financial benefits to some smaller union pension funds. But backers of the legislation said that it was only a temporary fix and that other pension plans could be helped later without delaying this bill, which would help keep some major employers solvent and competitive.
 ''It is really the ultimate jobs bill,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire. 
 The legislation, a top priority of business groups, saves companies substantial amounts on their pension plans by changing the way their required contributions are calculated. The legislation ends a requirement that contributions be tied to interest rates on 30-year Treasury bonds; it substitutes a rate based on a composite of long-term corporate bonds for 2004 and 2005.
 A separate provision grants an estimated $1.6 billion in savings to airlines and steel companies with weak pension plans by allowing them to pay only 20 percent of what they would have to provide under requirements to bolster their pension funds.
 Some of the nation's largest airlines were the beneficiaries of the bulk of those savings, with United Airlines the primary winner. All the companies were pressing for the bill to become law before new quarterly payments come due April 15.
 The changes would have no effect on the amount of pensions that individual retirees receive.
 Opponents of the legislation said they were not contesting the aid to the company pension funds; their complaint was that the Bush administration and Republican Congressional leaders had given short shrift to so-called multiemployer pension plans that are having problems of their own because of stock market losses and a weak economy.
 Democrats led by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts said the union pension plans were largely denied government help at the behest of White House and Republican lawmakers controlling negotiations to reconcile the House and Senate bills. The Senate had previously voted overwhelmingly to extend the relief to multiemployer plans.
 ''When President Bush signs this bill, he should dress up as Marie Antoinette and say to the 10 million small-business employees left out of this legislation, 'Let them eat cake,''' Mr. Kennedy said.
 But Democrats were split because some labor unions backed the bill as did some segments of the auto industry. The Democratic leadership signaled Wednesday that it would not stand in the way of final approval.
 ''Without this legislation, struggling airlines could be forced by investors to terminate employee pension plans to escape or avoid bankruptcy,'' said Tom Buffenbarger, international president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
 Passage of the bill was critical to United Airlines' effort to emerge from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection that it entered in December 2002 after failing to win approval for its application for federal loans. United benefited from the provision that allows a handful of airlines and steel makers to stretch out their overdue pension obligations and from the general pension relief granted to a total of 31,000 companies by the bill.
 ''This legislation will help strengthen the pension plans of millions of American workers, including the 62,000 employees of United Airlines,'' United's chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, said in a statement. ''We hope the president will sign this bill quickly.'' Mr. Tilton lobbied persistently for the legislation, which had stalled last year.
 The $1.6 billion in special relief will also help American, Delta and Northwest to some degree. In recent days, the airlines drew backing from airline unions, including the Air Line Pilots Association and the Machinists Union, as well as support from the automobile industry. Officials of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler sent an unusual joint letter to members of Congress in support of the legislation, as did the United Automobile Workers union.
 The legislation was not unanimously supported by the airline industry. A group of low-fare airlines, including JetBlue, America West and Frontier, opposed it. Those companies, which do not have the pension obligations of their larger competitors, argued that the measure would provide the major companies with an unfair advantage.
 Mr. Kennedy has indicated he will try to add the relief for union pension plans when the Senate, which is leaving for a weeklong recess, takes up a stalled proposal for a tax break for exporters. Senate Democrats said Thursday that they had reached an agreement with Republicans on a list of possible amendments to that measure, allowing the debate to proceed when Congress returns.
 Aides to Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, said the deal would allow votes on a plan to block new Bush administration overtime rules and an extension of unemployment benefits as well as the pension relief. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BONDS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (55%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation; Airlines and Airplanes; Steel and Iron

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Carl Hulse; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



216 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Bush Picks Businessman For Manufacturing Post

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., April 8 

 BODY:
President Bush nominated a California businessman on Thursday for a senior position in the Commerce Department charged with reversing the precipitous drop in manufacturing jobs over the last three years. That decline continues to be a serious liability for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign.
 The businessman, Albert A. Frink Jr., is the executive vice president and a founder of Fabrica International, a relatively small company, based in Santa Ana, Calif., that makes high-end carpeting. He has not served in government before, although he has been on a federal advisory panel on textiles. 
 Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans introduced Mr. Frink on Thursday during a visit to a company in Mount Vernon, Ohio, that makes natural-gas compressors. Mr. Evans said Mr. Frink's ''extensive background as a manufacturer makes him a great candidate to serve because he has walked in their shoes and knows firsthand the barriers that are challenging American manufacturers.''
 Mr. Frink, 61, a native of Mexico, said he was ''honored to be considered'' for the position, assistant secretary of commerce for manufacturing and services. It is subject to Senate confirmation.
 The Bush administration established the position in September, as Democrats criticized the White House over the loss of manufacturing jobs, and set lofty goals for the person who would hold it, including ''creating the conditions for economic growth and manufacturing investment,'' according to a Commerce Department fact sheet.
 The manufacturing segment of the economy lost jobs for 43 months in a row. The numbers were unchanged in March, even as 308,000 new jobs were added in the rest of the economy. Over all, 2.8 million manufacturing workers have been put out of work since Mr. Bush took office, many because their employers have opened plants or begun buying material overseas.
 Mr. Bush's first choice for the position, Anthony F. Raimondo, the chief executive of the Behlen Manufacturing Company of Columbus, Neb., was forced to withdraw from consideration after it became known that he had laid off 75 of his own workers in 2002 while announcing that he was building a plant in China.
 A spokesman for Senator John Kerry's campaign called the Frink nomination ''too little, too late'' after ''2.8 million lost manufacturing jobs.''
 ''We're pleased that eight months after promising to appoint a czar, they finally found someone,'' said the spokesman, Phil Singer. The campaign had nothing specific to say about Mr. Frink.
 Mr. Frink could not be reached for comment on Thursday. His secretary said he was traveling home from the appearance in Ohio.
 Fabrica International, Mr. Frink's company, has been in business since 1974 and employs about 400 people. The Commerce Department said that Fabrica was based entirely in the United States.
 Last year, the Dixie Group, another carpet manufacturer, purchased Fabrica for $70 million, and Mr. Frink stayed on as executive vice president. Daniel K. Frierson, chief executive of Dixie, said in an interview that the company had continued to increase sales since the purchase.
 Mr. Frierson described Mr. Frink as a ''what you see is what you get kind of guy'' and ''a consummate salesman.'' Mr. Frink's company has sold carpets around the world, including some that are on the floor of the family quarters in the White House, Mr. Frierson added.
 Mr. Frick, he said, has long held an interest in serving in government, ''but I think he was mostly interested in a part-time position.''
 The assistant secretary's position is not part time. But given the months needed for Senate confirmation, and the proximity of the presidential election, it is possible that the job will be short-lived.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Albert A. Frink Jr., nominated for a Commerce Department job. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); LAYOFFS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); TEXTILES (71%); FLOORING (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%) Appointments and Executive Changes; United States Economy

COMPANY: BEHLEN MANUFACTURING CO (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS332311 PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDING & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (64%); SIC3448 PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDINGS & COMPONENTS (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Joel Brinkley; George W (Pres) Bush; Albert A Jr Frink

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004



217 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Video Games Lucrative For Hollywood Directors
Peter Jackson, who made the ''The Lord of the Rings'' trilogy, is entering the rarified club of Hollywood movie directors expected to earn as much money -- or even more -- from helping create video games as from making movies.
 Mr. Jackson has worked out a deal with Ubisoft and Universal Pictures, the studio that plans to release his next movie, ''King Kong,'' that will give him substantial creative control over the future game. [Page A1.]

Ex-Goldman Economist Sentenced
John Youngdahl, left, a former economist at Goldman, Sachs, was sentenced to two years and nine months in prison -- the lightest term possible under federal guidelines -- for relaying an insider bond tip that allowed the firm to make millions of dollars in tainted profits. He pleaded guilty last year to wire fraud, securities fraud and other charges. [C2.]

Buffett's Coke Re-election Opposed
Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises shareholders on governance issues, is asking shareholders of the Coca-Cola Company to withhold their votes for the investor Warren E. Buffett for re-election to the Coke board and to support a proposal to separate Coke's chairman and chief executive positions. [C6.]

Ryanair to Stay at Belgium Airport
Ryanair, the rapidly growing European low-fare airline, said that it had reached an agreement to keep using the airport at Charleroi, Belgium, for its Brussels flights. [C3.]

U.S. Turns Down Cow Test
The Agriculture Department refused to allow Creekstone Farms Premium Beef to test all of its cattle for mad cow disease, saying such sweeping tests were not scientifically warranted. The company wants to resume sending its Angus beef to Japan. [A8.]

US Airways Chief Is Paid $9 Million
US Airways Group paid its chief executive, David N. Siegel, $9 million in 2003, mainly in restricted stock, after his previously granted awards were canceled. [C2.]

American Airlines Shared Itineraries
American Airlines said that in June 2002 it shared 1.2 million passenger itineraries with the Transportation Security Administration and, inadvertently, four research companies vying for contracts with the agency. [C6.]

Profits Rise at SunTrust Banks
SunTrust Banks said first-quarter profit rose 9.4 percent as consumer lending increased, bad loans declined and fees from managing investments rose. [C2.]

Asian Stock Markets Decline
Asian stocks fell on concern that violence in Iraq and the threat of terrorist attacks would slow global economic expansion. [C3.]

Japan Optimistic About Economy
The Bank of Japan became more optimistic about the economy for the first time since December because of signs that an export-led recovery is spreading. [C3.]

U.S. Markets Closed
The financial markets in the United States were closed yesterday in observance of Good Friday. They will reopen Monday, but most European markets will be closed.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''Rising Mideast Markets''In the year since the fall of Baghdad, most stock markets across the Middle East have risen sharply. In the period, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 28 percent and the Nasdaq composite is up 52 percent.Graph tracks weekly closes since the fall of Baghdad, (April 2003), for the following Middle Eastern stock markets:EGYPTKUWAITJORDANISRAELU.A.E.BAHRAINLEBANONSAUDIARABIA(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (91%); FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AIRPORTS (86%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BONDS (75%); PRISONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BEEF (73%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AIR FARES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (69%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (64%); EASTER SEASON (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (82%); COCA-COLA CO (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); UBISOFT ENTERTAINMENT SA (57%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%); INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (55%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (55%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (82%); KO (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (57%); UBI (PAR) (57%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (55%); RYA (LSE) (55%); STI (NYSE) (52%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS512199 OTHER MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (85%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) MIDDLE EAST (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (91%); IRAQ (85%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



218 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: 24-Hour Test Drives Seem to Pass Carmakers' Test as a Sales Tool

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 9 

 BODY:
With big cash incentives appearing to lose some of their power to attract uyers, General Motors and several other automakers are extending 24-hour test drives and other hands-on marketing programs, particularly for featured new models that they would rather not sell at a steep discount. 
 On April 1, for example, G.M. started the fourth round of its 24-hour test drives, which let potential customers take a car home overnight so they can better see how much cargo it carries, how their children fit in the back seat, or how the neighbors react. In the year since the program began, about 650,000 people have taken part, and roughly one-third bought the cars they tested. 
 Following G.M.'s lead, Volkswagen and Ford Motor are offering their own versions of the 24-hour test drive, at least for their luxury makes. Audi, a unit of Volkswagen, is running a program aimed at winning converts before it introduces several new cars later this year. Jaguar, owned by Ford, will offer overnight drives of its XJ sedan to owners of other luxury cars. 
 DaimlerChrysler is thinking bigger, inviting four million people to a ''premiere night'' on April 22 to show off many of its new vehicles. Dodge and Jeep will have their own premiere nights later in the year. This summer, Mercedes-Benz will invite a million people to events in 12 cities.
 ''The incentive war is being replaced by a product war,'' said Gary Dilts, senior vice president for sales at the Chrysler Group, which oversees Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep.
 Car executives are trying to draw attention to their cars, hoping to shift buyers from thinking so much about incentives. Still, cash rebates, low-interest loans and other financial incentives are not likely to go away soon, executives and analysts say. ''Everybody still wants the deal,'' said Bill Mistele Jr., general director of retail strategy at G.M.'s dealer network.
 But Mr. Dilts said: ''The discount game isn't working for anybody. We have to fight the trend of ridiculously high incentives. It's just repricing on the fly.''
 Chrysler, which is notable for having some of the industry's most aggressive incentives, in the first two months of 2004 offered both no-interest loans and $2,000 cash back. Edmunds.com, an online research company, estimates that Chrysler's incentives now average $3,857 a vehicle, more than 50 percent above the industry average of $2,459 for February. G.M. has also been a big player in the incentives battle ever since it began its ''Keep America Rolling'' campaign after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 Last week, G.M. rolled out another batch of incentives including a no-interest financing program coupled with a $1,000 cash-back offer. But recent data from Edmunds.com shows that incentives have failed to help any manufacturer gain market share, particularly not G.M. and Chrysler. In January, for example, Chrysler's incentives jumped 5 percent, but its market share remained unchanged. G.M. cut its incentives a little, but its market share slid a lot.
 ''Incentives are being taken for granted,'' said Jesse Toprak, director of pricing and marketing analysis at Edmunds.com. ''It's no big deal anymore to see $3,000 or $4,000 cash rebates.''
 By contrast, niche marketing programs like 24-hour test drives appear to be changing people's impressions, particularly of brands like Cadillac and Chevrolet that have slid off many consumers' car shopping lists.
 Sam Offen, 82, a furrier from Birmingham, Mich., took out a Cadillac CTS a year ago and ended up buying a similar model. ''It was so new to me to be able to take the car home,'' said Mr. Offen, who had been driving an Oldsmobile Aurora. ''It was that level of trust, plus the fact that I liked the way the car drove, that made me decide to buy the car.''
 Mr. Mistele, the G.M. executive, said the 24-hour test drives had a 34 percent closing rate, compared with the 20 to 25 percent average for consumers who only visit the showroom or take a traditional test drive.
 The extended test drives also give G.M. an opportunity to show off technology that many customers might not know comes on its products, like the OnStar navigation and information system, or XM satellite radio. 
 One benefit of offering OnStar on the vehicles is that G.M. can keep track of them when they are away for 24 hours. Mr. Mistele said G.M. had not had any problem with people returning the vehicles. The program requires test drivers to leave their own cars at the dealership and have a valid driver's license and proof of insurance. 
 Chrysler is hoping to achieve the same kind of results with its ''Premiere Night'' promotions. It said it expected at least 150,000 people to attend the first one, on April 22, at nearly 2,100 Chrysler dealerships, when it will show off the Chrysler 300 series sedan, the PT Cruiser Convertible and an updated Town & Country minivan. 
 Still, a financial deal is almost always needed to get people to buy a car even after they fall in love with it, dealers say. 
 ''Incentives are always going to be with us even though zero-percent interest doesn't jam a showroom like it used to,'' said Jerry Seiner, president of the Jerry Seiner Dealerships in Salt Lake City, which carry every G.M. brand. Mr. Seiner has had customers who traded in a Porsche Cayenne for a Cadillac SRX, but he said they still they wanted to take advantage of special lease and payment options. 
 Audi learned that lesson when it introduced its 24-hour test drive in late January. The number of people willing to take the test drive was relatively modest until Audi began offering a competitive lease in early March.
 ''We found you can't do one without the other,'' said Russ Hill, Audi's United States sales director. ''You've always got to marry the drive with a value proposition.''
 Despite that, Mr. Hill said the program's real intent was to get people to think about Audi's cars, not just the deals, over the next few months. ''In nine months, we have a slew of new products coming,'' he said. ''We want to sell those cars, not just compete on the monthly payments.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wendy Martin talks with Chris Hemmersmeier, executive general manager for Jerry Seiner Dealerships in Salt Lake City. Ms. Martin had just test driven the Hummer in the background. (Photo by Tom Smart for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Elusive Buyers''General Motors has been unable to expand significantly its market share by offering bigger breaks for buying its vehicles.Graph tracks G.M.'s market share and the total cost of G.M. incentives from January 2002 through February 2004.(Source by Edmunds.com)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (78%); SEDANS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SALES PROSPECTING (77%); TRENDS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (65%) UTAH, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



219 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Seeks to Use Foreign Airlines

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
The Pentagon is asking Congress for the authority to award contracts to foreign airlines to move troops and equipment, a business that has always been limited to -- and been lucrative for -- American-based carriers.
 The proposal, in the Defense Department's budget request for fiscal year 2005, could have its greatest impact on the Civil Reserve Air Fleet, a group of 24 passenger and cargo carriers that sign contracts with the Pentagon each year. These airlines were instrumental in transporting military personnel and equipment to the Middle East last year before and during the Iraq war. 
 In all, American passenger and cargo carriers were paid $1.2 billion to fly nearly 500,000 troops to and from the war zone during the formal Iraq conflict. The cargo companies carried more than 161,000 tons of equipment, according to a Pentagon report last fall. 
 But they may not have a lock on the Pentagon's business for long. In its 2005 appropriations request, submitted last month, the Pentagon asked Congress to repeal a law that bars foreign-owned airlines from bidding on its contracts.
 Specifically, the Defense Department is seeking to repeal Section 2710 of the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2003. That section requires that contracts be awarded to air carriers with American ownership of 50 percent or more. That is the level that is required for airlines to be certified as domestic carriers by the Transportation Department. 
 In an analysis that accompanied its appropriations bill, the Defense Department said the limit, ''while laudable in intent,'' presents significant difficulties in practice. Before awarding contracts, the analysis said, Defense Department officials must determine whether 50 percent of an air carrier's operating revenue came from American or foreign-based interests.
 ''To determine an air carrier's controlling interest is questionable since detailed data regarding source of operating revenues is usually not available. Such information is not readily available or transparent, so contracting officers are forced to assume the risk of unknowingly violating the law,'' the analysis said.
 The analysis did not mention the reserve fleet, but industry officials said the request, if approved by Congress, could lead to competition from foreign carriers.
 Word of the request was first disclosed yesterday in an Internet newsletter, Inside the Air Force. A spokesman for the Air Force's Transportation Command, based at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois, confirmed the request.
 Participants in the reserve fleet sign up for government contracts to transport troops around the world in peacetime. In return, they agree to turn over their planes on short notice, for 30 days at a time, to move soldiers and gear during emergency wartime mobilizations.
 Two such mobilizations have been declared since President Harry S. Truman authorized the program in 1951. The first occurred in 1991, during the Persian Gulf war, and the second in 2003 when war began in Iraq.
 Last year's mobilization proved a lifeline for participating airlines, which had been battered by a drop in traffic because of fears over the outbreak of war, a weakened economy and the SARS virus. The $1.2 billion paid to the airlines during the mobilization, which lasted from February to June, was part of an overall budget of $2.4 billion in 2003 for the reserve fleet. The same amount has been allocated for 2004.
 The biggest passenger carriers participating in the reserve fleet last year were ATA Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Continental Airlines, and the charter airline World Airways, according to the Pentagon. The biggest cargo carriers taking part were Atlas, Evergreen, Polar, Gemini and World, which handled cargo as well as passengers.
 Officials at the Air Transport Association, which represents domestic airlines, did not return calls seeking comment.
 By allowing foreign carriers to bid against domestic rivals for contracts, the Pentagon could benefit in two ways, said Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y. 
 Competition could bring down the price that the military pays to transport troops, he said. American carriers transport soldiers and equipment from bases in the United States, like Dover, Del., to military installations overseas. The planes do not fly to conflict zones.
 The Pentagon pays a flat 8.5 cents a seat mile for a round-trip flight. The cost of a typical flight between Dover Air Force Base and Kuwait City was $379,965, according to the Pentagon report last year. That was for a 13,546-mile, round-trip flight using a McDonnell Douglas DC-10 with 330 seats. 
 But Mr. Mann said foreign airlines, especially charter companies, have been known to seek as little as 5 cents a seat mile for equivalent trips. The Pentagon ''may feel they can get better pricing from other suppliers,'' he said. It was not clear which foreign airlines would participate. But industry experts noted that competition in Europe between low-fare carriers and major airlines has led to excess capacity there. Meanwhile, a decline in flights to the Middle East because of the Iraq conflict could cause carriers based there to become interested in bidding for Pentagon contracts.
 The Pentagon already has the ability to grant contracts to foreign airlines case by case if no American carrier is willing to assume the risk of a flight. In the past, the Pentagon has chartered flights by Volga Dnepr Airlines of Russia and Ukrainian Cargo Airways.
 Mr. Mann said foreign airlines could provide the Pentagon with a wider supply of planes. This winter, the Pentagon encountered some reluctance by American companies to bid on individual trips that were needed to begin the rotation of troops to and from Iraq, the largest such movement since World War II. 
 The rotation requests came as airlines were adding flights to their schedule in anticipation of stronger spring and summer traffic, which can yield more in revenue than what the Pentagon pays. 
 In addition, reserve flight planes must carry double crews, because the aircraft touch down to deposit troops and equipment and take off quickly afterwards once they are repaired and refueled, not allowing enough rest time for one crew.
 There was speculation in aviation circles that the Pentagon might have to resort to another emergency mobilization. But after contacting each participant in the reserve fleet, Air Force officials were able to find enough volunteers to transport troops and equipment during the rotation period.
 But that was before comments this week by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld that the Pentagon might send more troops to Iraq. The participation of foreign airlines in the reserve fleet could provide the military with more leeway, should that be necessary, Mr. Mann said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers in line with other passengers waiting to board a United Airlines flight at Baltimore-Washington International Airport. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); APPROVALS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



220 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: NEWS ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: The Parallels of Wars Past

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 9 

 BODY:
Americans struggling to make sense, or maybe political hay, out of the violence convulsing Iraq turn almost reflexively to the searing experience of the Vietnam War. 
 Israel is haunted by another parallel: its 1982 invasion of Lebanon, which for Israelis of a certain generation was their Vietnam. It, too, was envisioned as a bold mission to combat terrorism and reshape part of this region to be stable and friendly to the West.
 ''In Lebanon, we tried to figure out what was similar to what went on in Vietnam,'' said Avraham Burg, a member of the Israeli Parliament who went to Lebanon as an officer in the paratroopers and returned to lead a movement against that war. ''You have a circle here: it's Vietnam, Lebanon and Baghdad.'' 
 The uncertain combat zones of Vietnam and Lebanon posed nightmarish challenges to soldiers. Those challenges may seem familiar to marines in Iraq as they try to sift enemies from civilians, without alienating most Iraqis. 
 ''People look at the map and they say, 'This is a desert, this isn't a jungle,' '' said Augustus Richard Norton, a professor of international relations and anthropology at Boston University. ''The point is there are functional equivalents to jungles. In this case, they're cities. They're just as impenetrable to us as the jungles were 40 years ago.''
 Dr. Norton, an expert on the Middle East, fought in Vietnam and later served as a United Nations peacekeeper in southern Lebanon.
 At a grander level, a level of global strategy and even myth-making, Iraq has echoes of Vietnam, which was presented by the White House as a test of American resolve against a rising international menace, Communism.
 But in terms of specific, stated objectives for the application of military force, Iraq looks more like Lebanon. 
 In Vietnam the Americans had a clear if shaky client, the South Vietnamese government, and an enemy, North Vietnam, with a strong political structure. 
 In Lebanon the Israelis, like the Americans in Iraq, plunged into a vacuum -- or more precisely into a maelstrom of political and religious rivalries.
 ''The problem of how to rule a society that is divided, a country that does not exist as a state with a central authority with legitimacy -- this is a problem Israel faced in the 1980's in Lebanon, and the United States now faces in Iraq,'' said Menachem Klein, a political scientist at Bar-Ilan University outside Tel Aviv.
 When they invaded, the Israelis were showered with rice by Shiites who lived in fear of Palestinian militants. Within a year, they were being bled by the Shiites, whom they failed to enlist as allies. ''In the Middle East -- as in many places around the world -- the enemy of my enemy can be my enemy as well,'' Mr. Burg said.
 Noting that tens of thousands of Americans died in Vietnam, Dr. Norton said, ''The Vietnam parallel is a bit of a stretch, in terms of scale. But I do think the Lebanon one is striking.''
 It may be the Americans in Iraq need now to learn lessons from the Israeli experience in Lebanon that veterans like Mr. Burg feel the Israelis should have learned from the American experience in Vietnam. But the differences among the three conflicts may prove more significant than the similarities. 
 For example, some experts argued that in Lebanon, pragmatic Shiites never had the backing of a clerical authority on the order of Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani of Iraq. Mr. Sistani, who sees in the American pledge of democracy a chance for Iraq's Shiite majority to gain effective control, has appealed for calm.
 ''The mainstream clerical clout is really with Sistani,'' said Martin Kramer, an authority on Islam and Arab politics. ''That's a tremendous advantage the United States has in dealing with the Shia.''
 In Lebanon before the Israelis came, as in Iraq under Saddam Hussein, the Shiites were an economic underclass deprived of political power, despite their growing numbers. 
 In the 1970's, a Shiite movement called Amal began working within the Lebanese political system. It was led by a reform-minded cleric named Moussa al-Sadr, a distant relative of Moktada al-Sadr, who is now leading an insurrection against the Americans in Iraq. 
 By the late 1970's, Amal, which means ''hope'' in Arabic, was trying to protect Shiites in southern Lebanon -- not against Israel, but against Palestinian militants who had established bases there. 
 Dr. Norton argued that it was not a lack of mainstream Shiite clerics but rather Israel's failure to cultivate the Shiites that led to their radicalization. Israel had little feel for the divisions within Lebanese society. It allied itself with elite Christians, fanning the Shiite sense of deprivation. 
 The Israelis achieved a central goal, driving the Palestine Liberation Organization out of Lebanon, from where it was waging attacks on Israel. But Israel's ambitious regional plan -- to turn Lebanon into an ally -- collapsed with the assassination of its choice as Lebanese president, Bashir Gemayel, a Christian. 
 Israeli troops hunkered down in southern Lebanon, where a new, militant Shiite movement, Hezbollah -- ''the party of God'' -- began picking them off. 
 Backed by Iran and Syria, Hezbollah militants, camouflaged among noncombatants, pounded away at the wedge between the local Arab population and the occupying Israeli Army. Israel responded to Hezbollah attacks with checkpoints, searches, and raids into mosques that drove civilians into the arms of Hezbollah.
 Dr. Norton argued that a ''tipping point'' came more than a year after the invasion, on October 16, 1983. That day, an Israeli military convoy provoked a riot in Nabatiya when it tried to drive, honking, through tens of thousands of Shiite worshipers gathered to celebrate their most important holiday, Ashura. 
 ''It was a moment when people could no longer sit on the fence,'' Dr. Norton said. ''And that is what I sense has happened in Iraq. Now I think you have passed the point where many of those centrists or moderates who were sitting on the fence could afford to do so.''
 The problem for Israel became how to get out of Lebanon, much as the United States faced the problem of extricating itself from Vietnam. 
 The continuing Hezbollah fire claimed, on average, fewer than 31 soldiers' lives annually. But Israel could not vanquish the group, and as political pressure grew at home it finally left southern Lebanon after 18 years. Its retreat from Lebanon in May 2000 might have contributed to the Palestinian uprising by persuading Palestinians that Israel would respond only to force, analysts say. 
 Dr. Klein argued that the United States should leave Iraq ''as soon as possible,'' even at risk of criticism as failing to achieve all its goals. ''It is better to face this argument than to have higher losses in the future,'' he said. 
 But Dr. Eran Lerman, the head of the American Jewish Committee's office here and a retired colonel in Israeli military intelligence, said that any suggestion of an American departure would be a disaster for the mission.
 ''Conveying the image of permanence is tremendously important in the short run,'' he said. ''For an Iraqi to provide the U.S. government with information, and then to find he has been left to a cruel fate at the hands of a new Iraqi power structure, is precisely the sort of thing that destroys the intelligence gathering and operational cycle.''
 Mr. Burg, the former Israeli paratrooper, noted that next week President Bush is to meet with the man who commanded the Israeli operation in Lebanon, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, then the minister of defense.
 ''In '82, it was Sharon who didn't learn from the American experience in Vietnam and was doomed to repeat it,'' said Mr. Burg, a leader of the left-leaning Labor Party and a critic of Mr. Sharon's. ''Here is George W. Bush, who didn't learn from Sharon's experience in '82.''
 Each man, he said, may now hope for a political boost from the other.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1982, Ariel Sharon, then Israel's defense minister, explained the invasion of Lebanon. Israel left 18 years later, driving out the Palestine Liberation Organization but failing to turn Lebanon into an ally. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TERRORISM (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) VIET NAM (96%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



221 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Nepal Police Seize 1,000 Marchers At Antimonarchy Rally in Capital

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 9 

 BODY:
With opposition to Nepal's monarchist government growing in intensity, more than 1,000 people were detained Friday in Katmandu, the capital, for violating a ban on public gatherings that was imposed this week. 
 As many as 25,000 demonstrators defied the ban, according to news agency reports, capping a week of pro-democracy, antimonarchy protests. 
 Nepal has been embroiled in a civil war between Maoist rebels and the government that has left more than 9,500 people dead, at least one-fourth of them since a cease-fire broke down at the end of August. And it has been mired in a standoff between the five main opposition political parties and King Gyanendra that began when the king dismissed the elected prime minister and dissolved Parliament in October 2002. 
 Scheduled elections were postponed and have yet to be held, and efforts at rapprochement have failed. 
 Growing public frustration has led to the widespread expression of public sentiment against the king, who has historically been seen as a unifying force in Nepal. On April 4, the police injured more than 150 people when they used truncheons, rubber bullets and tear gas against protesters marching on the palace and chanting antimonarchist slogans. 
 The king returned to Katmandu on Friday after a two-week tour of the country's western districts.
 The Maoists, meanwhile, have stepped up their attacks on police posts and government centers in other areas of the country. They have also been undertaking large-scale, if usually temporary, abductions of civilians to indoctrinate them. 
 Last weekend the Maoists also attacked Indian oil trucks after the Indian police arrested a senior Maoist leader in Kolkata, India. 
 The State Department warned Americans this week against traveling to Nepal after two reports that American trekkers had been detained by the Maoists. The United States is providing $17 million in military aid to the government. 
 The important tourist economy is already suffering from the insurgency, and the Maoists have called crippling strikes this month in Katmandu and across the country.


GRAPHIC: Map of Nepal highlighting Katmandu: Protesters in Katmandu called for a quick return to democracy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); ARRESTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) NEPAL (99%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



222 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Route To Prosperity: Grow Poppies

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: SHORABAK, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Rahmatullah trudged toward his village with his donkey, as men across Afghanistan have done for centuries. But in this century, men in Jeeps and on motorbikes were passing him by.
 So this year Rahmatullah, a 37-year-old father of three, speaking in front of the village mosque and its mullah, said he would join his neighbors in growing poppies to harvest Afghanistan's most lucrative cash crop, opium.
 His hierarchy of dreams is all sketched out. First he will pay off some $1,200 in debt. Then he will build a house to replace the one room he shares with his family, then buy cows for plowing. 
 ''Then, if I get richer, I'll buy a car,'' he finished, eyes agleam.
 Across Afghanistan, opium cultivation is surging, defying all efforts of the Afghan government and international officials to stop it. Officials are predicting that land under poppy cultivation will rise by 30 percent or more this year, possibly yielding a record crop. Last year the country produced almost 4,000 tons -- three-fourths of the world's opium -- in 28 of its 32 provinces. The trade generated $1 billion for farmers and $1.3 billion for traffickers, according to the United Nations, more than half of Afghanistan's national income.
 The expansion of the trade presents a gathering threat to the new democratic government and a severe challenge to the American and international forces here. But American officials, reluctant to open a new front in the campaign against terror or engage in an antidrug war here, are conflicted about how aggressively to combat it. 
 Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador, said in a recent interview that with Afghanistan's elections approaching -- they are now scheduled for September -- ''the politics of it may require not to go too harsh'' with eradication.
 But as opium production underpins ever more of Afghanistan's economic life, from new business growth to home construction, officials also fear that the economic and political risks of uprooting it will only increase. To the chagrin of Afghan and international officials, the narcotics industry has far outpaced the legal reconstruction of Afghanistan, with a capitalist intensity they would otherwise applaud.
 It has lured private capital for investment and created a free-market system. With Thuraya satellite phones, farmers in distant Kandahar, a rival source of poppy in the south, know almost in real time about changing weather conditions here in this northeastern province, Badakshan, and adjust prices accordingly.
 Landowners and traffickers offer credit to farmers willing to grow poppy. Trafficking has linked Afghanistan to the global economy. It even brought the first real industry here, a heroin processing laboratory that villagers estimated had operated for six months to a year before it was destroyed by Afghan and British forces in January. One local referred to it as ''the company.''
 Afghanistan's opium production peaked under the Taliban, who partly financed their movement from the profits. But in July 2000 the Taliban banned opium cultivation, to the distress of many farmers, and the price soared. 
 Many experts say the ban was simply meant to drive the price up, amounting to an effective cornering of the market for the Taliban and others who had amassed stockpiles.
 British and Afghan officials are now counting on mullahs to spread the word that it is haram, or forbidden, under Islam to cultivate opiates. But interviews in many villages found that such preachings were ignored. Other mullahs were growing it themselves.
 For many Afghans, poppy has allowed for piety. A United Nations report on Afghanistan's opium economy noted that 85 percent of opium traders surveyed had performed the hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca that is incumbent on every Muslim but too costly for most Afghans.
 The growth in opium production is among the gravest threats facing the administration of President Hamid Karzai. It has corrupted the government from bottom to top, including governors and cabinet officials, according to senior Afghan and American officials.
 American and Afghan officials say opium is financing warlords like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, local militias, the Taliban and possibly Al Qaeda.
 Even as some American officials remain wary of fighting the spread of opium too aggressively, others have criticized the British, who have taken the lead against the drug trade here, for being too soft and slow on eradicating poppy crops. A British plan in 2002 to compensate farmers for eradication is widely seen to have acted as a ''perverse incentive'' to grow, as one official put it.
 Citing the link between narcotics and terrorism, United Nations and British officials, meanwhile, are urging the American-led military alliance to take on laboratories and traffickers. The Americans, who will put $73 million toward antidrug operations in Afghanistan this year, say such an approach will simply send the laboratories over the border to places like Pakistan's tribal areas, while doing nothing to stop the surge in new cultivation.
 But an American official also pointed out that many of those in the drug trade ''are the guys who helped us liberate this place in 2001'' from the Taliban and on whom the American military continues to rely in its hunt for the Taliban and Al Qaeda. 
 ''The military just does not want to go down that road,'' he said.
 Ideally, officials say, eradication efforts would focus on wealthy landowners growing poppy, not poor farmers. But many struggling farmers have become sharecroppers on the vast fields of the rich and would share the punishment, just as they share the profit.
 The American forces have so far limited their intervention against traffickers and laboratories to encounters as they come across them in the course of other military action.
 But Lt. Gen. David Barno, the commander of the American-led forces, said in March that his troops were finding growing connections between extremism and drugs, which could augur a more assertive approach to the drug trade.
 Afghan commando units, with British support, have recently raided as many as 30 laboratories in Nangarhar Province, often meeting well-armed resistance. An American A-10 attack plane shelled ''the company'' -- the processing laboratory near here -- when the British and Afghan commandos raided that site.
 As the effort to treat the laboratories as targets increases, officials expect violence to rise. American officials say raids on laboratories have already provoked conflict among drug traffickers convinced that their competitors informed on them.
 Recent fighting in the Argo district prompted the removal of the governor and police chief after officials in Kabul, the capital, concluded that the two men were working for rival traffickers.
 The opium trade is transforming life in Argo, a remote district in Badakshan where a cover of green poppies climbs up steep, desolate hills. The street that runs through the bazaar is mud, but the $200 television sets in the stalls glitter.
 In the last four years, said Abdul Rahman, 18, poppy provided his family with a motorbike, a television, an electric generator, a VCR and a CD player -- and a new house to hold it all. Last year his family accumulated $4,000 in poppy profits.
 Badakshan, here in the north, lays bare narcotics' distorting economic effects. Poppy cultivation has driven up dowry prices and raised the cost of labor so much that wheat was not harvested last year.
 So many people are building new homes and businesses with their poppy profits that Atiqullah, 23, a mason, said his daily rate had doubled.
 Criminal calculation is partly driving the spread of the drug trade. Residents of Pashtun-inhabited regions long known for poppy growing have turned into outlaw Johnny Appleseeds, crossing the country with loans, expertise and seedpods to generate more opium for heroin laboratories, American and United Nations officials and Afghan farmers say.
 But a calculus of human longing is also at work. With the price of opium stubbornly stuck at more than $135 a pound, no legal crop can compete.
 ''We see in Daryan'' -- a district thick with poppy -- ''other people getting rich,'' said Rahmatullah, who like many Afghans uses one name. ''Their life is better. We want to make our life better too.''
 Today, growing poppies is less about survival -- as it was during a drought in this country -- than about upward mobility. It is about a new consumer class and an even larger class of aspirants to it.
 ''Those who had a donkey have a motorbike,'' said Ahmed Shah, a young farmer in Badakshan. ''Those who had a motorbike have a car. Those who have one wife want a second one.''
 In Dari, the local language, there is a saying: if your donkey lags behind, cut his ear off. It reflects, Afghans say, the central role of envy in their culture -- and in cultivation.
 The Shomali Plain, just north of Kabul, is full of first-time growers, many of them mujahedeen soldiers. A young commander, Mayel, denied that he was growing poppy, then whispered in earshot of a translator that he was too ashamed to admit that he was.
 ''We see the people in the south and east getting rich,'' he told a confidant with righteous logic. ''Why shouldn't we cultivate too?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mahbul, 12, helping to weed his father's poppy field on the Shomali Plain north of Kabul. Opium cultivation is surging across Afghanistan, defying all efforts of Afghan and international officials to stop it. (Photo by Amy Waldman/The New York Times)(pg. A5)Map of Afghanistan highlighting Shorabak: Opium production is the first real industry in villages like Shorabak. (pg. A5)Chart: ''Afghanistan and Opium''The drops in 2001 resulted from a ban imposed by the Taliban, and drove up the price of opium tenfold.Graph tracks the opium poppy cultivation from 1990 - 2003.Graph tracks the opium production from 1990 - 2003.(Source by United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime)(pg. A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HEROIN (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); RELIGION (72%); DRUG POLICY (69%); POLITICS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



223 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Piracy and Terrorism

 BODY:
Piracy, these days, refers more often to digital miscreants who copy music and movies than to skull-and-crossbones derring-do on the high seas. But pirates of the old-fashioned variety, armed with automatic weapons, are not only a real and growing menace, they are also suspected of forging links with global terrorists. A greater effort is needed on the part of governments and private shippers worldwide to secure their harbors, ships and sea lanes. 
 Thinly staffed tankers and container ships carrying valuable cargo are irresistible prey on the high seas, especially where pirates can count on lax policing or corrupt officials who turn a blind eye. The biggest problem is in Southeast Asia, particularly around Indonesia, where tankerloads of crude oil are regularly stolen. Indeed, piracy has become one of globalization's most serious forms of organized crime, and a magnet for terrorists.
 Al Qaeda, which attacked the American destroyer Cole in 2000 and the French oil tanker Limburg in 2002, is thought to have planned attacks on major ports. A hijacked ship carrying a nuclear weapon or radioactive ''dirty bomb'' could lay waste to a port, or block a sea lane like the Strait of Malacca, a narrow channel between Malaysia and Indonesia that carries a quarter of the world's trade and half of all its oil flows. In one indication that terrorists might be planning such an attack, 10 armed men seized a chemical tanker off Indonesia in March 2003 apparently for the purpose of learning to steer it -- a frightening echo of the flying lessons taken by the Sept. 11 terrorists.
 In response to Sept. 11, the 163 members of the International Maritime Organization agreed in 2002 to measures like shipboard security officers, ship-to-shore alert systems and port security plans. It is likely, however, that many countries will fail to comply by the July 1 deadline or will prove unwilling to enforce the agreement.
 Securing the world's most vulnerable shipping lanes requires multilateral coordination. Last week Adm. Thomas Fargo, the commander of American forces in the Pacific, told a Congressional committee that the Navy was considering armed patrols in the Strait of Malacca. American diplomats had to smooth ruffled feathers in Malaysia, whose government hadn't been consulted.
 The costs of failure in securing the high seas could be huge -- shipping accounts for 80 percent of all trade. A major disruption could cripple the global economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); MARITIME PIRACY (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BULK SHIPPING (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); ADMIRALTY LAW (79%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); DIRTY BOMBS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); AL-QAEDA (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



224 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: First-Quarter Profit Rose 9.4% at SunTrust

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
SunTrust Banks, the first of the 10 largest banks in the United States to post first-quarter results, has reported that profit rose 9.4 percent as consumer lending increased, bad loans declined and fees from managing investments rose. 
 Net income rose to $358.5 million, or $1.26 a share, from $327.8 million, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier. 
Revenue rose 5.7 percent, to $1.46 billion. 
 The bank set aside less money for bad loans, and the spread widened between interest earned on loans and interest paid on deposits, the chief executive, L. Phillip Humann, said on a conference call with investors and analysts on Thursday, when the results were released. 
 SunTrust's earnings declined in two of the three previous quarters as low interest rates narrowed the bank's lending margin. 
 ''We've put last year's earnings pressures behind us and have moved into a time of improving performance,'' Mr. Humann said on the conference call. ''Almost across the board, positive earnings trends that began to emerge toward the end of last year continue to accelerate.'' 
 SunTrust was expected to earn $1.23 a share, according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. 
 SunTrust set aside $59.4 million for loan losses in the quarter, a 27 percent decline from a year earlier. The bank wrote off $58.8 million in bad loans, 26 percent less than in the year-earlier period. 
 Total average loans increased 9.4 percent, to $79.9 billion, as lending to midsize companies and individuals increased. Loan demand in the mortgage operations increased as low interest rates led more people to refinance, Mr. Humann said. 
 Lending income increased 3.5 percent, to $851.6 million, and fee income rose 8.7 percent, to $595 million, from the quarter a year ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SUNTRUST BANKS INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%)

TICKER: STI (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



225 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Viagra Gains Some Advocates As Treatment For Lung Disease

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Diane Adkins, who has a life-threatening lung disease, used to take a drug that cost more than $100,000 a year and that had to be pumped round the clock into a vein through a hole in her chest. Now she has replaced it with a pill that costs about $10,000 a year. 
 But her insurance company will not pay for the cheaper drug, even though it paid for the more expensive one. As the company explained in a letter, ''Your benefit program covers this medication for men over the age of eighteen (18) only.'' 
 The drug is Viagra. Wisecracks aside, the blue pill that treats erectile dysfunction, a common but less than fatal male malady, may have a new role in treating pulmonary hypertension, a rare but deadly disease that afflicts mainly women. 
 Results of a clinical trial in India, published this week in The Journal of the American College of Cardiology, showed that Viagra increased the ability of patients to exercise by about 40 percent. The authors said that was greater than the effect seen with other drugs in different trials. Although the trial involved only 22 patients, it was the first randomized test to compare Viagra against a placebo for pulmonary hypertension, the journal said. 
 Pfizer, the manufacturer of Viagra, said it expected results of its own much larger and more definitive trial around the middle of the year. Investigators expect to present results at the American Heart Association's annual meeting in November. 
 But because doctors are allowed to prescribe a drug for any use, once it wins regulatory approval, some are already using Viagra for pulmonary hypertension. The drug is even being given to babies.
 ''I thought it was a joke,'' said Drew Walen of Nashville, recalling his reaction when a doctor told him to give the drug daily to his infant son, George, whose lungs did not develop properly because of a congenital problem. 
 Pulmonary hypertension is different from hypertension, the common condition of high blood pressure. The pulmonary disease involves extremely high pressure in the artery that carries blood from the heart to the lungs to pick up oxygen. The disease, also called pulmonary arterial hypertension, can make even routine tasks an ordeal. 
 ''I got to the point where I couldn't change my clothes without getting out of breath,'' said Ms. Adkins, a 48-year old vice president at a floor-covering company who lives in Jensen Beach, Fla.
 For Pfizer, approval of Viagra as a treatment for pulmonary hypertension could ease some of the criticism that drug companies focus too much on so-called lifestyle drugs. In a small way, it could help buttress Viagra sales as new competitors eat into the market for impotence medications. It also might help Pfizer extend the patent protection on the drug.
 Some doctors and insurance companies say they have concerns about this use of Viagra, saying it has not been proved effective in rigorous clinical trials, whereas other drugs have. Patients with pulmonary hypertension use the drug every day and in higher doses than men who use it before sex, potentially raising new risks. 
 ''I have some ethical issues in using an experimental drug in place of an approved drug,'' said Dr. Richard Channick of the University of California, San Diego, who said Viagra was being overused. Dr. Channick is a consultant to Actelion, a Swiss company with an approved drug for the disease. 
 Robert Wanovich, manager of clinical services at Highmark, Ms. Adkins's insurer, said Viagra was not covered because it had not been proved to work for pulmonary hypertension. He conceded, however, that because insurance claims do not specify how a drug is being used, a man using Viagra for the lung disease could be reimbursed ''and we would never know.'' 
 Though only about 100,000 people in the United States and Europe have pulmonary hypertension, three drugs have already been approved for the condition and several others are on the way. Executives attribute the high degree of competition for treating such a rare disease to two factors. First, the disease has become better understood. And second, if a drug has a high enough price and is taken every day, sales can reach several hundred million dollars a year, even in a small group of patients. 
 ''A patient population that looks like 100,000 has the equivalent economic value of a million patients or more,'' said Dr. Bruce D. Given, chief executive of Encysive Pharmaceuticals, which is developing a drug for the disease.
 Roland Haefeli, spokesman for Actelion, said the patient population might grow because doctors, who often miss the condition, are looking more carefully now that treatments are available. 
 Though far from cures for pulmonary hypertension, the new drugs have helped improve the outlook for patients. 
 ''In 1999, what I would have said to you is that 50 percent of patients die within two years of diagnosis,'' said Rino Aldrighetti, president of the Pulmonary Hypertension Association, a patient group. ''Now we are looking at five years.'' 
 Some doctors say they prescribe Viagra because it has worked in small trials, is generally safe and can be cheaper than the approved drugs. 
 ''We've used it a lot empirically, and it does work,'' said Dr. Robyn J. Barst, an expert on pulmonary hypertension at Columbia University and a lead investigator in the Pfizer trials. 
 Pfizer said it would sell a pulmonary hypertension drug under a different name and in a different form from Viagra to prevent prescription errors. Investigators in the clinical trials said the drug was being provided as a round white pill, not a blue diamond-shaped one, and in doses different from those used for erectile dysfunction. 
 Joel W. Morris, a Pfizer spokesman, said the company had not decided whether the pulmonary drug would sell for a higher price than Viagra, known generically as sildenafil citrate. 
 Pulmonary hypertension is the only new use for which Pfizer is testing the drug. The company recently dropped tests on Viagra for female sexual dysfunction, a potentially huge market, after results were disappointing. Viagra, which had worldwide sales last year of $1.9 billion, faces competition from two new drugs for erectile dysfunction, Cialis and Levitra, which together claim a third of new prescriptions in the United States. 
 Given the small patient population, sales of Viagra for pulmonary hypertension are not expected to be that big for Pfizer. Mr. Morris, the Pfizer spokesman, said the company was pursuing the lung disease treatment because there was an unmet medical need and because the company had been urged to do so by doctors, who had begun testing the drug on their own.
 But he conceded that under American law, the company might get a longer respite from generic competition for Viagra because it was testing the drug in children, something that can be done for pulmonary hypertension but not for erectile dysfunction. 
 The first drug approved for pulmonary hypertension, in 1995, was Flolan, a version of a natural hormone called prostacyclin, which dilates constricted blood vessels. It is made by GlaxoSmithKline. 
 Flolan, which was also the first drug Ms. Adkins took for her condition, disappears from the body so fast that it must be pumped in 24 hours a day. The catheter used poses a risk of infection, and users must carry a small pump and mix a fresh batch of the drug every day. 
 The annual cost, roughly $100,000, can also be a hardship. Merle Reeseman of Grove City, Pa., said that when her insurer would not pay for Flolan, she had to separate from her husband of more than 30 years to qualify for Medicaid, which pays for the drug. 
 ''The only way they would allow it was if I basically became destitute,'' she said. ''This just isn't fair.'' 
 Another of the new drugs, Remodulin, is a form of prostacyclin infused under the skin rather than through a catheter. That method lowers the infection risk, but many patients complain of pain. The drug was approved in 2002, and sales were $45.1 million last year. The developer, United Therapeutics of Silver Spring, Md., estimated that about 450 Americans were taking Remodulin at the end of 2003, versus about 2,550 taking Flolan. 
 CoTherix of South San Francisco, Calif., said it planned to apply to the F.D.A. this year for approval of an inhaled form of prostacyclin already sold in Europe by Schering. 
 The first oral drug, approved in 2001, was Tracleer from Actelion; it inhibits endothelin, a hormone that helps constrict blood vessels. Sales in 2003 were 300 million Swiss francs, or about $235 million. 
 Though much cheaper than the two other approved drugs, Tracleer still costs about $35,000 a year and can cause liver problems, so users must have their liver enzymes checked every month. 
 Encysive, based in Houston, and Myogen, based in Westminster, Colo., are developing pills that they hope will inhibit endothelin more effectively than Tracleer. Encysive's drug, sitaxsentan, is well into the final stage of testing while ambrisentan from Myogen has just entered that stage. 
 Viagra works by yet another mechanism, inhibiting an enzyme called phosphodiesterase 5. The drug relaxes blood vessels, allowing blood to flow into the penis -- or, it is hoped, into the lungs. 
 Such a use would be a return to Viagra's roots. The drug was originally tested for angina, a cardiovascular condition, and proved disappointing. But some men in the trials reported a side effect: erections. 
 Dr. Michael McGoon of the Mayo Clinic said the approved drugs typically allow someone who cannot climb even one flight of stairs to climb a flight or more, but ''don't return anybody to what they would perceive as normal health.'' 
 Results with Viagra are ''extremely variable,'' he said, adding, ''It's not a miracle.''
 Viagra, Dr. McGoon said, may be as effective as other drugs but at a lower cost. Some experts said it was likely that different drugs would be used in combination. 
 But Ms. Adkins swears by Viagra. She said she had spent $5,000 on the drug and had hired a lawyer to press her insurer to pay. ''I told them I was going to get a sex change,'' she said. ''They would probably pay for the sex change.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: George Whalen, 19 months, takes Viagra and other drugs for a rare condition. (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Diane Adkins has battled with her insurer over payments for Viagra, which her doctor prescribed to treat a rare lung condition. (Photo by William Thomas Cain for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''New Competition''Viagra has dominated the market for treatment of erectile dysfunction since it was introduced in 1998. But, two new drugs have become available in the last six months, eating into Viagra's sales.Graph tracks total prescriptions, (weekly), for Viagra, Cialis, and Levitra from August 2003 through March 2004.(Source by NDCHealth)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESPIRATORY DISEASE (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); HYPERTENSION (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); MEN (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (73%); CARDIOLOGY (72%); APPROVALS (70%); CHILDREN (68%); WRITERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); PATENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COLLEGE OF CARDIOLOGY (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



226 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: A Shortage of Seasonal Workers Is Feared

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Even as economists worry about the lackluster growth in employment, and politicians rail against the loss of jobs to overseas outsourcing, many employers across the country are sounding alarms about an impending shortage of foreign temporary workers this summer.
 From roe processors in Alaska to innkeepers in Martha's Vineyard to landscaping contractors in Arkansas, businesses are beseeching Congress to raise the ceiling on the number of visas for seasonal workers. 
 With this year's limit of 66,000 already reached, the employers are pressing for an immediate increase. Otherwise, many of the companies say, their businesses will be in jeopardy -- and so will the jobs of many Americans who also work for those businesses. 
 ''Six hundred to 700 American jobs are at stake if I can't get the six foreign technicians that I need,'' said Larry Nelson, the president of Great Northern Sea Products. The company employs Japanese specialists during the summer at processing plants in Alaska to grade and sort salmon roe for sale in Japan.
 Employers began writing panicked letters to members of Congress last month after the Department of Homeland Security clamped off this year's program of H-2B temporary visas for foreign workers, announcing it had reached the 66,000 limit, six months before the end of the fiscal year of 2004. 
 It is the first time since the H-2B visa program began 14 years ago that the annual limit has been reached, and the reasons are disputed. Employers and their Congressional supporters say that Americans often do not want the temporary positions, which provide no benefits and typically last for only a few months.
 Those in the opposite camp say that the employers simply want cheaper foreign workers and could get local applicants if they simply paid more.
 In any case, companies say that unless the limit is lifted soon, it will be too late to help them meet summer demand for camp counselors, bellhops, casino workers, shellfish shuckers and similar positions. At least three bills have been introduced in Congress in recent weeks to relax the H-2B restrictions. But some members of the House and Senate are strongly opposing such measures. And even supporters have found it hard to push for hiring even temporary foreign workers in the face of a labor market that remains dismal -- despite the surprisingly strong March jobs data released last week. 
 Under the H-2B system, before bringing in foreign workers, businesses must demonstrate that they tried to hire local people, for instance by putting ads in newspapers. Once the Department of Labor agrees that an employer has a legitimate need to look abroad, the company must still submit a request to the Department of Homeland Security. Only after approval at that stage can a worker apply for visa at a United States consulate or an embassy overseas. Even if Homeland Security puts a case on a fast track -- which costs businesses $1,000 an application -- the procedure takes about 90 days.
 Businesses are not allowed to apply for foreign workers until 120 days before they will need them. Many summer employers found that by the time they could start this year's process, many of the visas had already gone to ski instructors, hockey players and other winter workers. Those left in the lurch included North Carolina crab processors, Virginia hoteliers and helicopter operators working for fire departments across the West. 
 Groups conducting letter-writing campaigns to Congress have included the Associated Landscape Contractors of America, whose members dispatched form letters arguing that without the foreign labor, ''we will not have the workers needed to complete landscaping contacts this spring, summer and fall.'' 
 William Hunt, the president of National Filter Service, a maker of heating and air-conditioning filters in Fork Union, Va., sent a letter to Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, who has been a leading opponent of lifting the visa limit. ''Pulling the rug from under us now,'' Mr. Hunt wrote, ''will severely and possibly mortally impact our company, our customers and our employees.'' 
 Efforts to increase the number of temporary workers sit uncomfortably against the backdrop of the lackluster American labor market, which has lagged even as the economy has grown stronger. Despite 308,000 new jobs created in March, employment remains about two million below the peak of three years ago.
 So even those members of Congress who supported the employers have been careful to argue that extending the H-2B visa plan would not harm American workers. On March 29, Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Representative Bill Delahunt, both Democrats of Massachusetts, submitted the Save the Summer Act, which would immediately raise the cap of the H-2B visas to 106,000 for this year only. The legislation has bipartisan support, with 18 co-sponsors in the Senate and 13 in the House.
 But Mr. Kennedy has taken pains to distance the bill from the broader issue of unemployment and foreign competition.
 ''H-2B jobs have no relation to the U.S. jobs being lost to outsourcing,'' Mr. Kennedy said in an e-mail response to a reporter's questions. ''The jobs are highly local and supplement the work of permanent U.S. employees. They're temporary jobs with low pay and few or no benefits, and American workers aren't willing to accept them.''
 Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, with 12 Republican co-sponsors, introduced his own bill, the Summer Operations and Services Relief and Reform Act. It would exclude from this year's cap all foreign workers returning from the last two seasons -- freeing visas for new workers. In introducing the bill Mr. Hatch said that rather than being seen as a threat to American workers, the fact the visa ceiling was reached was perhaps ''a sign of our economy's increasing vitality.''
 A third bill, submitted by Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, with nine bipartisan co-sponsors, would let employers who used H-2B workers last year receive the same number again this year -- regardless of the overall cap.
 But the opposition is galvanized. On Thursday, some Republican senators including Mr. Sessions and Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican, squelched efforts to submit the Hatch bill to a vote.
 In an interview yesterday, Mr. Sessions said that efforts to raise the visa ceiling were misguided, given the bleak employment picture. 
 ''Kennedy wants an increase in the minimum wage,'' Mr. Sessions said. But if you put in a huge amount of new labor you drive down good wages.'' He was also dismissive of the supporters' sense of urgency, noting that a shortage of maids in hotels in Martha's Vineyard could hardly be qualified as ''a crisis for America.''
 Even some people who are normally Mr. Kennedy's allies are uncomfortable with his stance on the issue. 
 ''It seems some of these resorts could recruit U.S. workers if they paid better wages,'' said Michelle Waslin, an immigration policy analyst at the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group. The H-2B plan, she added, ''just gives businesses the ability to bring cheaper workers from abroad.''


GRAPHIC: Illustrations (Illustrations by Mark Kseniak for The New York Times)''The Butcher, The Baker, The Poultry EvisceratorThe H-2B visa designation is a category used for foreign workers hired temporarily to perform a variety of jobs that employers say cannot be filled locally. Here is a sampling of the types of jobs for which the Department of Labor allowed companies to request H-2B visas in fiscal 2003. Not all of those requests were granted by immigration officials.Landscape laborer: 36,299Stable attendant: 4,957Circus laborer: 2,380Shellfish shucker: 1,432Musicians and singers: 775Lifeguard: 528Swimming pool servicer: 270Gambling dealer: 200Sales clerk: 131Animal trainer: 130Snowmaker: 129Professional-athletics coach: 125Camp counselor: 96Butcher: 67Poultry eviscerator: 48Flight attendants: 46Baker: 38Helicopter pilot: 28Golf range attendant: 22Beekeeper: 12Horseshoer: 2Professional athlete: 1(Source by Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEASONAL WORKERS (91%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); CASINOS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



227 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Prices for Plywood, and Its Alternative, Keep Pushing Higher

BYLINE: By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 9 

 BODY:
Lumber and plywood prices have shot up so rapidly in recent months that they are tearing the profit out of home construction for some builders and threatening to dent the booming housing market.
 Paul Kuszmaul, president of Kuszmaul Builders in Champion, Ohio, said the run-up in prices had left him unsure whether to push ahead with a condominium development in the Mahoning Valley, between Pittsburgh and Cleveland.
 Since January, he said, the cost to build each condo unit in the project had risen $4,000, largely because the price has more than doubled for oriented-strand board, a widely used substitute for plywood made by pressing long wood strips together using adhesives. 
 The product has been rapidly displacing plywood as a construction material because it is cheaper to make, can be made from the limbs and roots of trees as well as trunks, and is more uniform in quality. Almost three-fifths of all structural wood panels now sold are oriented-strand board, or O.S.B., compared with a quarter in the early 1990's. 
 Prices of both O.S.B. and plywood reached records this week. According to Random Lengths, a trade publication in Eugene, Ore., 1,000 square feet of 7/16 -inch O.S.B. -- 31 four-by-eight sheets -- sell for $503 in the north-central United States; this time last year, the price was $170. Half-inch four-ply southern pine plywood is up to $523 for 1,000 square feet, from $240 a year ago. 
 Plywood prices began to rise last year in late May and early June, dropping late in the year, before increasing sharply in January.
 Prices of other types of lumber have also risen, though less sharply. And the buoyant metals markets, especially for steel, have also driven up home-building costs. 
 ''It's almost a rocket ship ride,'' said Jim Enright, general sales manager at Rosboro Lumber, a plywood manufacturer in Springfield, Ore. ''The activity level since the beginning of the year has been phenomenal.''
 The ride has been less exhilarating for buyers. Brian Catalde, president of Paragon Communities, a builder in Playa del Rey, Calif., said that the cost of the lumber used in building a typical entry-level home had roughly doubled in 18 months, to $24,000.
 Dave Wilson, president of Wilson Construction, a builder of luxury homes in Ketchum, Idaho, said, ''We're stuck with a commodity that we have to have,'' which means, ''we have to pay whatever they charge.''
 A handful of manufacturers dominate the O.S.B. market. Five companies -- Louisiana Pacific, Weyerhaeuser, Georgia-Pacific, and two Canadian groups, Nexfor and Grant Forest Products -- account for three-quarters of all sales in North America. 
 One reason for the price surge is that production of the boards has not grown fast enough to make up for the loss of plywood because of the closing of older plants. 
 Only one new board plant is scheduled to begin production in North America this year, in Oklahoma, and having the material shipped from Europe makes it too expensive. 
 ''The issue is really one of production capacity,'' said Michael Carliner, chief economist at the National Home Builders Association in Washington. 
 Charles Gordon, a spokesman for Nexfor, based in Toronto, said that O.S.B. manufacturers were able to exercise more discipline in the marketplace than the much larger number of producers of other types of lumber. 
 In spite of the surge in prices and the shortage of capacity, Nexfor has no plans for new mills, Mr. Gordon said. ''At this time, our strategy is more to buy than to build,'' he said. Last month Nexfor bought out its 50-50 partner in a mill in Bemidji, Minn.
 On top of several years of robust demand from home builders, the Department of Defense placed larger orders for structural panels last summer for military use in Iraq and elsewhere in the Middle East, as tent floors among other things. 
 Inventories fell sharply in November and December, but lumberyards began ordering heavily again in January, pushing prices higher.
 Now, many builders are scrambling to order materials long before they will need the items so they can protect themselves from further price rises.
 ''If you haven't bought your lumber,'' said Mr. Wilson, the Idaho builder, ''it could have a pretty damaging effect on your business.''
 He said he had placed an order two weeks ago for several hundred thousand dollars worth of lumber, panels and beams for a 15,000-square-foot home that his company is about to start building in Sun Valley. Since then, he said, prices have climbed 10 percent. 
 Mr. Carliner of the builders' association said the run-up in prices was more likely to damp the home-renovation market than new construction, because proportionally, remodeling and additions tend to be more lumber-intensive. 
 Mr. Kuszmaul, the Ohio builder, said with the local economy in the doldrums and builders competing for business, it was hard to pass cost increases along to customers. 
 ''Most of the guys have just been eating it,'' he said of his fellow builders.
 But Mr. Wilson in Idaho said he had little problem passing the cost increases onto his customers. ''We don't see a softening here at all,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''It seems to be very resilient.'' Home buyers, he said, seem more willing to pay a higher purchase price now than risk a more costly mortgage by waiting. 
 Mr. Catalde, the California builder, said: ''People are still buying, but what's happening is that a family that wanted a four-bedroom house are buying a three-bedroom house. Maybe they don't get the house they want, but they're getting a house.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An Iraqi carries a piece of plywood at a temporary camp for the United States military near Tikrit. The military placed a large order for plywood last year. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 A warehouse in Maniwaki, Quebec, filled with oriented-strand board. The product has rapidly displaced plywood as a construction material because it is cheaper to make and is more uniform in quality. (pg. C2)Chart: ''Through the Roof''A booming building industry and the military's needs in Iraq have helped push up the price of lumber.Graph tracks North-central U.S. spot price for 7/16-inch oriented-strand board from April 2003 through April 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (94%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); ENGINEERED WOOD PRODUCT MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (79%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (79%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); METALS MARKETS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (66%) OHIO, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (66%); QUEBEC, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



228 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Seal Hunt

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Thank you for highlighting the graphic details of what has become the world's largest hunt for marine mammals, the Canadian seal hunt (front page, April 5).
 Despite sealing industry claims in the article, this hunt doesn't make any sense, economic or otherwise.
 The industry has been subsidized in recent years by millions of Canadian taxpayer dollars, while sealers still often earn less than $1,000 a season for their backbreaking and dangerous work. 
 The fact is, the landed value of last year's seal hunt accounted for less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the economy of Newfoundland, nowhere near the figures claimed by Canada's sealing industry.
 Lasting solutions to the economic challenges facing Atlantic Canada require more than subsidizing the slaughter of nearly one million seals over the next three years.

FREDERICK M. O'REGAN
President, International Fund
for Animal Welfare
Hyannis, Mass., April 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WILDLIFE (88%); MAMMALS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (72%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



229 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Republican Group To Pay Fine

BYLINE: By John Files (NYT)

 BODY:
The National Republican Congressional Committee has agreed to pay a $280,000 fine for illegally funneling soft money to other groups to pay for issue advertisements during the 2000 elections, the Federal Election Commission said. The Congressional committee gave $500,000 in soft money to the U.S. Family Network, which passed $300,000 to another group, Americans for Economic Growth, to pay for radio advertisements asserting that Democrats would seek to spend portions of the Social Security surplus on foreign aid and big government programs. The election commission said the Congressional committee was required to pay for the advertisements with hard money -- the limited, regulated kind that donors can give only to national parties -- and that it knew the money would be spent on advertisements. The inquiry was prompted by a complaint from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 John Files (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (91%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (90%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



230 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Soar, Angelenos Shrug

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 9 

 BODY:
It's going to take a lot more than $2.39-a-gallon gasoline prices to get Angelenos out of their cars.
 ''To be honest, I don't even pay attention to what the price is,'' Timothy Jameson said as he pumped $20 worth into his Mitsubishi Spyder at a Shell station in the Sherman Oaks section. 
 Mr. Jameson, a voice coach, said he would support more taxes to expand Los Angeles's runty subway system or to create more efficient street-level public transit. But until that far-off day, he said, he needs his car to take him where he needs to go, the price of gas be damned. 
 The average price of regular gas in California has shot up 50 cents a gallon since the first of the year, to $2.12, nearly 40 cents higher than the national average. In many places in Southern California, the price is higher still.
 But Angelenos have not responded by parking their cars and hopping onto public transit. In fact, ridership on the Metropolitan Transit Authority's bus and fledgling subway lines is down from a year ago. M.T.A. officials attribute the drop to the lingering effects of a 35-day transit strike last fall. Many riders, the officials say, found alternative ways to work and have not returned.
 Nor does it appear that Southern Californians have significantly altered their car-buying habits. This is a state, after all, where the governor drives and promotes the gas-devouring Hummer. 
 Jake Harper, who sells Hummers at the Casa Automotive Group in Sherman Oaks, said customers there were still buying 60 to 80 of the 6,400-pound military-style vehicles a month. Sales are down from a peak of 100 a month a year ago, but Casa Automotive continues to sell more Hummers than any other dealership in the United States.
 ''Gas mileage?'' Mr. Harper said. ''It's never been a factor. A few people bring it up, but it hasn't affected their behavior.''
 He said the $52,000 Hummer H2 got 12 miles a gallon on the highway and perhaps 10 in the city.
 ''If they ask,'' he said of prospective customers, ''we give them the answer: it's lousy. That's why it's not on the window sticker. I can't recall anyone who didn't buy because of the mileage.''
 Mr. Harper, who has sold cars for more than 30 years, said the effect of the current gasoline price spike was nothing like what he saw in the late 1970's and early 1980's.
 ''Back then,'' he said, ''people just stopped buying big cars. Zero. People did change their buying habits. But there's no indication of that today. People are talking about gas prices, but they're not doing anything about it.''
 In fact, while California gas prices are at historic highs in nominal terms, average prices after inflation are below those of 1979 to 1982. In 1981, the average price for the year was $2.42 in today's dollars, almost 15 percent higher than the current statewide average.
 Elizabeth Deakin, director of the University of California Transportation Center, said gas prices would have to rise significantly higher to affect drivers' behavior appreciably. A 50-cent-a-gallon increase, Dr. Deakin noted, adds only a few pennies a mile, or less than a quarter a day for most drivers.
 ''I wouldn't expect that quarter to be something that people will react strongly to,'' she said. ''Those who would feel it are already on the bus or walking.''
 Yet there are some faint stirrings of concern among Los Angeles commuters. The city transit authority has seen a marked increase in the number of visits to its ride-sharing Web site, to 6,431 in March from 2,335 in January, said David Sutton, executive manager of the authority's Metro Commute Services. Mr. Sutton was unable to say how many of those hits had resulted in car-pooling, or whether they had been inspired by rising gas prices or the frustrations of dealing with Los Angeles's freeways, congenitally congested. (Ride-sharers get to use more than 1,000 miles of car-pool lanes on California freeways.)
 In addition, Toyota dealers report waiting lists of two to three months for the company's popular Prius gas-electric hybrid model, which gets more than 40 miles a gallon. Honda, Ford and Toyota are expanding their lines of hybrid vehicles, though California is still a long way from the fuel-efficient ''hydrogen highway'' that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger envisions.
 At the Shell station in Sherman Oaks, Tracii Guns, guitarist for the heavy-metal band Brides of Destruction, was filling up his 1999 Corvette -- $35 for 14.5 gallons. ''Ouch,'' he said. ''I've been flirting with the idea of getting a Vespa scooter, or maybe a Mini.''
 Sam Botnick, director of operations for Vespa of California, which runs four Southern California scooter dealerships, said it sold more scooters in March than in any other month in the last two and a half years. He attributed the increase in part to the rise in gas prices, although he said there were probably other factors as well.
 The Vespa has its origins in postwar Italy, where gas was extremely scarce. It gets about 70 miles a gallon and costs $3,000 to $6,000, depending on the model.
 Mr. Botnick said his company's four outlets sold 65 scooters in March. That's almost as many as the Hummers that Casa Automotive sells in a typical month.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The average price of regular gasoline in California is up 50 cents a gallon since the first of the year. Has it made a difference? Not much, says Jake Harper, who sells gas-devouring Hummers. ''I can't recall anyone who didn't buy because of the mileage,'' he said. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); SALES FIGURES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



231 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 672 words

PERSON: Jeremiah Gumbs

HEADLINE: Jeremiah Gumbs, 91; Led Anguilla Protest

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Jeremiah Gumbs, a hotel keeper who became a hero in Anguilla when that sliver of sand upended Britain's postcolonial design for the Caribbean islands known as the Lesser Antilles, died there on Thursday, his family announced. He was 91.
 Mr. Gumbs, an institution on an island that today has a population of about 12,000 people, reached a world audience in 1967 when he went before the United Nations with the islanders' objections to a British plan that lumped Anguilla's 35 square miles into a self-governing state, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, associated with Britain. 
 Considering the 70 miles of blue waters between Anguilla, the northernmost of the Leeward Islands, and the new authorities in St. Kitts, not to mention the many different flags that flew on the islands in between, like St. Martin and St. Barthelemy, the Anguillans balked. 
 ''After 300 years of neglect as a British colony,'' Mr. Gumbs told the United Nations, ''the people feel they are able to take care of their own affairs.'' Indeed, he said, Anguillans wanted independence.
 The people of Anguilla voted for it, 1,813 to 5, but Britain did not recognize either the referendum or Mr. Gumbs as a leader of the secessionist movement. But a special United Nations subcommittee on colonialism listened to his formal arguments for Anguilla. 
 It was a ''natural paradise,'' Mr. Gumbs said of the island, but had been left undeveloped under British rule, without running water, electricity, phones or a decent road. (A new highway, built with European aid, has recently been named for Mr. Gumbs.)
 The British protested United Nations involvement, while other Caribbean commonwealth islands sought to mediate. 
 Britain asserted that the island was ''completely dominated by a gangster-type element,'' referring to Mr. Gumbs and the chosen leader of the rebellion, James Ronald Webster. It sent a troop of London's Metropolitan Police force to keep order and stop the secession movement. 
 But efforts to patch the link to St. Kitts failed. In the end, Anguilla got part of what it wanted, becoming a self-governing British dependent territory with its own elected officials, an arrangement codified in 1971 and brought up to date with Anguilla's new Constitution in 1982.
 Jeremiah Gumbs was born in Anguilla, the youngest of nine children; his mother was a baker and his father a fisherman. He started school in Anguilla, but economic hardship drove him as a boy to work the cane fields in the Dominican Republic. Starting at age 15, he worked for two years in oil refineries in Aruba and Curacao before returning to Anguilla to teach himself tailoring.
 At 25, he went to live with a sister in Brooklyn and took night classes at City College on a scholarship. He hoped to become a dentist, but was drafted into the Army in 1941 and was given American citizenship at the time.
 After the war, he married Lydia Gibbs of Perth Amboy, N.J., and, using his G.I. Bill money, trained as a furnace installer. He started his own company in Perth Amboy, Gumbs Fuelers, and made a success of it.
 When he took Lydia to show her Anguilla, it was she who planted the idea for another venture -- tourism on the island's untouched beaches. They bought 14 acres, later doubling the amount, and in 1959 started building Anguilla's first beach resort with their own hands.
 They rented the first rooms in 1962, opening what has become the Rendezvous Bay Hotel and Villas, a cornerstone of the island's growing tourism industry. 
 As a businessman with local roots and a civic leader acquainted with the ways of the world, Jeremiah Gumbs became a natural choice to serve as the island's roving ambassador during the Anguillan revolution of 1967-69.
 He managed the hotel until about five years ago and remained a jovial host after that.
 Lydia Gumbs died about three years ago. Jeremiah Gumbs is survived by three sons, J. Alan, the managing director and owner of the Rendezvous Bay, Clyde, of Atlanta, and Duane, of Edison, N.J.; a daughter, Una, of Edison and Anguilla; and seven grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeremiah Gumbs in 1969. (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); REFERENDUMS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ANGUILLA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); SAINT MARTIN (79%); ARUBA (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



232 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: VOICES

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Unclear About Answers, but Clearly Weary of War

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 9 

 BODY:
The Happy Time restaurant sounds like an improbable place for Iraqis to discuss the turmoil and strife of a growing guerrilla war against American-led troops occupying their country.
 But one year after the fall of Saddam Hussein, Aseel Suheil and her friends sat in gathering darkness in the restaurant's courtyard and expressed disappointment in life in Iraq, fearing the prospect of more conflict as Shiite and Sunni militias battle foreign forces.
 ''The only reason we come to this restaurant is because it's close to where we live,'' Ms. Suheil said. ''We are afraid of going out these days because of car bombs, and every young man seems to carry a gun now.'' 
 The Mahdi Army -- the militia of the anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr -- is said by American officials to stand at 4,000 to 6,000 members. And while many Iraqis say they support the idea of ridding their country of the military occupation now, they are not all Sadr followers.
 Many say they do not see a clear solution.
 ''I'm a Shiite, but I do not want the Mahdi Army,'' said Ms. Suheil's friend, a Shiite Muslim named Nahla Abdel Wahid, as they sat in the Happy Time. ''They are too extreme and backward.''
 ''They would never let us go out in the streets, or sit here with our hair down,'' Ms. Suheil added. Some Shiite followers of Mr. Sadr want an Islamic government guided by senior clerics. ''But the American forces should get out,'' she said. ''They just attract gunfire now. They should leave it to us.''
 The Mahdi Army and Sunnis fighting in Falluja and Ramadi are loosely allied by a common purpose, which they say is to rid the country of foreign forces. Shiite and Sunni Muslims form the majority of Iraq's population.
 Few people say they have much trust in the American-backed Iraqi Governing Council, complaining that it is not elected. They are also mistrustful of the interim constitution and of the promise that their lives will be improved when the United States returns sovereignty to the Iraqis in a largely ceremonial transfer in June. 
 But there is little appetite for more fighting in a country that has been embroiled in the Iran-Iraq war, the 1991 war in Kuwait, and then the American-led war last year. In that sense, Iraqis feel pushed into more instability.
 ''More people will just pour into the streets if they try to arrest Sadr,'' said Abed Jumaa, a 38-year-old war veteran, as he sat in a cafe in the Zayona neighborhood here, bustling with shoppers and diners. ''But we are tired of conflict.''
 His friend, Sabah Anwar, has a deep scar across his head, which he said was a wound from the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980's. He said the guerrillas fighting the United States had served as a sort of rallying point for Iraqis, giving them common ground. ''We have decided we should all say we are behind Sadr,'' he said. ''We thank the United States only on one point -- for getting rid of Saddam Hussein. After that we have been left on our own with nothing tangible.''
 On the Dura highway traveling south of Baghdad to the Shiite city of Karbala, columns of American tanks and Humvees shared the lanes with Iraqis in civilian cars on a pilgrimage. Soldiers sat in jump seats above the vehicles, their heavy machine guns spiked skyward or fixed pointedly at the civilian traffic, apparently as a precaution against drive-by attacks.
 The column's presence was a reminder of the religious aspect of the quandary American forces face in the cities of Karbala and Najaf. At a time when the Mahdi Army is growing bolder, the military has had to adopt a hands-off approach to the two cities out of respect for the Shiite religious pilgrimage, which draws millions this weekend.
 ''The Americans have no right to interfere with our freedom of movement,'' said a cleric, Sheik Niseem al-Abadi, sitting in a tent on the roadside where charities gave away food and water to pilgrims en route to Karbala. ''There had better not be checkpoints or attempts to impede the pilgrims.'' Like many of Iraq's clerics, he suggested that what Iraq needed was a government that reflected Islamic principles.
 An economics teacher, Talal Abdel-Hadi, said he was opposed to the occupation but was not convinced that the Mahdi Army represented the interests of Iraq's 24 million people. He and his friends, sitting with him in his garden near the square where Saddam Hussein's statue was toppled last year, said that what Iraq needs now are elections, rather than a militia force, to define the way the country is led.
 ''We are an educated people, and many of his followers are not cultured,'' he said. ''Anyone who is elected by the people and can truly serve us is what we need now.''
 ''As for the Americans, they have technology, and we have ideas,'' Mr. Abdel-Hadi said. ''Maybe one day we can cooperate away from the language of violence.''
 Some Iraqis suggest that the United Nations should take a more active role, and even send peacekeepers for stability, rather than an occupying military force.
 Such was the view of Kathim Abdel Wahid, 50, a former cobbler, who stood over his daughter in the hospital in the Baghdad neighborhood of Sadr City, where American forces in tanks battled Mahdi Army fighters this week after they tried to seize control of Iraqi police stations.
 He held up an X-ray showing a bullet lodged in the girl's cheek.
 ''What is this all about that innocent people are getting shot at in the streets?'' he asked. ''What kind of society do we have?'' The time has come for American forces to yield to a neutral force, like one attached to the United Nations.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheik Niseem al-Abadi, center, having tea with pilgrims. ''The Americans have no right to interfere with our freedom of movement,'' he said. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin/Reflex News, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); RELIGION (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



233 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Brazil: Sale Of Airline Stake

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Brazilian airline TAM plans to sell a 20 percent stake in Brazil and the United States within a year in a bid to raise as much as $150 million to increase working capital, the chief executive, Marco Bologna, said. The carrier will sell new preferred shares, expecting to attract investors as Brazil's economy recovers. Domestic air travel is expected to grow 7 percent this year, according to Mr. Bologna's estimate. TAM, which accounts for a third of the country's domestic air travel, plans to sell the shares from September and March next year, Mr. Bologna said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVESTITURES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (86%); WORKING CAPITAL (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); PREFERRED STOCK (84%); EXECUTIVES (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TAM SA (90%)

TICKER: TAM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



234 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Built With Steel, Perhaps, but Greased With Pork

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: KETCHIKAN, Alaska, April 8 

 BODY:
Even by the standards of Alaska, the land where schemes and dreams come for new life, two bridges approved under the national highway bill passed by the House last week are monuments to the imagination.
 One, here in Ketchikan, would be among the biggest in the United States: a mile long, with a top clearance of 200 feet from the water -- 80 feet higher than the Brooklyn Bridge and just 20 feet short of the Golden Gate Bridge. It would connect this economically depressed, rain-soaked town of 7,845 people to an island that has about 50 residents and the area's airport, which offers six flights a day (a few more in summer). It could cost about $200 million.
 The other bridge would span an inlet for nearly two miles to tie Anchorage to a port that has a single regular tenant and almost no homes or businesses. It would cost up to $2 billion. 
 These ''bridges to nowhere,'' as critics have dubbed the two costliest of the high-priority projects in the six-year, $275 billion House bill, are one reason Republicans are fighting among themselves in shaping the nation's transportation spending.
 President Bush has threatened to use his first veto against any measure that emerges from a House-Senate conference with a cost of more than $256 billion. (The Senate version, passed in February, calls for $318 billion and includes neither of the projects, though their champion on Capitol Hill voices certainty that they will be added in conference.) Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, has described the legislation as so laden with pork as to betray the party's principles.
 But if this is pork, the Republican behind the House bill says bring it on, with extra fat. Representative Don Young, Alaska's lone member of the House, where he is chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is already known as Mr. Concrete but would like to wear another title as well.
 ''I'd like to be a little oinker, myself,'' Mr. Young told a Republican lunch crowd here, taking mock offense at the suggestion that Ted Stevens, the Alaska Republican who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, directs more pork to their state than he does. ''If he's the chief porker, I'm upset.''
 When asked why a town with one main road, a dwindling population and virtually nowhere to drive to needs a bridge to rival the world's great spans, people here inevitably respond with two words: Don Young. Mr. Young, mindful that the highway bill comes up for renewal only once every six years or so, and that the House Republican Conference imposes three-term limits on committee chairmanships, says the opportunity to pour so many federal dollars into his home state comes once in a lifetime, and should be seized.
 ''If you don't do it now, when are you going to do it?'' he said at the luncheon. ''This is the time to take advantage of the position I'm in, along with Senator Stevens.''
 He said he would support an increase in the federal tax on gasoline -- a ''user fee,'' he called it -- to pay for even more projects than were included in the newly passed bill.
 People here in Ketchikan, in far southeastern Alaska off the coast of British Columbia, are grateful for Mr. Young's efforts, and they can certainly use the 600 or so jobs that a vast government works project would bring. A veneer mill, supported by $17 million in federal aid, lies empty and rusting, in search of an owner. The town's biggest job provider, a pulp mill, shut down in 1997.
 But as a transportation solution, the Ketchikan bridge is seen as something of a joke. It would replace a five-minute ferry crossing.
 ''Everyone knows it's just a boondoggle that we're getting because we have a powerful congressman,'' said Mike Sallee, 57, whose mother homesteaded here and who now runs a small timber operation. ''That ferry of ours has been pretty darn reliable.''
 In public hearings on the bridge plan, officials heard few complaints about the ferry service. The ferry crosses every half-hour in winter and every 15 minutes in summer, when there are two boats available and a third on call. The crossing one day this week, from the time a visitor picked up his bags at the airport to his reaching town, took less than 10 minutes -- and that included a wait for the ferry to arrive and dock at the island. 
 The Gravina Island Access Bridge, as the project is called, has been given a Golden Fleece award by Taxpayers for Common Sense, a budget watchdog based in Washington.
 ''It's a gold-plated bridge to nowhere,'' said Keith Ashdown, a spokesman for the group. ''At a time when we have bridges and roads crumbling around the United States, and traffic congestion worse than ever, why build a $200 million project that will serve only a few hundred people?''
 Mr. Young, whose bill has broad bipartisan support, speaks with passion of how traffic congestion has robbed the average American of 68 hours a year in lost time. But he says taking care of Alaska is just as important.
 ''If I had not done fairly well for our state,'' he said, ''I'd be ashamed of myself.''
 As for the merits of the Ketchikan proposal, he said, ''It's a bridge to somewhere.'' That somewhere is an island with a few miles of dirt roads, an unlogged sliver of the nation's biggest national forest. Mr. Young hopes the bridge will spur development in a part of Alaska where, though rain is measured by the foot (an average of more than 13 feet a year), cruise ships bring nearly a million tourists annually.
 The nation's highway statute gets its money from a trust fund financed by the 18.4-cent-a-gallon federal tax that Americans pay on gasoline. Every time the legislation is renewed, lawmakers load it with special projects for their districts, called earmarks. Alaskans get nearly $7 back for every dollar they put into the fund.
 In all, the current House bill would give Alaska $540 million in earmarks, including down payments of $120 million for the Ketchikan bridge and $200 million for the one at Anchorage. Those two costs alone are more than the total for earmarked projects in all of 41 other states, according to an analysis by Taxpayers for Common Sense.
 Mr. Young said Alaska had been late to the federal table -- it did not join the Union until 1959 -- and needed to play catch-up. With his position as chairman of the House transportation committee, and with Mr. Stevens driving appropriations in the Senate, the state can muscle through most of the road projects it dreams up, he said.
 ''It's not a good way to legislate, although I got a lot of stuff in it,'' Mr. Young told The Anchorage Daily News in December. ''I mean I stuffed it like a turkey.''
 The bridge in Anchorage would cross Knik Arm, which is clogged by ice blocks the size of cars for much of the year, and connect the city to an undeveloped area around Port MacKenzie. In their proposal, state officials said it was needed for domestic security and to ''coordinate operations'' between the Port of Anchorage and the MacKenzie port, which has only one permanent tenant. Promoters of the bridge now say it is needed to stimulate housing and commercial development as well.
 Here in Ketchikan, a simple bridge to the north of the one now envisioned would have spanned a gap of only a quarter-mile between the airport and town, and at only a fraction of the cost. But it was judged too close to the airport for pilot safety. 
 Another idea was a bridge with a clearance of 120 feet rather than the 200 now planned. But that would have forced cruise ships, the only growth industry in town, to take a different approach to port. After cruise lines threatened to cut some dockings, the most expensive design offered became the plan of choice.
 It calls for a span that will be longer than the George Washington Bridge, over the Hudson River, and will connect to Gravina Island through a middle island. Builders will be cutting into the flank of a mountain to anchor it.
 Yet the bridge may make for a longer trip to the airport, people here say. Anyone driving from Ketchikan to catch a plane will have to head south of town, move past a main drag frequently clogged with tourists, ascend a mountain, cross the mile-long bridge westbound, then circle north around the back of Gravina Island to reach the airport. In addition, the airport will have to build a parking structure, at an estimated cost of $11 million.
 ''The funny thing, when that big bridge is done, it will take more time to get to the airport than it does now on our little ferry,'' said Dale Collins, a mariner who heads the ship pilots association here. ''But it sure will be big. It's unbelievable, the size of that bridge.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tiny Ketchikan, in foreground, would be linked by a bridge to a mountainous island a mile away. (Photo by Associated Press for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of Alaska highlighting Anchorage and Ketchikan -- Anchorage and Ketchikan: beneficiaries of a lawmaker's power. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); VETO (71%); TERM LIMITS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DON YOUNG (79%); TED STEVENS (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (93%) ALASKA, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



235 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: As Bush Ends Money Drive, Kerry Goes On

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 9 

 BODY:
President Bush held his last planned fund-raising event for his re-election campaign on Monday, having collected almost twice as much money as he did in 2000.
 By contrast, Senator John Kerry pushed ahead with what will be one of the busiest fund-raising months of his campaign. He is still personally calling donors and attending major events in a dozen cities this month as he seeks to compete with the president's expansive financial network.
 Mr. Bush's aides said they saw no need to continue major events because they had met their long-held goal, and had always planned to turn their attention to campaigning at this point in the race. Mr. Bush raised more than $180 million through March, exceeding his goal by $10 million. Mr. Kerry, who has raised $79 million, is taking advantage of an outpouring of Democratic support after emerging as his party's presumptive nominee. 
 The differences in their fund-raising underscore the sharply different missions of the Bush and Kerry campaigns. While the Bush operation can afford to run television commercials that try to define Mr. Kerry and is sending the president to campaign events, his opponent is busy taking in cash.
 On Thursday, for example, Mr. Kerry raised more than $1 million in Chicago, then picked up $500,000 for the Democratic National Committee over breakfast on Friday. Next week, he will make six stops, including a big-money fund-raiser in New York on Wednesday. The gala for roughly 2,200 people at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers could raise enough to rival the $4 million Mr. Bush collected in the city last summer, Kerry fund-raisers said.
 Afterward, Mr. Kerry, who is from Massachusetts, will appear at a low-dollar event at the Crobar nightclub, where young supporters will mingle with celebrities like Tom DeLonge, the singer-guitarist for the band Blink-182.
 Mr. Bush has held 55 fund-raisers in 32 states, but he has been able to wrap up such events (though he will continue to raise some money through the Internet and direct mail) because he has a sophisticated financial network, something Mr. Kerry is still developing. Because of those deep financial resources, and no primary competition, the president had $110 million on hand at the start of March. Mr. Kerry had $2.4 million on hand after an expensive and competitive primary season.
 The contrasts in the networks offer a window into the industries and individuals that Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have relied on for financial support over their careers.
 Both networks started as homegrown operations, with Mr. Bush turning to his Texas roots in 2000, just as Mr. Kerry relied on members of his brother's law firm and other Massachusetts companies earlier in the 2004 race. But campaign finance experts say that the need to gather increasing millions has forced both camps to vastly expand their networks as they search for contributions, which are now limited to $2,000 per person under the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law.
 ''You just keep building your base, there's no other way to do it,'' said Louis Susman, Mr. Kerry's national finance chairman. ''It's got to continue to grow.''
 One result is that both candidates are seeing vast changes to their roster of financial supporters. The ante has been raised further: the expansion comes at a time when both candidates have been free to raise and spend without limits in the primary because neither accepted public financing and the spending caps that come with it.
 The changes and growth are most obvious for Mr. Bush, who has expanded his list of top donors beyond the Texas firms and industries that he started with four years ago. Now the worlds of accounting, investment, insurance and financial services dominate his list of top donors.
 That change is embodied in PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting giant that emerged in March reports as the top source of money for Mr. Bush's career after employees gave more than $607,000. It narrowly edged out longtime supporters like the MBNA Corporation and Enron, where employees had also given hundreds of thousands, according to the Center for Public Integrity, which tracks top donors.
 Several company executives at the accounting firm signed on to raise money, feeding campaign fund-raisers from Dallas to Washington. For example, former Representative Bill Archer of Texas, once the chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee and now an employee in the firm's Washington office, has helped. In November, he opened his Virginia home for a fund-raiser where guests paid to $2,000 to hear Andrew H. Card Jr., the president's chief of staff. 
 ''It's like any group of businesspeople,'' said one Washington employee at the firm. ''They are looking around for the best things they can do for themselves and their business interests.''
 For now, Mr. Kerry's view of the financial landscape is more limited. The senator from Massachusetts still counts employees at the Boston law firm where his brother works -- Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo -- as his top source of money during his career, according to the center. However, contributions have poured in since he became the presumptive nominee, $38 million in March alone, and the money is likely to reshape a list of top career supporters still heavy with law firms and home-state companies.
 ''Once you become the nominee, the money comes in from everywhere,'' said Francis Bellotti, a former attorney general for Massachusetts and a lawyer at Mintz, Levin who has long supported Mr. Kerry. ''This is a national thing now.''
 That has been the case for Mr. Bush for some time. The groundwork for his national network, and his presidential run, was partly laid in 1998 when Mr. Bush's friend and confidante, James B. Francis Jr., hit upon an idea: Create a class of high-dollar fund-raiser who would receive special recognition from the campaign.
 At that moment, the Pioneers were born, a group of 241 people who each raised $100,000. Almost a third were from Texas, where many had supported Mr. Bush as governor.
 ''It was the same people that grew up with him,'' said Nancy Kinder, a longtime friend of Mr. Bush who has raised hundreds of thousands for his campaigns. But in this year's race, the operation is now selling an administration with a record on terrorism and taxes, instead of introducing a Republican governor with a famous last name.
 This time around, hundreds of new people have signed on as Pioneers and Rangers, a new class of $200,000 fund-raiser created for this campaign, bringing the number of six-figure fund-raisers to more than 450. More now come from Florida than from Texas.
 Of course, major fund-raising also brings major criticism. Since he arrived in the White House, Mr. Bush has been accused by Democrats of catering to the corporate interests that support him.
 Early on, the criticism focused on the oil and gas industry, where both Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney had worked. More recently, Democratic attacks have focused on economic policies like cuts to taxes on dividends and capital gains, as well as plans to introduce private investment into the Social Security system. Critics say such policies are a bald appeal to financial companies that benefit from such changes.
 Mr. Kerry, in turn, draws criticism from Republicans who say he is hypocritical in pledging not to accept money from political action committees and criticizing corporate lobbyists, noting that he has taken money from lobbyists and corporate interests just as any other candidate has. The Republican National Committee derides him as ''Cash and Kerry.''
 Mr. Kerry's organization, of course, hopes to see its network expand and change just as Mr. Bush's did. As of March, he had 182 major fund-raisers, but only a third had raised $100,000 or more, though the campaign is signing up new fund-raisers all the time.
 The Kerry network was created over four Senate races, and in that time Mr. Kerry developed a reputation as a prolific fund-raiser. In the late 1980's, he headed the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, which is responsible for electing Senate Democrats. 
 ''The whole network was not built overnight,'' said Peter Maroney, a fund-raiser who has worked for Mr. Kerry for seven years. ''It was developed and worked on and took a lot of time and energy and travel.''
 Mr. Kerry was often personally involved. Owen Byrd, a lawyer from California, found that out firsthand when he began raising money for him last year. Mr. Byrd was washing dishes in his Palo Alto home when his cell phone rang. ''Hey man,'' a voice said. ''It's John Kerry. How are you doing?''
 Mr. Byrd had agreed to hold a $30,000 fund-raiser, tiny by presidential standards, but apparently enough to warrant a call from Mr. Kerry, who gently prodded him to raise as much as possible. ''It worked,'' Mr. Byrd said. ''He didn't pound me or hound me, but he left me motivated.''
 The expansion of Mr. Kerry's network intensified when he decided to run for president. He and his top aides raised millions for his 2002 Senate re-election, despite the lack of a tough challenger. They also traveled the country recruiting new Democratic fund-raisers and sources of money.
 One new source was the employees at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. They were not major contributors to his Senate races but have moved up Mr. Kerry's list of top career donors based on their work in this race. The firm has no fewer than three partners who have each raised at least $100,000. 
 Another law firm, Piper Rudnick, has four Kerry fund-raisers in its ranks.
 These days, Mr. Kerry is raking in tens of millions over the Internet and completing a fund-raising tour that began in March. ''We have to be creative in keeping the momentum going,'' Mr. Maroney said. ''That's the key to successful fund-raising.''
 Mr. Kerry will eventually stop raising money because both nominees are expected to receive $75 million apiece in public money after the national conventions this summer to finance their general election drives.
 But for now, the advantage is still with Mr. Bush. Of Mr. Kerry's top 10 sources of money through February, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, half of them had given more to the president.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Top Career Donors''The top 10 all-time donors to George W. Bush and John Kerry. Donations are primarily from employees of each organization, but are also from the organization and its political action committees. Organizations that are among the candidates top 10 donors during the 2004 election are in gray.Top career donors to George W. BushORGANIZATION: PricewaterhouseCoopersINDUSTRY: AccountingDONATIONS: $607,498ORGANIZATION: MBNAINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 606,291ORGANIZATION: EnronINDUSTRY: EnergyDONATIONS: 602,875ORGANIZATION: Merrill LynchINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 597,504ORGANIZATION: UBS AGINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 508,750ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse First BostonINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 508,650ORGANIZATION: Vinson & ElkinsINDUSTRY: Law firmDONATIONS: 489,400ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs GroupINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 436,199ORGANIZATION: Ernst & Young LLPINDUSTRY: AccountingDONATIONS: 435,204ORGANIZATION: Bass Brothers EnterprisesINDUSTRY: Oil and gasDONATIONS: 397,427Top career donors to John KerryORGANIZATION: Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & PopeoINDUSTRY: Law firmDONATIONS: $243,346ORGANIZATION: FleetBoston FinancialINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 195,637ORGANIZATION: Time WarnerINDUSTRY: CommunicationsDONATIONS: 169,660ORGANIZATION: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & FlomINDUSTRY: Law firmDONATIONS: 153,875ORGANIZATION: Robins, Kaplan, Miller & CiresiINDUSTRY: Law firmDONATIONS: 145,200ORGANIZATION: Hale & DorrINDUSTRY: Law firmDONATIONS: 142,308ORGANIZATION: Harvard UniversityINDUSTRY: EducationDONATIONS: 140,600ORGANIZATION: Piper RudnickINDUSTRY: Law firmDONATIONS: 136,350ORGANIZATION: CitigroupINDUSTRY: FinancialDONATIONS: 129,656ORGANIZATION: Hill, HollidayINDUSTRY: AdvertisingDONATIONS: 122,550Organization totals include subsidiaries and affiliates.(Sources by Center for Public Integrity
 Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); LEE BASS (50%); ROBERT BASS (50%); SID BASS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



236 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Asian Stocks Fall on Fears of Violence in Iraq

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Asian stocks fell, led by Sony and Samsung Electronics, on concern that violence in Iraq and the threat of terrorist attacks would slow global economic expansion. 
 In Japan, the Nikkei 225 stock average slumped 1.6 percent, to 11,897.51, its biggest drop in six weeks. 
The Kospi index in South Korea lost 1.3 percent, to 905.44, its first slide in seven sessions. 
 Japan Airlines System led declines in Asian airline stocks on concern the threat of terrorism would dent travel demand. 
 Benchmarks in Taiwan and China declined while indexes in Malaysia and Thailand were little changed. 
 Stock markets in Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore and Sri Lanka were closed for Easter. 
 Sony lost 1.8 percent, to 4,400 yen. Samsung Electronics, South Korea's largest company by market value and its biggest exporter, fell 1.7 percent, to 595,000 won. 
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, the supplier of made-to-order computer chips that counts on the United States for three-quarters of its revenue, shed 1.6 percent, to 60 New Taiwan dollars. 
 The Topix air transport index in Japan slid 2.8 percent. Japan Airlines, Asia's largest carrier by sales, dropped 3.1 percent, to 344 yen. All Nippon Airways, the region's second biggest, slipped 2.5 percent, to 351 yen. Korean Air shed 2.4 percent, to 18,500 won. 
 The Shanghai composite index, which tracks the larger of China's two stock markets, lost 2.4 percent, to 1,727.35, on concern that the government might raise lending rates to cool accelerating economic growth. Industrial production rose 19.4 percent in March, the fastest pace in more than a year, the government said yesterday. 
 China United Telecommunications, the owner of a large cellular network, fell 1.5 percent, to 4.51 yuan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (84%); TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (57%); ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO LTD (55%)

TICKER: SMSN (LSE) (84%); 005930 (KSE) (84%); TSM (NYSE) (57%); TSFA (FRA) (57%); 2330 (TAIEX) (57%); ANA (LSE) (55%); 9202 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (71%) IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); INDIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



237 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SOVEREIGNTY

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Relies on U.N. to Solve Problems of Power Transfer

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL and WARREN HOGE; Douglas Jehl reported from Washington for this article and Warren Hoge from the United Nations.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 9 

 BODY:
The State Department on Friday dismissed as ''highly speculative'' the idea that increased fighting in Iraq might force a delay in a planned transfer of power to Iraqis by June 30.
 But in light of the anti-American insurrection, senior Bush administration officials said the United States was relying increasingly on the United Nations to put an international stamp on efforts to resolve differences among Iraqis on the makeup of an interim government.
 ''In view of the violence, I think the wisdom of that approach has been validated,'' a senior State Department official said of an effort that is counting heavily on a United Nations envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, to win agreement from Iraqis on a transfer plan.
 Despite the mounting difficulties in Iraq, President Bush and his top aides have insisted all week that they remain more committed than ever to the June 30 deadline, which the administration set last fall. Senior administration officials say the rebellion has only strengthened their conviction that to cede political power to Iraqis on schedule is the right thing to do. 
 ''We are focusing on confronting those distinct and, I would suggest, isolated elements that seek to derail the political process through the use of violence to advance their parochial interests,'' the State Department spokesman, Adam Ereli, said Friday. ''We're confronting that, and we want to return the process and give the process back to the Iraqi people, those Iraqi people who favor dialogue over force. And we think that we'll be successful there.''
 Mr. Brahimi will be ''the pivotal agent'' in trying to rescue the imperiled effort to forge a transitional government acceptable to Iraq's main political groups, a senior Bush administration official said this week. By contrast, the official described an American envoy, Robert Blackwill, a deputy national security adviser now coordinating Iraq policy for the administration, as ''a political matchmaker'' in the process.
 Mr. Brahimi has been in Baghdad since Sunday, on his second mission this year to assess the political situation and advise the Iraqis on how to proceed with the June 30 transition.
 He met with many groups this week despite the surge of violence, according to Stephane Dujarric, a United Nations spokesman. It is not known when he will end his mission and report back to headquarters.
 In an interview, Munir Akram, Pakistan's ambassador to the United Nations, said he believed that Mr. Brahimi was exploring three options -- turning over sovereignty on June 30 to the existing 25-member Iraqi Governing Council, giving power to an expanded council that would add members to become more broadly representative than the present one, or calling a meeting of tribal leaders like the loya jirga gathering in Kabul last year when Mr. Brahimi was the United Nations' envoy to Afghanistan.
 ''I think the third option is eroding because of the time factor, and the second option, the expanded council, is the most likely,'' he said.
 Mr. Akram said the Security Council was united in the belief that the June 30 date for transition of power ought to be met. ''Everyone's agreed on June 30 -- we have the sense that this is a good thing, as much for the Iraqis as for the U.S.,'' he said.
 In public remarks in recent days, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and other top officials have argued that the violence in Iraq was being fueled in part by the approaching deadline. They have portrayed the attacks by Shiite and Sunni radicals as intended to sidetrack a process intended to put power in the hands of more moderate Iraqis.
 While acknowledging that winning agreement on a schedule for a new transfer plan remains a challenging task, administration officials said this week that they saw it as an increasingly important goal.
 ''It is our sense that the key to stability in Iraqi is empowering Iraqis politically and economically, and the transfer of sovereignty is the symbol of that,'' a senior State Department official said. Administration officials said they were still holding out hope that Mr. Brahimi might forge a consensus on some plan within the next month.
 Mr. Brahimi's method, as described by both United Nations and American officials, is to push Iraqis toward consensus without seeming to impose his will on them. A poker-faced former foreign minister of Algeria, Mr. Brahimi, 70, is known for keeping any sign of his own preferences to himself and building trust among feuding Muslim factions.
 The United Nations is wary of appearing to be doing the work of the allied occupiers, and Mr. Brahimi guards his independence closely, particularly because it is well known that the White House urged Secretary General Kofi Annan to give him this assignment.
 Iraq dominated conversation at a lunch at the State Department on Thursday between Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Senators Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, and Joseph R. Biden, Democrat of Delaware, who have suggested in recent days that it might now be a mistake to proceed with the transfer as scheduled, officials said. The senators are the chairman and senior Democrat of the Foreign Relations Committee.
 ''If there's an expectation that Brahimi is a miracle worker, that's a huge expectation,'' a spokesman for Mr. Lugar, Andy Fisher, said after the meeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



238 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Says Policy in Iraq Compromises U.S. Safety

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 9 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry said Friday that the Bush administration's approach to Iraq was ''gridlocked by its own ideology and its own arrogance'' and asserted that he had more experience than President Bush in handling national security.
 Asked by a television reporter here how he would respond to voters who worried about changing commanders in chief during the war on terror, Mr. Kerry, a decorated Vietnam veteran, cited his two decades of experience on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 ''I'm not untested in that kind of leadership role,'' Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said. ''I think you measure leadership by the lifetime of experience. And I bring more experience in military affairs, foreign policy and national affairs than George Bush even has today, more experience.'' 
 He said, ''George Bush, in my judgment, has run a foreign policy that has made us less safe than we ought to be in the aftermath of 9/11.''
 Mr. Kerry made the comment as he talked about the economy here and met with the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee for a Senate seat here, to help devise his strategy to inspire African-Americans to go to the polls in the fall.
 But as has occurred most of this week, Mr. Kerry was asked repeatedly about the deteriorating situation in Iraq while he was trying to focus on the economy.
 ''This administration has been gridlocked by its own ideology and its own arrogance,'' Mr. Kerry said at a fund-raising breakfast Friday morning with two dozen donors, who gave him $100,000. ''We can succeed but, boy, it's a lot tougher than it has to be.''
 Don Imus, the television and radio personality, also interviewed the senator on Friday and asked several questions about Iraq.
 Mr. Kerry said the United States should show ''a little bit of humility'' and go to the United Nations and build a coalition of allies to take over the policing and reconstruction of Iraq.
 The Bush campaign attacked Mr. Kerry for criticizing the president on the war and said he offered no real plan of his own.
 ''Instead of showing the world and the enemies of freedom that America stands firmly behind the effort in Iraq, and is committed to victory,'' said Nicolle Devenish, a Bush campaign spokeswoman, in a statement. ''John Kerry has made the political calculation to rail against the war on terror at every stop on the campaign trail without offering any credible alternative.'' 
 Later, Mr. Jackson said he told Mr. Kerry in a private meeting Friday that he should try to move the public debate off the topics that the White House wants to talk about -- ''taxes and terror,'' as he put it -- and broaden the discussion to matters like education, health care, poverty and voting rights.
 Mr. Jackson met with Mr. Kerry for half an hour after Mr. Kerry held an economic forum at a job training center in West Chicago. Mr. Jackson said in a telephone interview after the meeting that he and Mr. Kerry shared the belief that black voters needed to be convinced to ''vote their hopes, not their despair,'' and that white voters needed to ''vote their economic needs, not their fears.''
 Mr. Jackson said he supported Mr. Kerry and had talked to him throughout the campaign, but added, ''I've not chosen to have some grand endorsement plan.'' Similarly, he said, his son, Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., who backed Howard Dean during the primaries, also supported Mr. Kerry now but would probably not make a formal endorsement.
 Mr. Obama, who if elected would become the only black member of the Senate, said blacks were ''extraordinarily motivated right now'' because ''they are still mad about Florida,'' referring to the 2000 presidential election, when many minority voters said they were disenfranchised. ''But my task is to galvanize that vote,'' he told reporters.
 Mr. Obama, a state senator from Chicago, leads his Republican rival, Jack Ryan, by 19 percentage points in the most recent poll. While Mr. Obama demurred when asked if Mr. Kerry could ride his coattails in Illinois in November, Mr. Kerry told donors at a $1 million fund-raising dinner here Thursday night that he intended to do just that.
 Mr. Obama said that Democrats wanted to nail down Illinois early for Mr. Kerry so he could devote his attention to other swing states.
 ''We're hopeful that we can take Illinois out of play sometime during the summer,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If we do our job over the next three months, we'd like John Kerry to come back here primarily to raise money and say hello and say thank you.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry, speaking yesterday at a job training center in West Chicago, cited a need for employment opportunities in low-income areas. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); FUNDRAISING (64%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JESSE JACKSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004



239 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33; Bensonhurst Journal

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: The Time Has Come to Ride and Beep and Laugh Again

BYLINE: By ERIN ST. JOHN KELLY

 BODY:
To those who whiz by it on the Belt Parkway, Nellie Bly Amusement Park in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, looks like a mom-and-pop operation. But it isn't. It's only a mom operation. Gena Romano, 48, the single mother of Andrew, 5, owns and operates the park with help from her mother, Antoinette, 76. 
 What does spring mean to Gena Romano? ''My one word? Stress.'' What do Easter and Passover mean? Not as unusual: candy, family, prayer for nice weather. The difference for Ms. Romano is that this is her big opening weekend. Showtime at Nellie Bly. 
 ''Every year we turn on the water and there are always surprises, like with a country house,'' she said while walking around the park on a recent cold, gray March day. ''The big push now is to hire, train and inspect. After that we work on the details.'' Ms. Romano, who has a master's degree in fine arts, will touch up her painting on the house of horror at a quieter time.
 Sandbags are stuffed into the Frog Hopper ride's big midcroak mouths in a maximum load test. At the Dumbo ride, the pink and yellow elephants are on the asphalt waiting for electrical work, while the blue, orange and red ones that have passed inspection are already hung, the cold wind blowing into their giant ears. A handful of workers are replacing fluorescent bulbs at the kart track; others are releasing the Cool Climb rock from its blue tarpaulin winterizing cocoon.
 Nellie Bly Amusement Park is one of 420 in the country, 40 in New York State and 6 in the city, according to the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions' membership rolls. ''Smaller, noncorporate parks are alive and well,'' said Beth Robertson, the association's vice president for communications, ''but truly family-owned parks handed down through generations are much less common than even 20 years ago.'' 
 Ms. Romano's father, Eugene, and two uncles, Alfred and Henry, founded the park in 1963 in the parking lot of a driving range that occupied the site. (They named the park on a whim after a pioneering journalist of the late 19th century.) The Romanos lease the park's three acres, on the bay side of the Belt Parkway, from the city.
 The amusement industry took in $10.3 billion in 2003, Ms. Robertson said, but ''it has to look at new populations and really had to be creative and clever to have people return.'' Ms. Romano sees that as her imperative, too.
 Like all amusement parks, Nellie Bly must compete with growing entertainment options. Places like the Brooklyn Museum of Art, the Liberty Science Center in New Jersey and even the Brooklyn Botanic Garden vie for the same families. The park has traditionally had friendly competition with its neighbors at Coney Island -- Astroland and Dino's Wonder Wheel.
 ''You could never start a business like this again; it could really only be a corporation,'' said Ms. Romano, who noted that she took out a loan each winter to run the place, then repaid it. ''It's become a very costly thing to run.''
 Technically, Ms. Romano inherited the park when her father died in 2000, but she can barely remember not being in training for the position. ''I've done everything except for detailed mechanics on the rides,'' she said. ''I would say my best talent is cotton-candy-making.''
 In her father's day, she said, the park had an electrician on staff but now she pays for the work by the job, for about $30 per hour. She uses plumbers, carpenters and mechanics the same way. ''There's only so much we can charge by the ride,'' she said. ''We're not Disney World.'' This year rides will average $1.70 to $4. 
 Ms. Romano sees her job as finding ''the right mix'' of labor, equipment and rental costs while expanding what she offers families. She also tries to keep the park viable for the future, for her son, Andrew, to inherit. ''He wants to call it Andrew's World now.'' 
 She is excited by her newest contribution to that mix: the Whirl Wind, an $85,000 swing ride for 9- to 13-year-olds that she bought during the winter. ''It's not too crazy,'' she said. ''I don't want to turn them upside down and shake them.'' 
 Nellie Bly gets 150,000 visitors a year, Ms. Romano estimates. But that is only a guess, as she does not charge admission at the gate. She also estimates that she holds 800 birthday parties a year -- recently, even one for a man deep into his 50's. ''I see everybody I know once a year. Even if they've moved out, if they have children, they bring them here.''
 Winters are slow at Nellie Bly; the park goes into hibernation in October when it gets too cold for visitors to enjoy squirting water guns into gaping clown mouths for prizes or swirling on the Tilt-A-Whirl.
 From a summer season employment high of about 100, the park empties out to all but about 8 (depending on projects under way). 
 As spring approaches, Ms. Romano starts to wake the place up. Every year, she must play host to all kinds of inspectors. Spring means stocking the prizes, booking the birthday parties, lubing the karts, cleaning the batting cages and the miniature golf course, and hiring staff. ''This year a lot of adults applied for jobs, and I think it's reflective of the economy,'' she said. ''These are people with families.''
 The 22 rides, the fire system for concession stands, the arcade and the games all have to be licensed. The llama, four goats, one sheep, four rabbits and assorted fowl on her petting farm get a visit from a federal animal inspector. ''I'm an animal lover,'' she said, ''so he's the one I'm actually friendly with.''
 Ms. Romano smiles and laughs often while talking about her life's work. She tries to create an oasis of happiness. ''People sit in front of screens too much and don't talk to each other. I feel good about having a place where people interact a lot.''
 She added: ''I don't know if I'm with the times, but I like that it's a slowed-down place in the middle of the city.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Bensonhurst Journal article on Sunday, about opening weekend at the Nellie Bly Amusement Park in Brooklyn, gave an incorrect surname in some copies for the spokeswoman for an international amusement park association. She is Beth Robertson, not Roberston.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nellie Bly Amusement Park, a bayside fixture along the Belt Parkway in Brooklyn since 1963. It opens for the season this weekend.
Gena Romano, the daughter of a founder and now the park's owner.
 As spring approaches at Nellie Bly, the water-target clown heads, the children's airplane ride and the horse race await the crowds of a new season. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); PAINTING (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



240 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: A Refuge for City Children Faces Problems of Its Own

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
The children of St. Basil, it would seem, cannot catch a break. 
 In January, the New York State Office of Children and Family Services declared that St. Basil Academy in Garrison, N.Y., a home for troubled children, would not receive the operating license it had applied for. Last week, the home received more bad news: the State Education Department ruled that its 22 children would no longer be eligible for a free education in the Garrison public schools they have attended since last fall. 
 It is tempting to see the story of St. Basil, which is run by the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, as one of children repeatedly cast out into the cold.
 But the reality is more complicated. While officials of the home have accused the school district of being racist and elitist -- most of the children are minority pupils from urban areas -- school officials say the issue is not race but residency: the children are not official residents of Garrison, and thus are not entitled to free education. The tiny district also contends that it cannot afford to teach them without charge.
 The controversy began last spring. St. Basil, in Putnam County, serves children who have been temporarily removed from abusive or dysfunctional homes, most of them referred by social service agencies. It used to educate them on its own 260-acre campus, but in 1997, it started sending them to elementary, middle and high schools in the neighboring Highland Falls-Fort Montgomery Central School District.
 In May, the district's Board of Education wrote to the Rev. Constantine Sitaras, the executive director of St. Basil, saying that the home owed the district $237,000 in back tuition and warning that the children could not continue at Highland Falls unless the money was paid or an agreement to pay it was reached. 
 In an interview in November, Father Sitaras said St. Basil decided over the summer of 2003 to send its children to Garrison public schools instead of to Highland Falls. He said that the academy had been having trouble raising money because of the economic ripples of Sept 11, but that its financial situation had nothing to do with the decision to change school districts. The schools, he contended, have a legal obligation to educate the children without charge because they are residents of Garrison. 
 Garrison disagreed. It noted that the children were in Garrison only as a result of temporary court orders, not permanent transfers of custody, and that their parents lived elsewhere. Many of the children are from New York City, and some are from other states. 
 Just days before the school year started, though, Richard P. Mills, the state commissioner of education, issued a temporary ruling that held the Garrison schools responsible for educating the children. 
 Garrison residents and officials complained bitterly about the strain the commissioner's decision was having on the district. Costs to hire more staff members and to absorb students with troubled backgrounds and learning and psychological issues were almost $400,000, more than 5 percent of the district's annual budget, said Dr. Ellen Bergman, the superintendent of the Garrison schools. 
 St. Basil called the concerns misplaced, the product of racism and an unhealthy focus on test scores all too inherent in wealthy areas.
 Then, late last year, St. Basil was found to be caring for children without a state license. Father Sitaras said last November that the home was not aware that it needed to apply for a different license when it stopped educating children in 1997. After learning it needed one, it promptly applied to the State Office of Children and Family Services, and in January was rejected for several reasons, including the fact that, on its application, it had not admitted owing money to the Highland Falls school district.
 The state has offered St. Basil the chance to appeal and allowed it to continue operating in the meantime, finding no fault with its care. 
 Last week, though, the education commissioner reconsidered his temporary order regarding the status of St. Basil students as Garrison residents. Mr. Mills ruled that they were, for purposes of public education, not Garrison residents. He pointed to the lack of official transfer of custody to St. Basil and the fact that students can eventually go back to their parents' homes. St. Basil cannot be considered a child care institution, a status that might have weighed in its favor, because it has no license. The responsibility for paying for the children's education rests with either the students' home districts or with St. Basil, Mr. Mills wrote.
 The students can stay the remainder of the year, he added, but the district can seek reimbursement. 
 Michael Lambert, a lawyer for St. Basil, said on Friday that there had been no discussion of legal appeals of the Education Department's decision. St. Basil's posture is that it is generally pleased with the ruling, despite its loss on the contention that the students had status as residents. He said the commissioner's decision that the home districts of the in-state students had to cover the cost of their education was, ''from St. Basil's perspective, a good thing.''
 But Superintendent Bergman, who said that the ruling on the residency issue was gratifying, pointed with unease to the commissioner's determination that St. Basil children who come from out of state must be the financial obligation of St. Basil. 
 Considering St. Basil's payment history, a contract is needed, Dr. Bergman said, adding, ''The Board of Education would be somewhat skeptical as to whether they would pay.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: St. Basil Academy in Garrison, N.Y., houses 22 children, mostly referred by social service agencies. They have been going to local schools. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); CITIES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); RELIGION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



241 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1763 words

HEADLINE: New Mood Around the Budget

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
HERE is an obvious point: Gov. John G. Rowland has been weakened politically by investigations into gift-giving in his administration. Here is a less obvious one: Mr. Rowland's position may mean more poor people get health care, that schools in the state have more teachers, and that the rich pay for these programs. It could affect whether some mentally retarded people get help from the state and it could change the process of creating a budget itself.
 Democrats who had previously fought against Mr. Rowland in the budget process, and many times lost, expect to win concessions in this year's budget from a governor who has lost his political clout.
 Mr. Rowland, who has been busy rounding up thousands of documents requested by federal investigators and answering questions about ethics, may be forced to make deals he would not have accepted in the past. For some, it is a welcome change. 
 ''Some folks may have fallen off their high horses and realized they should be dealing down here on the ground with the rest of government and the rest of humanity,'' said Representative Andrew Fleischmann, a Democrat from West Hartford.
 Dean Pagani, the governor's chief of staff and spokesman, denied that the governor's position on budget matters had weakened. Because of the improving economy, the governor won't likely be under pressure to cut a deal this year, he said.
 ''Republicans in the House and Senate are still very much aligned with the governor on budget issues,'' Mr. Pagani said. ''The theory that Democrats are going to get something in the budget that they haven't gotten in the past is not very well thought out.''
 Some elected officials, along with advocates for social service agencies, said they were beginning to test the theory and had begun to prepare for life without this governor if the Senate convicts him. With that in mind, Health Care for All Coalition, a nonprofit agency that works to expand access to affordable health care, initiated the Jodi Rell Call-In Campaign last month, in which advocates called the lieutenant governor's office to persuade her to support changes in Medicaid funding.
 ''She's a high-ranking officer,'' said Gretchen Vivier, the director of the coalition, when asked why the group was focusing on Ms. Rell. Almost as an afterthought, she added, ''And there's also the possibility that she could be governor.''
 Representative James O'Rourke, a Democrat from Cromwell, said the impeachment investigation into the governor could end around the same time he is expected to sign the budget.
 ''It's a possibility the impeachment or resignation of the governor could happen right around the time that we would normally see the final budget be negotiated and come together,'' he said. ''So I was trying to think how that might work.
 ''If the guy's hanging on by a very slim thread,'' he said, ''he may not be a factor at all.''
 If the impeachment investigation does wind up just as the budget talks are ending, Mr. O'Rourke said many people won't know how to proceed. ''We don't know what's going to happen, when exactly everything's going to come together,'' he said. ''It's very uncertain and it's hard to tell.''
 That raises another important political question: Would Democrats rather negotiate with a hamstrung governor or with Ms. Rell, a steadfast fiscal conservative who has recently received strong support from lawmakers in both parties.
 As Jeff Miller, a Sandy Hook resident, wrote in a letter to The New Haven Advocate a few weeks ago, ''Why not use his moment of weakness to our state's advantage?''
 ''Why not put his shame to some good public use?'' he asked. ''Why not use his tenuous status to set the agenda for him instead of him dictating fiscal and social policy?''
 Stringing the governor along while his opponents remake the state budget is not an option, Democrats said. The impeachment process is unfolding independent of the budget process and could reach a conclusion before the governor gets a chance to vote on the budget.
 ''I don't think there's anyone who wants this cloud hanging over state government for any longer than it needs to,'' Mr. Fleischmann said.
 Unfortunately for the governor's opponents, the state's economy has only just begun to recover from its recessionary slump. Because the budget is rewritten every two years, this year's budget is considered an ''adjustment'' to last year's projections, and it doesn't give lawmakers much leeway to raise spending without also raising taxes. Lawmakers on both political sides considered last year's budget a disaster. The economy has improved over the past year and the state is expecting to receive more tax money, giving the Legislature a chance to amend some of the cuts made last year.
 But constraints on the budget continue to hamper efforts by Democrats to restore services slashed from last year's budget. The $14.3 billion spending package passed by the appropriations committee last month was a paltry $1.8 million under the state spending cap.
 Among the biggest priorities for the Democrats was reinstating funding for Medicaid and state-sponsored health programs. Medicaid recipients were unfairly saddled with premiums and co-pays that put health care out of reach for the state's poorest residents, Democrats said. That was among Democrats' biggest regrets from last year, and they said they plan to make it right.
 Cheri Quickmire, coordinator for One Connecticut, a coalition of more than 120 labor, social service and advocacy groups, said agencies that help poor people were pushing hard for these changes.
 ''That people who make $9,500 should pay $300 in premiums is just absurd,'' she said.
 Though Ms. Quickmire said she thought restoring the health care funds would ''fly on its own merits,'' she also realized the governor's position may offer an unusual opportunity. ''We are certainly hopeful that there will be leadership in the House and Senate,'' she said. ''It does seem like now would be a good time.''
 Marc Ryan, the governor's budget chief, said restoring health care spending is irresponsible and will be out of the state's reach in the long run.
 ''We can't afford these gold-plated types of health care plans for clients,'' Mr. Ryan said.
 The Democrats' plan would spend $41 million more than the governor on aid to municipalities, with some of that money going to magnet schools, according to the Office of Fiscal Analysis.
 Republicans on the appropriations committee, who voted overwhelmingly in March against the budget adjustments, said irresponsible spending in the past had put the state in an untenable position. A brightening economy isn't an excuse to repeat those mistakes, they said.
 ''We are paying dearly for our failure to be responsible over the last two years,'' said State Senator Robert Genuario, a Republican from Norwalk.
 Mr. Ryan has warned against increases in spending that could hurt the state's bond ratings and the health of the state's economy.
 Mr. Rowland isn't holding the line on all social service spending. He proposed increasing the budget for the Department of Mental Retardation to get people off that organization's waiting list for residential housing. The appropriations committee, however, voted to reduce the increase.
 Democrats and Republicans are also gearing up for a fight on the revenue side. The governor and the Democrat-controlled Legislature are fighting over whether to increase ''sin'' taxes on alcohol and cigarettes or raise taxes on the wealthiest people -- the so-called ''millionaire's tax.''
 The Democrat-controlled Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee passed a proposal about two weeks ago to impose higher taxes on joint filers who make more than $1 million, or $500,000 if they file separately, as well as increasing the state's inheritance tax.
 ''There is no way the governor is going to sign onto a budget that will reinstate the inheritance tax or increase the income tax,'' Mr. Ryan said.
 If the Democrats try to force the governor's hand on these budget adjustments, the governor may vote to stick with what the state passed last year, Mr. Ryan said.
 It may be harder for Democrats to gauge how far Mr. Rowland will bend on the budget this year, because he has been holding far fewer meetings with legislative leaders about the budget than he did in the past.
 ''I'm concerned the governor hasn't been as involved in discussions with top legislative leaders,'' said Representative Peter A. Metz, the ranking Republican on the Appropriations Committee.
 Though Mr. Metz said ''the governor has the ability to be just as effective as ever,'' he acknowledged that some Republicans do not share his confidence.
 ''I think people see the governor as working from a personal level,'' he said. ''He certainly has a strong personal influence. They're afraid that he'll lose that ability.''
 And now, some Democrats said, Mr. Ryan has appeared more willing to listen to ideas he dismissed in the past.
 Mr. Fleischmann said he was getting a better response this year to a performance-based budgeting proposal he said he thought could reform the budget process. The proposal would target government money to successful programs.
 ''It's very basic stuff that promotes good government,'' he said. ''For years when I brought up that topic I've run into a brick wall with this administration.''
 But during an Appropriations Committee hearing last month, Mr. Fleischmann said he noticed a change in the budget chief's position on the bill.
 ''He was far more open to the idea and accommodating and prepared to work with me and other legislators to make it happen than he has ever been since I met him,'' he said. ''This year I heard something much more open and accommodating. My political instincts tell me that in an environment where this administration has so many battles to be fighting and so many fires to be putting out, they're working to avoid unnecessary conflict.''
 Mr. Ryan said the governor's administration had not suddenly changed positions.
 ''I don't buy that because we've been pushing a number of accountability measures for years and the Legislature has shunned them,'' he said. He also said the governor had been as involved as ever in the budget process.
 ''He's always been actively involved in the budget and that hasn't changed one iota since some of these issues have arisen,'' Mr. Ryan said.
 Regardless of how much Mr. Rowland is involved in the day-to-day squabbles on the budget, both his opponents and supporters expect he will get to play the last hand. He, after all, can veto any budget.
 ''He still has that red pen,'' Ms. Vivier said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: State Representative Andrew Fleischmann, a Democrat, said one of his proposals is getting a better response this year. (pg. 4)
 The Appropriations Committee working on the state budget in Hartford last month, a process that some lawmakers said was going smoother this year. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); IMPEACHMENT (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); MENTAL RETARDATION (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); ETHICS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



242 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Billions of Trees Planted, and Nary a Dent in the Desert

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: AKSU, China 

 BODY:
Above a bumpy road on which each passing vehicle kicks up a cloud of dust, a red banner proclaims: ''Plant trees. Create forests. It's good for the nation.''
 Nearby, a farmer, Zhang Minqing, explained what he and his wife were doing scratching at what looked from a distance like bone-dry earth, but was really a tree farm in its infancy. The couple assured a visitor that the tiny sprigs would grow up to bear fruit in just five years, but the scene appeared all but hopeless. 
 ''Last year our first crop failed because we didn't know what we were doing,'' said Mr. Zhang, who migrated here from Sichuan Province, to take advantage of farm subsidies and promises of abundant land. ''We didn't provide enough water and they all died.''
 His sprigs of jujube trees are part of a 25-year effort by the Chinese government to rein in the Taklimakan, a desert as large as Germany. 
 International forestry experts say the scale of China's tree planting far surpasses anything ever tried. 
 According to government statistics, 42 billion trees have been planted since 1982. Last year alone, the effort involved more than 560 million people. In the latest phase of the effort, announced two years ago, China plans to plant trees in an area of 170,000 square miles -- just over the size of California -- over a decade.
 In Xinjiang, this western-most province, which is home to some of the world's biggest deserts, two million acres of trees have already been planted. It is all part of a plan to create more than a thousand ''green walls'' that will fence in the desert. Jujube trees are particularly suited to the harsh climate here, able to withstand winter temperatures near minus 30 degrees while thriving in the scorching summers.
 And yet for all their efforts, officials are hard pressed to answer two fundamental questions: has tree planting on this scale done any good, and what has it cost? 
 By one measure, the huge program appears to have achieved little. It is sandstorm season in China, a sky-darkening, lung-choking phenomenon involving wind-borne dust from the Taklimakan and Gobi deserts that plays havoc with aviation in northern China for weeks, cripples high-tech manufacturing and worsens respiratory problems as far downstream as Japan, the Korean peninsula and even the western United States.
 According to a recent report by the United Nations Environmental Program, the average number of sandstorms in China has grown from 5 in the 1960's to 24 in the 1990's. The Chinese Government itself reports that the country's deserts are expanding at a rate of 3,800 square miles a year. Indeed, some of the country's largest deserts appear to be merging.
 No exhaustive reckoning of the cost of the efforts to contain the desert, much less an appraisal of its cost effectiveness, has ever been carried out. Mass campaigns like these began in China's early Communist history, when huge social and natural engineering efforts were undertaken, often with disastrous effects.
 As part of a drive to give China the highest crop yields in the world in the mid-1950's, Mao Zedong began his so-called Four No's Campaign, putting millions of people to the task of trying to eliminate rats, sparrows, flies and mosquitoes. So many of the birds were killed that crops were infested with their natural prey, caterpillars.
 During a 1950's campaign to make China a leading steel producer, for example, part of the country's disastrous Great Leap Forward, the countryside was stripped of trees for fuel to fire backyard furnaces, causing widespread floods.
 No one expects that today's tree planting efforts will have anything like these calamitous side effects, but if the campaign is not effective, the huge cost is, if nothing else, a financial disaster. 
 Jiang Gaoming, an expert with the Chinese Academy of Science, said the government would do better to ''leave the desert alone.''
 To plant trees on such a vast scale, ''economically and ecologically, it is a big waste of money,'' he said. ''There is a serious problem of interests involved, and some people don't care, because it is state money.'' 
 Liu Tuo, director of the state Antidesertification Office, rejected criticism of the program's merits. ''This is a comprehensive effort to fight the desertification problem, and it is the correct policy,'' he said. ''The reason the desert was still growing at the end of the 20th century is not because the policy is wrong. It results from the pressure of population growth and the resulting damage to the environment.'' 
 Many international experts, however, say that at best the jury is still out. ''There are all kinds of Johnny Appleseed-type stories about some guy who keeps planting trees in the desert, and 50 years later, the land is back,'' said William Hyde, an economist and forester with extensive experience in China. ''I just don't know if this works, and if it does, what the cost- benefit basis of it is. And I don't think any Chinese agricultural economist has looked seriously into this either.''
 Stands of poplars line the roads out of town and rise here and there from otherwise desolate-looking earth.
 ''Everyone in the project must work 26 days a year planting trees, and if you work more, you get paid extra,'' said Liu Xuemin, a 33-year-old farmer who leaned against his mud-caked Forever bicycle next to an irrigated field full of saplings. ''The idea is to plant these trees here as a break against the sand, which is carried by the wind.''
 Asked if there was real desert nearby, Mr. Liu issued a sharp chuckle, and pointed to a nearby path strewn with tumbleweed and brambles, saying, ''Just follow that.'' At the end of the path, just beyond a tall berm, Sahara-like dunes stretched to the horizon.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In northwest China, the Taklimakan's sands are shifting toward poplar trees planted west of Aksu in a vast project intended to halt desertification.
 Mu Guixiang at her home near Aksu in Xinjiang Province, China, where an official campaign seeks to hold back the Taklimakan Desert. (Photographs by Stuart Isett/Polaris, for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''The Desert, Undeterred''Have China's mass plantings done much to contain the desert? Scientists are hard pressed to say.Graph and map track the average number of rainy days in the Taklimakan Desert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); STATISTICS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); XINJIANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); WEST USA (79%); GOBI DESERT (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



243 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; COPING

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Zestfully Pursuing A Living, In the Raw

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''EXPERIENCED Shucker Wanted,'' the sign in the window said. ''Inquire Within.''
 As signs go, this one has captured its share of attention in the three weeks since it went up at Jezebel, one of the few longtime, black-owned, upscale restaurants in New York, let alone Midtown. People have peered at it, asked about it, and a couple of people have even applied. But then attention seems to come effortlessly for Alberta Wright, proprietor of Jezebel, a former lover's pet name for Ms. Wright, who was sitting this day on a barstool wearing mannish loafers, flouncy black skirt and silver bangle earrings. 
 In this case, it was that oxymoronic juxtaposition of the phrase ''shucker wanted,'' which seemed to be advertising a working-class position dockside in a rough part of town, and the antique gentility of the admonition ''Inquire Within'' that caught the eye.
 But Ms. Wright is like that too, oxymoronic. She can talk about friends like Michael Douglas, Andre Leon Talley, Lauren Hutton as if everybody had them, saying that they helped her when she started out, and in the next breath let slip that she was a migrant laborer, so many years ago that she doesn't care to count them. 
 She never craved a raw bar, until now. ''One man came by and said: 'Shucker! What kind of shucker are you looking for?''' she recounted.
 Her son, Michael, an actor (''The Principal,'' with James Belushi, ''Sugar Hill,'' with Wesley Snipes), happened to be in the restaurant at the time. ''Oyster shucker,'' he said. ''Raw bar.''
 The man was not mollified. He warned Mr. Wright: ''Some black guy is going to come by from the ghetto, and say: 'Let's shuck. What you want me to shuck? Take it all off.'''
 This drove Ms. Wright to the Internet, where she looked up ''shuck'' in the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, and discovered that it did, indeed, have to do with removing outer coverings. So she amended her sign to read, ''Experienced Oyster Shucker Wanted. Inquire Within.''
 A couple of men who said they had been oyster shuckers at Docks on the Upper West Side applied, but the one she liked never returned. ''Let me tell you, there aren't many shuckers,'' she said. ''You can't leave sand or shell in the oyster, because people can choke on that. You have to know how to smell 'em, make sure the oysters are good.''
 She considered luring a shucker from another raw bar, but worried about the ethics of such a move. She regretted not having visited the picket line outside the Oyster Bar at Grand Central Terminal before the strike there was settled two weeks ago. ''I know a lot of these guys are Mexican, and people have a tendency not to pay them well. I was a migrant worker one time, so I know.''
 Ms. Wright grew up on a farm outside Charleston, S.C., the youngest of nine children. At 17, she hitched a ride to Florida on a trailer truck. ''I picked string beans,'' she said. ''I packed celery. I cut lettuce. Trust me, I'm the type to do anything to make a living.''
 As ''Summertime'' blared over the sound system, Ms. Wright jumped off her bar stool. ''Hey, guys, that's too loud,'' she demurred. Not that she didn't like the singer. ''Aaron Neville. Him and Ron Isley, they're my two favorites.'' 
 The dinner hour was heating up, and Ms. Wright excused herself for a moment to seat a customer. ''Hirschman,'' said the customer, an older woman in heavy silver beads. Behind her was her husband, Albert O. Hirschman, the economist whom some credit with popularizing the concept of the exit strategy, which he called the exit option, and who was celebrating his 89th birthday. ''As long as you're in love, you can sit close,'' Ms. Wright cooed, finding a corner table where Warhol's Muhammad Ali looked down from one side and a gauzy French maiden from the other. 
 Ms. Wright recommended the she-crab soup, spiked with sherry and nutmeg. She doesn't like to overindulge in her own she-crab soup; so much cream. Ms. Wright is very thin.
 And stylish. She has sold antique clothing and antique furniture. She ran a restaurant, also named Jezebel, on the Left Bank in Paris. She opened it on impulse --she had had a French boyfriend, a grandnephew of Toulouse-Lautrec -- and closed it after a few years. The New York Jezebel has lasted 20.
 How does one get from South Carolina to Paris and New York? ''I have no idea,'' she replied. ''Life, you know, we gotta take it all in stride.'' 
 Then Ms. Wright changed the subject to more urgent matters. ''This shucker thing. I really hope I get a shucker, let me tell you. Clams, scallops. I make a salad out of raw scallop with balsamic vinegar. My own recipe.''
 Inquire within.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); MIGRANT WORKERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



244 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29; All the Nest Eggs in One Company Basket

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Corning Shows Risk of Betting Fortune on Employer

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: CORNING, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In the late 1990's, George Stewart used to eat at a table they called the million-dollar club. Mr. Stewart, now 61, was a machinist for Corning Inc., working the overnight shift for $18.32 an hour. But in his retirement account, composed entirely of Corning stock, he was a millionaire. In 2000, as the stock neared its peak, Mr. Stewart retired, moving his money into a secure bond fund.
 Gordon Casterline, six years younger than Mr. Stewart, never made it to the million-dollar table. When his retirement account, also in Corning stock, swelled to $500,000, he began planning to retire early, too. But in late 2000, the share price went into free fall, dropping to a dollar and change, from $113. ''It wrenched my gut,'' Mr. Casterline said. ''You had to sit there and watch it go down, down, down.'' 
 Nowadays, he is still at work as a union executive, hoping to retire later this year, but with a much smaller nest egg than he had planned. 
 Such stories abound in this company town, where loyalty, self-interest and faith in the company led many to bet their retirement portfolios almost exclusively on the stock of their employer. Economists said what happened here offered a pristine window on the mixed fortunes and stresses that come with retirement accounts based on company stock.
 Nationally, about 25 percent of 401(k) assets are in workers' company stock, according to Hewitt Associates, a company that tracks the investment choices of 1.5 million 401(k) participants. Among employees with some company stock in their 401(k) accounts, 11.5 percent have almost nothing else, according to a study by Jack L. VanDerhei, a member of the Temple University business school faculty who studies employee benefits.
 While news stories have focused on employees of companies like Enron and Adelphia, who lost their retirement dreams because of executive mismanagement or corruption, workers at name-brand companies like Polaroid, Lucent, Procter & Gamble and Corning have also gone through wild ups and downs related to the vagaries of business. Corning stock plunged when telecommunications companies, the customers for Corning's fiber optic cables, suffered setbacks.
 This town of 11,000 in the Finger Lakes region of western New York is intimately tied to the company named after it, which at its peak employed 8,300 people in the area. People here speak of modest dreams that came and went with the boom: a chance to pay for a family vacation, to help with their grandchildren's education or just to retire early.
 During the stock's descent, a downtown bar noted that if you had $1,000, you were better off investing it in beer and redeeming the deposit on the cans than buying Corning stock. 
 As more companies have shifted from traditional pensions to retirement investment plans, or 401(k) accounts, many workers find themselves trying to time their retirements to the volatile fortunes of a single company stock. Often workers have little preparation for this decision. 
 ''It's hard to figure when enough is enough,'' said Thomas Cosgrove, 61, a Corning sheet-metal worker who retired and moved his money into another fund well before the company's stock hit its peak. Some of his friends hung on longer and made fortunes; some held on still longer and lost it all. ''I wish I'd had an economic background,'' Mr. Cosgrove said. ''I might have done things differently.''
 At many companies -- including, until recently, Corning -- employees under 55 are limited in their ability to convert company stock unless they retire early, sacrificing other retirement benefits. ''Companies say they want employees to have a vested interest in the company doing well,'' Mr. VanDerhei said. ''A lot of employees say, 'If it's good enough for the employer to match, it's good enough for me.'''
 But this exposes them to unpredictable risk, as any single stock can swing precipitously, even when the market is stable. ''Company stock is one of the most serious problems that hasn't gotten the attention it deserves,'' said Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''It's so imprudent to have your investments in the same spot as your human capital.'' 
 Mr. Stewart now works part time in an engine repair shop, just to keep busy. He said most of his peers at the million-dollar table sold their Corning stock before its decline. ''It never felt real,'' he said. ''My grandkids used to call me The Millionaire.'' These days, he said, he feels fortunate that time was on his side. ''The younger guys say, 'All you old guys got out at the right time.'''
 Mr. Casterline was one of the younger guys. ''I thought I could pay off my daughter's student loans,'' he said. ''I saw things like that dwindle. I don't ever expect to have $500,000 in there again.'' 
 Like many companies with 401(k) plans, Corning allows employees to choose among several funds, one of which is company stock. The company then matches all or part of the employee's contribution with Corning stock. Employees also receive a traditional pension.
 In the late 1990's, as Corning's business shifted from consumer products to fiber optics, business boomed. Its stock price rose 1,000 percent in two years. The boutiques on Market Street here started flaunting luxury goods; the hills around town bustled with new home construction.
 ''Suddenly we had more millionaires than any town in the country,'' said Donald Morton, 60, who runs a group of Corning union retirees. ''This is a factory town. We never thought we were going to have any money. Everyone started to joke, 'Now I'm a millionaire, watch how you talk to me.''' 
 Mr. Casterline and Mr. Stewart had never bought stock before joining the 401(k) plan when it was first offered in 1989. Both invested exclusively in Corning stock because they had faith in the company, they said. Even when the stock went down, caught in the meltdown in the telecommunications industry, Mr. Casterline said: ''I said, 'I've got 30 years in this company. I know it's coming back.''' 
 This confidence, which echoes throughout the town, is a common factor leading employees to choose company stock, economists say. After Enron's collapse, in which top executives urged employees to buy more stock even as the executives sold their own, Senators Jon Corzine and Barbara Boxer, among others, proposed legislation to give employees more freedom to move funds out of company stock. So far none has passed, though many companies, including Corning, have made it easier for employees to move their investments to other funds. 
 But Ms. Munnell of Boston College said such legislation would likely have little effect, because people do not want to shed their company stock. 
 ''People see the higher-paid executives getting rich,'' she said. ''There's an endorsement effect. Even if the employer doesn't say, 'You should buy,' they see the employer putting an investment in the stock, so they think it must be a good idea.'' 
 Roberta Andrews, 58, who joined the company in 1972 and worked in inventory control, said she put her 401(k) mostly in Corning stock even though a financial planner at the credit union advised her to diversify. 
 While helping her 10-year-old grandson with his math homework, she described the elation that swept the town after the stock started to levitate in September 1998. ''It was beautiful,'' she said. ''We were all rich. Everyone was watching every day on the computer. Then they'd check again at lunch.'' By the autumn of 2000, Ms. Andrews said, she was worth about $750,000. ''But I never went wild with spending,'' she said. ''The most I did was buy curtains.''
 When the stock started to fall, she lost interest in watching the computer, she said. She retired in 2001 and kept most of her assets in Corning stock, which hit bottom in 2002, but has recently climbed back to about one-tenth of its peak. She now lives off her pension. 
 William B. Burns, a financial planner in town, said that even clients who diversified were hit by the ripples of Corning's stock decline. With the combination of new construction and layoffs at the company, real estate values dropped sharply. 
 ''There were a lot of vacant homes in the area,'' Mr. Burns said. ''Our clients had done everything right, and now they wanted to move, but they couldn't sell their homes.'' 
 Even among those who got out early, the rise and fall of company stock has left some questions and regrets. Judith Ratcliffe, a business manager at Corning and then at World Kitchen, the company that bought Corning's housewares division, spread her 401(k) in different funds, but still lost $400,000 on Corning stock. ''It was one hell of a ride,'' said Ms. Ratcliffe, who retired this year, at 57, despite her losses.
 ''At the end of the day, what are you going to do?'' she asked. ''You can't pretend it didn't happen. 
 ''It gives a whole bunch of people something to talk about. Now people know what it means to lose it all. But I haven't detected any bitterness.'' She spoke of her own fortunes almost like she might discuss a fluke weather pattern, from which no precautions could avert all damage. ''I probably wouldn't have done anything different,'' she said. ''You learn and you move on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gordon Casterline was planning an early retirement before Corning's stock price went into a free fall. At one time he had $500,000 in his account.
George Stewart retired in 2000 as Corning stock neared its peak value. His retirement account was made up entirely of stock in the company. (Photographs by Max Schulte for The New York Times)(pg. 29)
Kirby Nash drops a lawn tractor at George Stewart's home. Mr. Stewart, a retiree, runs a repair shop.
 A Corning retiree, Thomas Cosgrove, with his wife, Mary Ellen. He retired well before the company's stock hit its peak. (Photographs by Max Schulte for The New York Times)(pg. 32)Chart: ''Up and Down''Corning's weekly closing share price.Graph tracks Corning's weekly closing share price since 1995.(Source by Bloomberg)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BONDS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BOND FUNDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORNING INC (94%); AON HEWITT (82%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (94%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (94%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (82%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



245 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2614 words

HEADLINE: War of the Roses

BYLINE: By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
SAL SADEK stood in the open-air patio of his 15-year-old flower shop, Nature's Foliage and Gardens, a tall, solid man oblivious to the late-winter chill. ''After spring,'' he said, gesturing to the bags of fertilizer and dwarf Alberta spruce trees around him, ''this is going to be history.'' 
 He is right. Work has already begun on the apartment building that will rise on his lot, at West 28th Street and the Avenue of the Americas.
 Mr. Sadek is the latest casualty in a long, quiet war of attrition that has transformed New York's once-bustling flower district into a motley and diminishing collection of merchants. Where once there were more than 60 flower wholesalers, there are 32, according to Gary Page, president of the Flower Market Association, a trade group. 
 Battered by real estate pressures, a tough economy and other adversities, the wholesalers and a number of flower retailers huddle mostly along 28th Street between Seventh Avenue and Broadway amid import-export companies, wholesale accessories outlets and sidewalk pocketbook vendors.
 The Flower Market Association has been trying to address the issue. Its members offered to buy an 80,000-square-foot warehouse in Long Island City, Queens. Although the deal fell through a few weeks ago, the trade group is eyeing the far western edge of Gansevoort Market; in December the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation received a $30,000 grant from the J.M. Kaplan Fund to study that site. The flower merchants are also looking at a building the Durst Organization is constructing at 11th Avenue and 57th Street.
 But some of the merchants fear that these relocation efforts will end the way all previous efforts have: in failure. 
 ''They've been moving since I was in diapers,'' said Steven Rosenberg, co-owner of Superior Florists, which was founded in 1930 by his grandfather. ''And they're still here.''
 Part of the trouble is that what the merchants seek -- 100,000 to 150,000 square feet of space, ideally in Manhattan, that offers ample parking and affordable rent -- is elusive. But the market also suffers from rifts between wholesalers and retailers, and between owners and renters, that make agreement an elusive goal.
 ''The first time we talked to the flower market was in 1968,'' said Douglas Durst, a co-president of his family's company. The Dursts then had a site available at 43rd Street and 10th Avenue, but according to Mr. Durst, ''At that point, they just didn't have strong enough leadership in their group to keep a consensus of what to do.'' The site became the Manhattan Plaza Towers.
 Now an ominous clock is ticking. Many merchants predict dire consequences if they don't quickly get their act together and move. ''We are only a very short period of time away from leases expiring,'' said Councilwoman Christine Quinn, whose district includes the area, ''and losing the flower market.''

In Pursuit of the Bell Song Tulip
 Despite the current troubles in the flower district, many people are still loyal to the old-fashioned, sociable way in which business unfolds there. In their eyes, buying quality flowers is still a matter of touch, smell and trust. One such loyalist is Seth Cohen, a designer for Atlas Floral Decorations in Manhattan and the in-house florist at the Pierre Hotel, which monthly buys 30,000 stems, as they're known in the business.
 ''They know the quality I'm looking for,'' said Mr. Cohen, who spoke before sunrise on a recent morning as he shopped for flowers to decorate the hotel's lobbies. ''They take care of me.'' Mr. Cohen, who looks a little worn from so many predawn workdays, knows who has the best eyes on the street, and who will, as he says, ''give me a little price.''
 The other morning, he started with a quick tour of the market, patting down a purplish-blue sea of hydrangeas, testing them for freshness, and stopping to smell a fat, butter-colored bunch of narcissus. There was a steady traffic of roses on the predawn streets, which were lined with white vans and banks of pussy willows. The sweet, wet smell of commingled flowers permeated everything, and splashes of color -- yellow tulips, bales of pink magnolias -- spilled from the storefronts.
 By 6:40, Mr. Cohen had ensconced himself amid the dense banks of flowers at Dutch Flower Line, a wholesaler, for coffee, serious shopping and some banter with Casper Trap, the manager. Soon, Mr. Cohen had swept up 150 Bell Song tulips, distinctive because of their bubble-gum-pink petals edged with lacy white fringe, and 200 sweet peas to go with them. 
 The tulips went for 90 cents a stem, and though they were just the beginning of Mr. Cohen's purchases the prices didn't seem to be budging much. ''It's a daily fight between me and Seth,'' Mr. Trap joked.
 Mr. Cohen, who typically visits the market three mornings a week and spends up to two hours -- ''A lot of it is social,'' he explained -- said he would hate to see the place disappear. ''I would do everything in my head, but I think that would standardize my product more,'' he said. ''I come here and look at these flowers. They speak to me emotionally. I would hate to give that up.''

Garden in Midtown
 Mr. Cohen, who has been shopping at the flower market for a decade, is heir to a rich Manhattan tradition that extends back to the 19th century, when flower pushcarts and shops, many owned by immigrants from Germany, Italy, Eastern Europe and especially Greece, emerged to cater to rising demand. Growers from Long Island took the ferry into the city and went from retailer to retailer, selling their wares.
 By the 1870's, according to Sarah Henry, the deputy director for programs at the Museum of the City of New York, these transactions were consolidated near the East 34th Street ferry landing. With the emergence of the site, a new class of businessman appeared: the flower wholesaler, who gathered cut flowers from growers and sold them to retailers for a commission.
 By the mid-1890's most wholesalers had moved to Sixth Avenue between 26th and 29th Streets. They wanted to be closer to their customers, both the upscale department stores along Ladies' Mile and the elegant residences on Fifth Avenue, but also the theaters, restaurants and brothels in the nearby Tenderloin district. 
 The flower district soon became entrenched and flourished there into the 1970's. In its heyday, it drew buyers from throughout the metropolitan region and even from Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. More tons of flowers changed hands in New York than anywhere in the world except Amsterdam, according to a 1977 newspaper article. 
 The old market was dominated by family businesses, and by men. In a back room of his shop, Mitchell Vlachos, an owner of Harry Vlachos Inc., keeps a yellowed photograph of a 1935 dinner given by the Wholesale Cut Flower Protective Association at a restaurant called Billy the Oysterman's. In the picture, 36 men in suits, each with a carnation boutonniere, sit at long tables. Only two are smiling. 
 ''The old-school flower market had character,'' said Mike Nikolis, an owner of Bill's Flower Market. Men with cigars clamped in their teeth roamed the streets before dawn, and their bartering was cut with off-color jokes. There was a local bookie, who could be found at Pete and Nick's, a long-gone coffee shop that served as a market-gathering place. And unlike enclaves like the Fulton Fish Market, the flower district, with its plant-lined streets, sat right in the much-traveled heart of Midtown. ''Chaos, the smell of chrysanthemums, that's all I remember,'' Mr. Nikolis said. ''You could smell the chrysanthemums from a block away.''

A House Divided
 Efforts to move this picturesque place date back decades. As long ago as 1918, a splinter group of wholesalers moved to the Siegel-Cooper Building, on Sixth Avenue and 18th Street; two years later, they moved back to the heart of the district.
 By the late 1970's, however, some large wholesalers began to migrate for good to the suburbs. Others followed, and, today, the market is a shell of its former self.
 ''There is no market,'' said Mr. Rosenberg of Superior Florists. ''It doesn't exist anymore. O.K., that's a little dramatic, but it's not like it used to be.'' His shop, once flanked by wholesale flower merchants, now finds itself at the outskirts of the district, sandwiched between a wholesale jeweler and a wholesale purse and bag shop.
 The forces hurting the market grew stronger in 1995, when the local zoning was changed to allow for housing. Since then, four residential towers, with a total of nearly 1,200 units, have sprung up in the district. The newest addition, the gleaming 38-story Aston, stands at 28th Street and the Avenue of the Americas like a beacon of the neighborhood's future, with rents that range from $2,200 a month for a studio to $2,500 for a two-bedroom unit.
 As newcomers move in, clashes increase. Residents have complained about blocked sidewalks and open garbage bags spilling flowers, while merchants complain that parking and traffic problems have made it prohibitively difficult for customers to visit their stores.
 The market was also battered by 9/11 and the recession, which merchants say drove down business 25 to 40 percent, as well as industry changes that have cut into profits. Improved transportation and the rise of the Internet have allowed more florists to buy direct from growers in places like Holland. The city's wholesalers face more competition from their suburban counterparts, and the retailers must compete with the ubiquitous New York delis that sell flowers around the clock.
 ''All my costs have gone up over the years,'' Mr. Nikolis said. ''My rose prices have gone down. Where's the money to be made?'' On Valentine's Day in 1978, he said, roses sold retail for $3 a stem. This year, he could get only $2 a stem. Meanwhile, costs of expenses like labor, parking tickets and insurance have climbed.
 The Flower Market Association, the trade group that represents wholesalers and retailers, was formed in 1999 to help merchants find a new space, but its efforts have been uphill. Many alternative sites have been identified, only to be rejected. Failed candidates include locations in College Point, Queens, and Hunts Point in the Bronx; the Harlem River Yards; the old Global Crossing building on 11th Avenue; and the former site of the Tunnel nightclub on West 28th Street.
 Usable open space in the city is increasingly scarce, but the biggest stumbling block to relocation seems to be disputes among the merchants themselves. James Cooke, the executive director of the association and its only paid, full-time staff member, left in November, after 15 months on the job. There are no plans to replace him. Merchants had hoped the group would grow under his leadership, but membership stands at 44, down from 70 less than two years ago. ''The feeling was that we were absolutely nowhere closer after having employed James,'' said Mr. Page, who is the owner of G. Page Wholesale Flowers as well as the association president.
 Mr. Cooke insists that he did everything he could to increase membership but was hobbled by a tough economy and the fact that, as he put it, ''flower market people are generally tight with a buck.'' Mr. Cooke, who now works for a nonprofit group based in Montvale, N.J., said he had trouble getting even charter members to show up for meetings. ''I tried to provide as much leadership as I could, given the conflicted signals I got from a variety of people,'' he said. ''There are just some basic disconnects that you can't bridge.''
 The association suffers from economic fault lines. The biggest problem, according to several merchants, is that some wholesalers sell directly to individual customers, undercutting the retailers' business. 
 Real estate also divides the group. Merchants who own their shops are in no hurry to leave, even though they could profit greatly from leasing or selling their property. But those who rent are highly vulnerable to the escalating cost of local land. Mr. Sadek, for instance, said he had been paying $30 a square foot, but as he hunted for a new store, the asking prices ran from $120 to $150 a square foot. As Victor Rallis, who has worked for four decades at the flower wholesaler his father started, put it: ''The biggest problem I see is that someone always wants to stay behind in the city. Then you get, 'Well, if he's staying, I'm not going.'''
 Moreover, while many wholesalers are willing to relocate outside Manhattan, many retailers regard such a move as suicidal. ''I'm used to the Upper East Siders coming down and spending $500 to $800 to do their terrace in the spring,'' Mr. Sadek said. ''I'm not going to go fight with Home Depot.''
 It was a refusal to leave Manhattan that sank the Long Island City proposal. Now the association is focusing on sites in Manhattan, including the new Durst building and the Gansevoort area. Next month, the designer Diane von Furstenberg is to hold a benefit at her studio on West 12th Street to raise more money to study the practicality of a move to Gansevoort.

Fish and Flowers
 Although the flower district has been struggling mightily with the issue of relocation, not every other market has had such problems. Next January, for example, every one of the Fulton Fish Market's 50-plus merchants will move into a candy-colored, fully refrigerated $85 million city-built facility in Hunts Point.
 Flower sellers have a very different relationship with the city. Three-quarters of the fish market is currently housed in city-owned property, and by moving those merchants out of lower Manhattan, the city will open up a prime piece of real estate. That is not the case with the flower market, whose buildings are held by a variety of private owners. According to Councilwoman Quinn, this may be one reason past administrations didn't stay committed to helping the flower market move.
 Another difference is that fish occupy a bigger place in the city economy than flowers. While the Fulton Fish Market employs about 600 people, the flower market has an estimated 250 workers. As for revenue, the city's Economic Development Corporation estimates that the fish market generates $1 billion a year. The agency does not keep statistics for the flower market, but according to a 2000 estimate by the Flower Market Association, its revenues were $100 million to $120 million and have subsequently fallen.
 Ms. Quinn suspects that the small size of the flower market may also affect the way it is treated by the city. ''At the end of the day, how many jobs an industry creates certainly drives the level of attention they get from government,'' she said.
 Janel Patterson, an E.D.C. spokeswoman, rebutted the claim, saying that the city had been working with the flower market for several years to find adequate, affordable space. ''We recognize its importance to the city's economy,'' she said, ''and we're eager to help them in their relocation efforts.''
 Where the market goes from here is uncertain, although many people expect the flower market to cleave along economic lines: Wholesalers and renters will go, somewhere; retailers and owners will stay.
 Mr. Rallis is optimistic that some sort of move will occur. ''Moving this market in unison is an impossible task,'' he said. ''Moving it with the least fragmentation possible is doable.'' If a large part of the market moves, and the site has parking and ample space, he added, ''people will want to come.''
 Others are less sure. ''The market is not going to go anywhere,'' Mr. Nikolis predicted. ''Nobody can agree on the time of day. You want them to move to a new location? No way.''
 What would it take? ''A miracle,'' he replied.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ENDANGERED SPECIES -- A stretch of West 28th Street, left, is all that remains of the city's once thriving flower district. The search is on for a new site, but bickering among florists may stall a market-saving move. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
(Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
WITHERING ON THE VINE -- Gary Page, top, president of the florists' trade group
haggling circa 1971, center
and, above, Seth Cohen, in-house florist for the Pierre Hotel. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
(Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLORISTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); RETAILERS (90%); NURSERY WHOLESALERS (78%); HISTORY (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



246 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 30; ART

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: The Emerald Megacities of Southeast Asia

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG

 BODY:
THE megacities of Southeast Asia are a dream and a nightmare cohabiting. Emperors could only dream of capitals that so prodigally display might and money; urban planners must wake screaming from visions of massed poverty in the same places. Authors of fairy tales might have dreamed up the architecture while particle physicists sank into reveries of how much energy a mere city could generate. Claustrophobes are condemned to the nightmare of midget apartments that ring with the heavy metal noise; drivers fret the hours away in pinched streets shrouded in gasoline fumes.
 The United Nations says that by 2010, some 18 of the world's 30 largest cities will be in Asia (compared to only three from Europe and North America). In the region's new megacities, height is might, speed is wealth, density is power, and the skyscraper -- that American symbol of modernity -- grows on steroids and is colonizing the sky. 
 Peter Bialobrzeski, a German photographer fascinated by the techno-utopian fantasies that intensive growth produces, views these cities as part science fiction and part theme park. In ''Peter Bialobrzeski: Neon Tigers -- Photographs of Asian Megacities,'' a show of nine of his large photographs at the Laurence Miller Gallery on West 57th Street, some of the apartment buildings are so jammed together that a bird would have trouble squeezing between them. But the cities -- Bangkok, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Kuala Lumpur -- glow with the deliciously sweet, marzipan tints of Easter eggs or with musky, romantic, slightly melancholy pastels that haven't yet been named. This is a vision of Oz beset by a population explosion and invaded by real estate developers who have tripped out on sorbet.
 Mr. Bialobrzeski achieves his unorthodox palette by going out in the late afternoon or early evening, most likely around 7, when the neon and fluorescent lights come on and mingle with the residual gleam of day. He has a four-by-five-inch view camera, a tripod and a large supply of patience. His exposures are long, from one-fifteenth of a second to four minutes. At these speeds, the film can't register people rushing past; some disappear, others become transparent ghosts. Even the cars in one image are reduced to pale pink outlines and transparent plasmas.
 He does not manipulate his pictures on a computer and swears the colors are true to the sites, if only for a bare two minutes as the light falls off the turning world. He says he never knows for sure when the moment is right but simply senses it -- and misses five times out of six. His more startling pictures, like one with mint-green buildings and a mint-green sky or another with an orange river next to a blue one that has bright pink lines whizzing across it (the only evidence of boat traffic), celebrate the inability of photographic film to deal equitably with tungsten, fluorescent and neon light at the same time. Light and time play such odd tricks that street lamps become miniature galactic explosions, a sparkler sends a ferocious cartwheel of spiky orange lines diving into a river and a mysterious, elegant white form, resembling a piece of Venetian glass, hovers in a clear sky like a U.F.O. 
 Mr. Bialobrzeski was strongly influenced by the 1982 sci-fi film ''Blade Runner,'' set in a futuristic Los Angeles where street life has splintered and surly crowds push past the jumbled remains of modern technology. An essay by Florian Hanig, an editor at the German magazine Geo, in Mr. Bialobrzeski's new book of photographs, ''Neon Tigers,'' to be published in July by Hatje Cantz/D.A.P., suggests that ''Blade Runner'' has become reality in Asia. Mr. Hanig writes of a Chinese architect who, in the 1990's, lived in a small room with no natural light (because more than 100,000 people lived in a one-kilometer-square area) and was surprised by reviews calling the film ''a gloomy vision of a big-city future.'' ''This is the future,'' he thought, ''and I am living in it. It is called Hong Kong.''
 Mr. Bialobrzeski's photographs are either dreams of a new city or images of cities dreaming; they hint at untold complexities. Asian megacities have been coaxed into vibrant, distinctive forms, a kind of geometric expression of electricity, by their dense compression, their height and the voracious speed of real estate development and profit. Some rise to meet the residents they have lodged near the clouds, elevating roads, escalators and walkways on stilts so that people no longer have to descend to earth to work and shop. Highways leap over the cities like illuminated roller coasters. High-rise residential buildings are vertically integrated to include stores and services. Some buildings are grouped around malls, and Mr. Hanig writes that malls in East and South Asia are ''palaces,'' where live orchestras send the strains of Vivaldi floating across marble floors and teak walls.
 The synergistic effects of fast construction and faster fortunes often turn out cookie-cutter buildings differentiated solely by decorative icings, but some architects also concoct contemporary blends of Western modernism and technology with traditional, indigenous design. A few, conscious that they are not merely futuristic but the future itself, have adopted the visual language of science fiction, turning their buildings into stationary rockets and spaceships. Top architects of the world have flocked to the Asian opportunity. In Shanghai alone, Richard Rogers, I. M. Pei, Norman Foster, Paul Andreu, Toyo Ito, Rem Koolhaas, Dominique Perreault and Kohn Pedersen Fox have lent their talents to the building boom. Some of the buildings are extravagantly beautiful, some are merely extravagant.
 Though almost everything looks new in Mr. Bialobrzeski's photographs, and frenzied construction has demolished many valuable icons of Asian art and history, a lot of traditional sites in these cities have been saved for their profitable tourist potential. Money talks and flows. In some megacities, the per capita income is higher than in many European nations, and although the Tiger economies fell into economic depression late in the 1990's, the young just lived with their parents and went out shopping with the money they had left. 
 Yet these cities also harbor, and foster, immense pools of poverty, as people stream into them in search of jobs that are not there or for which they are not equipped. If ''Blade Runner'' was set in the desolate aftermath of technology run amok, the new cities have managed desolation without much outside assistance, right next to bonanzas on stilts. Accompanying the jewel-box pinnacles and necklaces of diamond-bright windows are intractable pollution caused by industry and automobiles, severe unsanitary conditions and unsafe water, all of which are scarcely visible to financiers, tourists or a camera drunk on intoxicating hues.
 The urban centers in Mr. Bialobrzeski's pictures flow together into a single fictional city more real than reality, for cities are no longer singular places but nodes in the information network, ''not a place but a process,'' as Manuel Castells wrote in 1996 in ''The Rise of Network Society.''
 The megacities of Southeast Asia exist in these images as a fantasy that makes no solid distinctions between Shanghai, Hong Kong and Kuala Lumpur. Peter Bialobrzeski's photographs put a radiant, glamorous face on globalization and the invisible and powerful network that shapes our surroundings -- and virtually runs our lives.

Peter Bialobrzeski
Laurence Miller Gallery, 20 West 57th Street.
Through May 15.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Bialobrzeski's Oz-like images of highways in Shanghai, above, and apartments in Hong Kong. (Photo courtesy of the Laurence Miller Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); PHYSICS (72%); WRITERS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (78%) ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (78%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



247 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: Tough Times on the Island? Poll and Stats Diverge

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
THE gap dividing the rich and comfortably well-off from nearly everyone else is growing wider on Long Island, and more middle- and lower-middle-income working adults are pessimistic about the region's future and their ability to make ends meet, according to a new report by the Rauch Foundation of Garden City.
 The report, based on the foundation's third survey of Long Islanders' opinions in a year, found that among those earning more than $60,000, 33 percent reported increasing income and only 15 percent said their income had decreased, while 45 percent of families earning $20,000 to $60,000 were feeling an economic squeeze and more were losing economic ground than gaining. 
 In a region with a median household income for a family of four of $84,346, making it among the richest areas in the country, the poll found a pervasive case of the jitters among all income classes. It found that 61 percent of Nassau and Suffolk residents rated their county's economy as fair or poor, 53 percent thought finding a job was hard and only 43 percent believed their current jobs were secure.
 Some local experts expressed surprise at the findings. Irwin L. Kellner, a professor of economics at Hofstra University and the chief economist for North Fork Bank, said the view that the region's economy was in bad shape and jobs were hard to find departed from economic reality. 
 ''The statistics I have followed from the Labor Department would cause me to disagree with that,'' Dr. Kellner said. ''Because for the last 14 months the Long Island economy has been creating jobs and that makes it stronger than the rest of the region, but also the rest of the country.'' He said the jobs were in health care, education, financial services and telecommunications.
 ''As far as getting jobs, it depends on what industry,'' he said. ''For financial services you might have difficulty, but for health care the help-wanted shingle is out.''
 The poll was conducted by telephone in October, and some of the results were released in February. Results were based on responses from 1,200 adults in Nassau and Suffolk, 600 adults from New York City, 300 from the New Jersey suburbs and 400 from the northern suburbs. The margin of error ranged from plus or minus 2.8 percentage points on Long Island and 5.7 percentage points in the New Jersey suburbs.
 Craig R. Charney, a senior research fellow at the New School in Manhattan and president of Charney Research, the company that conducted the poll, said that the findings, even on economic questions, remained valid despite the six months that elapsed between the polling and the release of results. ''There haven't been any major changes in economic circumstances on Long Island that I am aware of since the poll occurred, so I would be surprised if there were any big changes in attitudes,'' he said.
 But another pollster said a six-month delay could raise questions. ''That's highly unusual,'' said Michael D. Dawidziak, a political consultant whose company, Strategic Planning Strategies in Bohemia, does public opinion polling.
 ''What has happened in the last six months could change those attitudes,'' Mr. Dawidziak said. He questioned the finding that optimism about the region's direction was fading.
 ''I certainly sense a lot of optimism in Suffolk,'' he said. ''The stock market seems to have settled down to some degree and unemployment figures are not as bad as people thought they would be. I don't think we should bring out the confetti and celebrate, but clearly there is a certain sense of enthusiasm.''
 The economists, planners and pollsters appeared to be in accord on the notion that many young residents face difficulties finding housing in the high-priced Long Island real estate market. 
 The survey found that high home prices and living costs were driving away the region's sons and daughters, or at least inspiring dreams of flight. A part of the survey released in February found that 53 percent of residents age 18 to 35 -- most of them white, native-born and middle class -- have considered leaving the region. 
 The Rauch report also suggests that the Island is too white, too straight and too rigidly suburban for its own economic good, and must now try to become more accepting of diversity to attract and retain a youthful and creative class of workers that will be a key to the region's future success.
 ''We have to attract that creative class,'' said Carrie Meek Gallagher, the director of the Long Island Index, a regional profile developed by the Rauch Foundation and based on periodic polling. ''That's your next generation of talent and leadership.'' 
 The report said the results showed ''significant room for improvement in intergroup relations on Long Island,'' which it described as a prerequisite for a cultural milieu that would attract and retain these new socially and ethnically diverse residents. 
 In response to survey questions, Long Island residents showed what the foundation termed a ''fairly high'' overall level of tolerance, comparable to the levels the survey recorded for comparison purposes in New York City, northern New Jersey and the northern suburbs in New York and Connecticut. But the foundation noted that from 25 to 30 percent of Long Island residents said they did not accept gays, Muslims or immigrants.
 ''Greater tolerance is needed to improve the region's attractiveness to the creative and skilled workers it requires,'' the report said.The foundation's report acknowledged the work of Richard Florida, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh who equates the economic success of cities with their ability to attract and hold a creative class, with gays as one index of its presence. His creativity ranking of large cities put San Francisco, Austin and San Diego at the top and Memphis, Norfolk, Las Vegas and Buffalo at the bottom.
 Ms. Gallagher said that in a Long Island context Huntington and Long Beach might finish high on such a list.
 Ms. Gallagher said making a place for the creative class that would drive a changed economy was crucial. ''The American dream of having your house with the white picket fence and the dog, that was 50 years ago, or 40 or 30 years ago,'' she said. ''Then you start seeing this shift with the country changing and the way the economy works changing. Now, in order to make suburbia a vibrant community, we need that creative talent.'' 
 Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, said the problems besetting Buffalo were more likely to stem from bad weather and years of decline, not the purported absence of a creative class.
 Dr. Koppelman agreed that Long Island had become a harder place to live for many in the middle- and lower-middle-income levels. ''It's a struggle and you have little cause for optimism,'' he said. But he said that Long Island's allure was not at issue. 
 ''The problem with Long Island is not the attractiveness,'' he said. ''Long Island is extremely attractive. The problem is that young people who want to come here can't afford to come here. There is no housing for them.''
 On Long Island, he said, home ownership still reigned and would remain the supreme goal of most residents. ''People rail against suburbia and urban sprawl,'' Dr. Koppelman said, ''but the evidence I have seen is that home ownership is precisely the American dream. Everyone wants their own home on their own ground and to be the captain of their own ship.'' 
 But the survey found growing acceptance for new, more affordable housing that would depart from the single-family-house suburban model on which Long Island was built. It also uncovered surprisingly strong sentiment for living in or near revitalized and rediscovered downtown areas. According to the survey, 60 percent of current residents would be interested in living within walking distance of downtowns of their towns and villages.
 Mr. Charney said more diverse housing, particularly in downtown areas with public transportation, would attract upwardly mobile younger residents.
 The survey found that large numbers of what it described as talented New York City residents, most of whom were nonwhite, single and female, would consider moving to the suburbs. ''These new people interested in moving to the Island might fit in quite well with that new pattern of development,'' Mr. Charney said.
 These would-be residents, Mr. Charney said, had the same aspirations for a better life that drew earlier waves from the city. ''If you look at the kind of people who want to move to Long Island, they are very much like the people who always have, but they have skin that is a few shades darker,'' he said. ''The people in Brooklyn and Queens who want to move up and out are a little different in ethnic background and marital status, but in their ability to contribute they are not so different.''
 If owning a home on Long Island is an increasingly expensive step up, anecdotal information from real estate professionals in community after community show its pull is strongest for those who grew up on the Island and left, and now are ready to scrape and sacrifice to move back. 
 The Rauch poll found that more than a third of all Long Island residents said they had considered moving, with the Southeast the most popular destination. But an analysis by the regional planning board found that from 1995 to 2000, among those who relocated, 51 percent from Nassau and 32 percent from Suffolk moved within New York.
 The planning board figures also showed that 83 percent of those who moved to Nassau during the same period came from within the state. Of these, 66 percent came from New York City, including 43 percent from Queens. In Suffolk, 75 percent came from elsewhere in the state, including 35 percent from New York City and 34 percent from Nassau.
 The Rauch survey found that among current residents, 79 percent found Long Island appealing and 19 percent unappealing. Beaches, open space and parks were ranked as adding the most to the Island's appeal, while property taxes were the most unappealing part of living there. 
 Dr. Koppelman said that wide economic disparities had always existed on Long Island, but had never been greater in the 50 years since the Island developed as a suburb.
 He said the division was especially stark among the elderly, who were divided between those who could afford senior-living complexes and those who could not. In the latter group, he said, those owning homes had little choice but to sell and move to less expensive areas. Those without homes faced even grimmer choices, he said. 
 ''People who make decisions, the leaders and not just the politicians, need to be open to the idea that the suburbs have to be reinvented,'' Ms. Gallagher said. ''Otherwise they are going to shrink and die.''
 ''In the 70's there was the death of the cities,'' she continued. ''Now we may see the death of the suburbs. They will become a place for only the very wealthy and the very poor unless we take measures to make sure that doesn't happen.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Gary Zamchick)(pgs. 1, 4)Chart/Map: ''The Long Island Attitude''County and number surveyedNORTHERN SUBURBS, 400Orange, Rockland Westchester and Fairfield, Conn.NEW JERSEY, 300Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris, Ocean, Passaic, Sommerset, Sussex, Union and WarrenNEW YORK CITY, 600NASSAU AND SUFFOLK, 1,200Do you think your county is headed in the right direction?NYC -- 48%Long Island -- 46New Jersey -- 44N. suburbs -- 34Have you considered moving out of the area you live in? If so, why?Long IslandYES: 38%COST OF LIVING: 47%HOUSING COSTS: 25%JOBS: 15%TAXES: 29%N. suburbsYES: 33COST OF LIVING: 43HOUSING COSTS: 26JOBS: 22TAXES: 13New JerseyYES: 31COST OF LIVING: 36HOUSING COSTS: 13JOBS: 22TAXES: 22New York CityYES: 28COST OF LIVING: 29HOUSING COSTS: 16JOBS: 19TAXES: 20Why is living on Long Island appealing? Why is it not?Percentage of Long Island respondents mentioning these themesAPPEALING, 947 RESPONDENTSParks, beaches, etc. -- 37%Close to relatives -- 22Strong communities -- 21Residents friendly, pleasant -- 20Schools -- 12NOT APPEALING, 228 RESPONDENTSProperty taxes -- 24%Jobs -- 17Housing -- 16Traffic/long commutes -- 14Sprawl, over-development -- 13Other taxes -- 13Is your neighborhood racially mixed, or mostly of one racial or ethnic group?Long IslandRACIALLY MIXED -- 53%MOSTLY ONE RACE OR ETHNIC GROUP -- 44DO NOT KNOW -- 3Northern suburbsRACIALLY MIXED -- 79MOSTLY ONE RACE OR ETHNIC GROUP -- 20DO NOT KNOW -- 1New JerseyRACIALLY MIXED -- 53MOSTLY ONE RACE OR ETHNIC GROUP -- 47DO NOT KNOW -- 1New York CityRACIALLY MIXED -- 56MOSTLY ONE RACE OR ETHNIC GROUP -- 39DO NOT KNOW -- 5(Source by Rauch Foundation)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); COUNTIES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



248 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Indians and State Near Cigarette Pact

BYLINE: By MARY REINHOLZ

 BODY:
DEATH and taxes are said to be inevitable, but Native American entrepreneurs have kept the latter at bay for years, thwarting efforts by New York governors and state agencies to collect taxes on tobacco and motor fuel sold to non-Indian customers looking for bargains on sovereign Indian land. 
 The low prices charged by Indian smoke shops have long angered nearby convenience store operators, who say Indian merchants have an unfair advantage. Heeding those complaints, the State Legislature mandated last year that taxes be collected on tobacco sold to non-Indians visiting reservation shops. 
 Tribal leaders denounced the infringement of their sovereignty and suggested the possibility of violent resistance to tax-collection efforts. In February a state Department of Taxation and Finance program to begin collecting the taxes was suspended indefinitely. 
 But the standoff could be changing. Tribal leaders at Long Island's two Indian reservations are not relenting on their refusal to accept a tax, but say they have met with state officials in Albany to discuss raising prices on tobacco. These leaders say they are open to a negotiated deal.
 ''We know that this issue is ongoing and it's never going to disappear,'' said Harry Wallace, who was re-elected last week chief of the Unkechaug nation at the Poospatuck reservation in Mastic and is owner of the Poospatuck Smoke Shop and Trading Post. ''So we will try to come to some rational solution where we don't compromise our sovereignty.'' He said he expected several more meetings on the issue. 
 Mr. Wallace described a December meeting with representatives from Governor Pataki's office and the Department of Taxation and Finance as a ''good first meeting'' in which the officials were ''looking for a certain minimum price and looking at proposals from other nations. We're close to that figure.'' 
 Several upstate tribes, he said, had offered to charge $39 or $40 per carton of tax-free cigarettes, noting that a premium-brand carton is sold by non-Indian vendors in Suffolk County for about $48, plus tax. Mr. Wallace said he charged $37 to $40 per premium carton at his shop, so a similar deal would be no problem for him. 
 But he noted: ''We're not going to price ourselves out of business,'' adding that any extra money would go not to the state, but to the tribe in the form of an increase in the licensing fee the tribe charges the four smoke shop operators on the reservation.
 Lance Gumbs, the new chairman of the Shinnecock nation's board of trustees and owner of the Shinnecock Indian Outpost on the reservation along Montauk Highway, said he was looking at a price increase that would keep his tobacco prices below the convenience stores'. ''This is not a reconciliatory gesture,'' he said. ''And it's not a price parity -- that would be economic suicide if we were the same price as the outside.'' 
 Governor Pataki has made no secret of his preference for parity agreements, and his representatives are trying to negotiate them with the state's nine tribes. He called for a year's delay on collecting Indian sales taxes in his proposed 2004-5 budget ''to allow more time to negotiate with the tribes over parity agreements,'' said Todd Alhart, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki. 
 The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said parity agreements ''would be fine'' with him. ''They would take away the incentive to go to the reservations and the convenience stores wouldn't be hurt,'' he said. ''But they would have to be agreements that would work out for everyone.''
 Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, believes that parity agreements ''are all well and good, but the law says taxes should be collected,'' said John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno.
 Mr. McArdle said lost revenue from untaxed Indian sales had been estimated at close to $500 million a year, but Tom Bergin, a spokesman for the Taxation and Finance Department, said his agency had estimated that New York might be able to collect $40 million in taxes yearly from in-state sales of Indian tobacco and $25 million for gasoline. 
 James M. Calvin, president of the New York State Convenience Store Association and a veteran of a decade of unsuccessful court challenges to compel New York to collect taxes on Indian products sold to non-Indians, said his group was interested in ''a level playing field for all retailers of motor fuel and tobacco, and the best way to do that is for New York State to enforce the law that is already on the books.''
 He said that a tentative agreement worked out between Governor Pataki and the St. Regis Mohawk tribe, whose reservation hugs the Canadian border, would exempt Indian merchants making less than $2 million a year ''and that's not acceptable; we call that charity, not parity.'' 
 Mr. Calvin said there was a high degree of ''anger and frustration'' in his group over the ''refusal of the Tax Department to enforce the law.''
 Mr. Bergin said that Tax Commissioner Andrew Eristoff decided in February to delay indefinitely imposing new tax regulations in order to ''try and gather more information'' about their impact. 
 David Hawkes, who owns Canoe Place Mart, a gas station and convenience store two miles from the Shinnecock Reservation in Hampton Bays, said he had anticipated state officials trying to ''cancel and soft-shoe'' the legislature's directive to collect taxes on Indian tobacco sales, but added: ''I'm still optimistic. With the pressure of the state being in a deficit situation, you never know.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TOBACCO STORES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONVENIENCE STORES (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



249 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: In Russia, Class for the Masses

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
AS they peeled out of street clothes low-slung jeans, stiletto boots and Gucci handbags -- and slipped into satiny flowing dresses or pragmatic sportswear -- the models working the catwalks during Russian Fashion Week showed off collections that left behind the avant-garde, often downright odd designs that have long dominated Russian high fashion.
 Homegrown designers -- reflecting four years of economic growth, after a decade of stagnation in the 1990's -- are starting to create clothes that average Russians might not only covet but could actually hope to afford.
 For 70 years of Communism, Soviet-era designers worked in a vacuum, creating fantastical, often unwearable clothes. Now a new wave of designers is finally attempting to attract the masses, the same way Tommy Hilfiger or Zara does in the West. The Russians showed their wares for fall and winter 2004 over the 10 days of Russian Fashion Week, which ends today, on runways in a convention center at Tishinskaya Square and in a sculptor's studio. 
 ''We love color, let's just get that out there,'' said Tatyana Nedzvetskaya, the director of Quoll, one of the few nationwide retail chains that sell fashions made in Russia. It is one of the few clothing retailers that cater to the country's emerging middle class: suits fetch $30 to $40, while prices range from $15 to $20 for a blouse, and a skirt costs $20. 
 Mass production of clothing here is so difficult that few designers even attempt it, Ms. Nedzvetskaya noted, shouting above the music of the catwalk shows, which typically drew 200 or so spectators.
 Nearby, the designer Alexander Terekhov laced his leggy beauties into gold lame 60's stewardess dresses, hot pink and blue boxing-style bathrobe minidresses and satin hair bows. A few wore Lycra miniskirts emblazoned with the silver metallic numbers 005. (James Bond, eat your heart out.)
 The Russian fashion industry may still be in its infancy compared with those in New York, Paris and Milan. Local designers showed alongside small imported brands from Britain, such as Arkadius, and Heatherette from New York. But in the age of the Internet, international editions of fashion magazines and 24-hour music video channels, Russian followers of fashion have no problem keeping up with the West. On Moscow streets, trends and styles evolve with the same speed as elsewhere. 
 Among the best-dressed elite, the flaunting of Western luxury labels has receded a bit. Post-Soviet fashion was heavily logo-dominated after the collapse of Communism, the more obvious, the better.
 International labels still dominate the wardrobe of this city's jet set: Burberry opened a store here earlier this year, joining Gucci, Prada and Ermenegildo Zegna, among others. Many of the stores post sales that rival their flagships in Western cities.
 Increasingly, subtle is in. Discriminating and sophisticated young women are subtly mixing it up, layering labels with local designers and knockoffs. 
 The uniform for a Muscovite young thing is as transnational as in Tokyo or on the Lower East Side of Manhattan: distressed white leather boots, possibly fake, with three- to five-inch stiletto heels; Diesel jeans; red leather Gucci handbag; and a cellphone necklace. 
 Olga Elshkina, a 30-year-old psychologist, typifies Russian chic. Walking to a metro station on Wednesday, an unseasonably warm April afternoon, she wore only one label, a set of rose-paned wraparound Dior sunglasses. They offset a stunning red nubby-wool overcoat from a Moscow designer, plus red Italian fringe boots.
 ''I don't simply wear one designer,'' Ms. Elshkina said. ''It's just not the way I want to look.''
 Fatima Sucher, who is the wife of a banker and is also 30, said good taste meant not having to flaunt it. A few years ago, she used to see a woman at the gym who ''looked like Chanel threw up on her,'' Ms. Sucher said. ''She had the glasses, the running pants, everything plastered with a label. In fact, she looked like an anti-Chanel campaign.'' 
 Ms. Sucher said she and many of her friends still preferred to shop for clothes abroad in New York or London, in part because the selection was broader and high-end brands tended to be slightly less expensive. 
 Avoiding counterfeit designer goods is also becoming a consumer nightmare. Yulia Vinogradova, who works in public relations at a finance firm, said she had returned goods to a chain of boutiques twice, ''once something Chloe and something else leather,'' she said, ''because it wasn't clear that it was real.'' 
 Russian designers are ecstatic that wealthy Muscovites are turning toward homegrown designers to mix with their global luxury labels. It means that the fashion business, so new here, can put down deeper roots. 
 Ms. Nedzvetskaya's Quoll chain grew from an underground business she started in 1988. Now its designers churn out two collections a season: classic fashions such as suits for older women, and a casual line of turtlenecks, jeans and denim suits called LO, for younger women.
 Other ready-to-wear labels that attracted attention during Fashion Week included Maks Bohemia, designed by a team who worked as stylists for Russian MTV; Katia Mossina, who presented classic day suits; and Alyena Akhmadullina, who combined traditional Slavic motifs such as jacket clasps and sultanate pants with avant-garde designs.
 Fashionistas recall that it was Alexander Arngoldt's show six months ago for spring 2004 that truly kicked Russian fashion into high gear.
 His signature-look twinned pink-and-black satin hot pants and a white fur stole. His ''Bond girl'' model fired a real gun down the runway. This year, his satiny dresses evoked luxury and classic evening gowns. 
 Mr. Arngoldt agreed that art trumped commerce for years here, and to some Russian designers it always will. ''Russian fashion, historically it was not a business,'' said Mr. Arngoldt, a native of St. Petersburg. ''Here people simply loved design, period.'' 
 Strangely, for a country long roiled by politics, fashion has largely part avoided current political, social and cultural topics such as the bombing of Moscow's subway, skinhead attacks or Russia's slouch toward Singapore's so-called managed democracy. 
 The one exception is Denis Simachev, whose men's collection for this spring recalls ''lyrical remembrances of the 80's, the last decade of the faded-away U.S.S.R.,'' according to the designer's Web site. Two years ago, he caused a stir with $200 T-shirts carrying the face of President Vladimir V. Putin. For next fall, he showed long-sleeved T-shirts with Cheburaskha, a beloved childhood cartoon character of the Soviet 60's, and now a favorite of Japanese girls. 
 Russian men's fashion has also matured toward subtlety. Gone are the days of wine-colored blazers, gun straps and uncomfortable bulges of weaponry. The suit is the thing -- preferably trim-fitted, two- or three-button, plus extra-pointy black leather loafers, ideally Italian. 
 At Syr and Market, trendy and expensive restaurants on Moscow's Ring Road, the lunch and dinner crowd of businessmen is most often clad in Armani and Hugo Boss blue or gray woolen pinstripe suits, with a rare herringbone tweed among them, sans tie. 
 Among this set, Mr. Putin is an influential fashion leader. He has popularized the wearing of trendy black turtlenecks under a jacket, which was also an office-casual staple of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the oil billionaire in jail awaiting trial for alleged crimes during the 90's privatization. 
 On the night of his re-election last month, Mr. Putin paired a turtleneck with a black suit, a vaguely menacing ex-K.G.B. look. Of late, Mr. Khodorkovsky has been spotted at court hearings wearing a blue fleece sweatshirt and jeans.
 As for business figures not in jail, the dressier suit is the new uniform of mini-oligarchs. But the accessories haven't changed. As before, they consist of an S.U.V., either Mercedes-Benz, Land Rover or Porsche, with driver, two or more bodyguards in leather jackets or camouflage and a very, very beautiful girl.


GRAPHIC: Photos: UP TO SPEED -- Visitors to Stoleshnikov Pereulok, a fashionable Moscow street. Right, a design by Alexander Terekhov. (Photographs by Yola Monakhov/Panos Pictures, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
HOMEGROWN -- Top, a Katia Mossina skirt
left center, an Alexander Arngoldt outfit
above, Olga Elshkina, and, left, Marianna Yaparova and (right) Toma Tomashvili, all fashion enthusiasts. (Photographs by Yola Monakhov/Panos Pictures, for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (92%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); APPAREL MFG (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); MUSIC (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (86%); ERMENEGILDO ZEGNA HOLDITALIA SPA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (86%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



250 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4; IN PERSON

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Developer With Eye To Profits For Society

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: KATONAH 

 BODY:
THERE are some clues about the developer, Jonathan F.P. Rose, that can be found in the bathroom of his office here. The reusable -- not disposable -- towels are monogrammed AHDC, for Affordable Housing Development Corporation. The Seventh Generation brand toilet paper is made from recycled paper, gently bleached. 
 And there is a 50-bottle pack of Advil (less packaging when you buy bulk) to deal with the headaches that can come from working as an environmentally sensitive developer who has chosen this mission: ''To repair the fabric of communities.''
 Mr. Rose, 51, is the son of the late Frederick P. Rose, the New York City developer who gave away more than $95 million and served on the boards of 35 organizations. And he is the grandson of Samuel B. Rose, who founded the family real estate development business. Mr. Rose has combined his family's talents for building and charity work in Jonathan Rose Companies L.L.C. 
 The company manages and develops projects for itself and for other businesses. It also plans developments and acquires properties. 
 In practice, that makes for a variety of projects, including Ashbourne Hall in Pleasantville, which provides affordable housing for the elderly half a block from the main street and the train station. His Rose Companies co-developed the Maitri Center and Issan House, a housing and healing center for people with AIDS, at the former Blessed Sacrament Monastery in Yonkers. Mr. Rose worked on that project with the Greyston Foundation, which provides jobs, housing, social services and health care to low-income residents. He is a member of its board of directors.
 His projects are not limited to Westchester: currently he is working with the actor Robert Redford on an environmental and cultural master plan to create a community around the village of Sundance, Utah, while preserving six thousand acres of land Mr. Redford owns.
 Mr. Rose favors developing or owning projects in the center of towns served by public transportation, noting that maintaining a car can cost an average of $6,500 a year, a budget breaker for a someone with a low income.
 Recently, Mr. Rose was in the running to develop the Alexander Street project, along the Hudson in Yonkers, but the city chose K. Hovnanian Inc. instead. 
 ''The Alexander Street site, with access to two train stations and the waterfront, is a very fine asset, and I'm glad somebody will be redeveloping it, even if it isn't us,'' Mr. Rose said.
 The only disadvantage to the kind of work he chooses to do, Mr. Rose said, is the slower speed at which it is completed. ''If I developed the same thing over and over, it would be easier and quicker, but we're doing custom designing, because of our need to find social solutions,'' he said. ''I may take seven years to handcraft a project, while someone else could've done three projects.''
 A fellow developer, Douglas Durst, president of the Durst Organization, particularly admires the Rose Companies' Highlands' Garden Village project in Denver, a mixed-use development including affordable housing for families and the elderly, built on the site of an old amusement park.
 ''It's extremely forward thinking, and an extremely successful project,'' Mr. Durst said.
 In Westchester, Mr. Durst's favorite Rose venture is the Burnham Building in Irvington, in which the Rose Companies worked with the county, state and federal governments to upgrade the village library while providing affordable, environmentally sensitive housing, all in the building, across the street from the train station.
 ''They just excel at creating a synergy in these very complex projects, with government and private developers, to create very economically profitable, and also socially profitable, projects,'' said Mr. Durst, noting that the projects Mr. Rose takes on run a higher risk of not panning out. 
 ''I can guarantee that for every one that does, there are two that have taken a tremendous effort and not come to fruition,'' Mr. Durst said.
 Daniel Tishman, the chairman and chief executive of Tishman Realty and Construction Corporation, said Mr. Rose has gained a great deal of respect by forming successful relationships with corporations, local municipalities, and the ultimate owners of the properties he develops. 
 ''There are not a lot of developers I'm aware of who can develop as successfully in New York City, Tarrytown, Denver, Aspen and Southern California,'' Mr. Tishman said. ''It's really a credit to his track record, that allows him to go to a whole multitude of urban areas and become accepted as easily as he is.
 ''Communities, especially in the areas where he likes to work, like to have things that are scalable, unique, fit into the environment and fit into their community environment very well,'' Mr. Tishman said.
 Mr. Rose describes himself as both Jewish and Buddhist, and both of those beliefs have informed his work. In 2002 he and his wife, Diana Calthorpe Rose, formed the Garrison Institute at a former Capuchin monastery in Garrison, ''to connect the wisdom of the contemplative traditions with social and environmental action,'' Mr. Rose said. Ms. Rose is the president of the institute. 
 ''All of this work is something we share together, a rich part of our family life,'' said Mr. Rose, who has a stepdaughter, Ariel, 31, and a daughter, Rachel, 17.
 From an early age, Mr. Rose said, he has been interested in spirituality. ''I think Buddhism has really advanced the science of the mind, and Judaism has advanced the process of generosity,'' he said. ''All of this work is an expression of the holistic mission of my life, to make the world a better place, by healing communities, protecting the environment and enriching the lives of the less fortunate and recognizing the incredible wisdom of the world's faith traditions. What's really interesting is when you can start linking them together.''
 Mr. Rose was born in New Rochelle and grew up in Scarsdale, near Butler Woods, a land preserve to which he traces his deep love of the environment and of nature. At Yale, he was the co-chairman of the Yale Environmental Action Program, and he later received a master's degree in planning from the University of Pennsylvania.
 ''As a small child I always had a vision of creating environmentally and socially responsible communities,'' Mr. Rose said. ''I was fortunate to be in a family where I could learn the best practices of development.''
 When he joined the family business, his father directed him toward pro bono projects, including working for the Educational Alliance, a settlement house, based in New York City. In 1987, facing a recession and few opportunities for developing for-profit real estate, Mr. Rose started his own business.
 He and his partners are working on current and future projects like creating an environmentally sensitive academic building for the Cooper Union in Manhattan, working on plans for the Jazz Museum of Harlem and transforming the Seventh Regiment Armory at Park Avenue and 67th Street into space for performing arts, a military museum and an upgraded homeless shelter. (''Talk about mixed use,'' Mr. Rose said.)
 He is also working on a housing project and a youth center for people with low and moderate incomes with Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement Inc., and two proposed housing projects for the low-income elderly in town centers in Westchester. In addition, the Mid-Bronx Senior Citizens Council has asked his companies to provide plans for the Andrew Freedman home on the Grand Concourse.
 Mr. Rose has lived in North Salem for 18 years, where, until recently, he served on the planning board.
 Roland A. Baroni, who is the lawyer for the Town of North Salem, said, ''He was a very active and vocal member of the planning board, and very much in favor of green space and riding trails and keeping as much open space in North Salem.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan F.P. Rose has taken on a wide range of urban development projects. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (77%); CHARITIES (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (72%); TRAINS (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



251 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; WORTH NOTING

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: The Rising Price of Milk? Around Here, Little Fretting

BYLINE: By GEORGINA GUSTIN

 BODY:
Milk prices around the country have been going up over the last several months, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, but consumers in Connecticut will not likely see a substantial increase.
 That is because for the first time in two years, Connecticut dairy farmers are finally breaking even. 
 For the last two years, they have been getting paid less for milk than it costs them to produce it, leading many farmers throughout the Northeast and Midwest to go out of business. Connecticut, for example, has lost more than 20 dairy farms since the beginning of last year and now has 181 operating farms, down from 663 in 1980.
 The production loss, coupled with a ban on importing dairy cows from Canada because of concerns about mad cow disease, had driven up the demand for milk, leading to higher, federally set minimum prices paid to the farmer. 
 The increase in prices paid to farmers is also driving up retail costs, though only slightly, probably because retailer profit margins are already high - as high as $1 a gallon. Last summer, the retail price a gallon of being sold in Hartford was as low as $2.99. Today that price is up around $3.08.
 Agricultural economists, dairy farmers and lawmakers in Connecticut have long bemoaned the high margins charged by milk retailers to consumers, leading to accusations of price gouging.
 ''The retailer is still taking too much for in-store costs,'' said Ronald W. Cotterill, director of the Food Marketing Policy Center at the University of Connecticut, an advocate of the legislation. ''The dairy farmers have suffered horrendously in the past, and we can help them. But we don't want to do it on the backs of the consumer.'' GEORGINA GUSTIN


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by C.M. Glover)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILK (93%); FOOD PRICES (91%); DAIRY FARMING (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



252 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Club Supports Conservative Races

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 9 

 BODY:
No one is more thrilled with the Republican Club for Growth than Arlene Wohlgemuth, who is seeking to oust Chet Edwards, a six-term Democratic congressman in a Texas district that includes President Bush's Crawford ranch.
 More than $337,000 in donations have already come into Ms. Wohlgemuth's campaign from all over the country, thanks to the Club for Growth, a conservative group that has solicited its 16,000 members on behalf of Ms. Wohlgemuth. And the club has already spent $75,000 on television advertisements praising Ms. Wohlgemuth as one of the most conservative politicians in Texas, well to the right of her two Republican primary rivals and, of course, Mr. Edwards. 
 None of this financial largess was sought by Ms. Wohlgemuth. It fell into her lap without her having to lift a finger and has already helped her dispatch one of her Republican primary rivals.
 ''We're getting checks from Florida, Michigan, Ohio and other places,'' said Todd Smith, a campaign spokesman, who said that one-third of all Ms. Wohlgemuth's recent donations have come from outside the district. ''That's the great thing. It's been very, very beneficial.''
 One of the controversial 527 committees -- so called for the section of the tax code that created them -- Club for Growth is this election year's new twist on the old practice of getting large amounts of soft money into campaigns by skirting federal election rules. So far, most of the attention has been on 527 committees set up by Democrats, especially several supported by George Soros, the billionaire businessman. But, as a voice for the right, Club for Growth rivals its liberal counterparts both in size and in the passion of its cause.
 At the moment, like Santa Claus at Christmas, the club has been making a list of those candidates it considers to be naughty and nice -- nice are conservative, antitax, anti-big-government candidates and naughty are those who veer from this line. 
 Moreover, to the consternation of mainstream Republicans, the club is not shy about pouring millions into primary races and attacking moderate Republicans with the same ferocity it reserves for Democrats in general elections. Ms. Wohlgemuth is one of about a half-dozen conservatives the club is supporting. Perhaps the best known is Representative Patrick J. Toomey, the Republican conservative who is challenging a Republican incumbent, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.
 ''Our donors are very ideologically driven, more than party driven,'' said Stephen Moore, who co-founded the organization in Washington in 1999. ''They are antitax and they feel the Republican Party has dropped the ball.''
 Special disdain goes to Republicans whom club members call ''RINO's'' or ''Republicans in Name Only.'' That list features 21 Republican members of Congress who the club feels have gone soft on economic issues.
 ''We have no loyalty to the Republican Party,'' David Keating, the club's executive director, said in an interview. ''We're willing to get involved with candidates that no one else would touch with a 10-foot pole.''
 The group's donors include some of the conservative movement's biggest names: Richard Mellon Scaife, the House majority leader Tom DeLay and the columnist Brent Bozell, as well as businessmen like the pharmaceutical executive Dan Searle, the cosmetics executive Ronald H. Lauder and the financiers Charles Schwab and Richard Gilder. The conservative economists Arthur Laffer and Lawrence Kudlow advise on policy.
 In the 2002 election, Mr. Moore said his group dispersed $8 million. He claims to have triumphed in 17 of 19 races.
 This year, the club has raised $4.6 million toward its goal of $10 million, Mr. Moore said, to be used mainly for television advertisements. In addition, the club has a political action committee that has raised $817,000, and its members have sent checks to the club totally $2.1 million to be passed on to the club's favored candidates in the form of bundled direct donations.
 While conservatives within the Republican Party might be thrilled by the club's political involvement, some moderate Republicans are outraged.
 ''I'm adamantly opposed to their activities,'' said Sarah Chamberlain Resnick, executive director of the Republican Main Street Partnership, a 527 committee that supports moderate Republican candidates. ''Why are they splitting the Republican Party? They've got a funny name for a group that is trying to shrink the Republican Party.''
 The Republican Main Street Partnership is pouring money into Republican primaries to defend moderates against the club -- money it says it would have preferred to use to attack Democrats. In this intra-party combat, no group exemplifies establishment Republicans more than the Main Street Partnership. So far it has raised $1.2 million in soft dollars and $200,000 in a political action committee.
 ''Now we have to go in and defend Arlen Specter,'' said Ms. Resnick, whose group has been running pro-Specter advertisements, ''and that is money we would have put in other races.''
 In Pennsylvania, the club has already spent over $1 million in television advertisements attacking Mr. Specter -- saying his voting record was as liberal as that of Senator John Kerry -- and has sent $800,000 in bundled donations from its members to Mr. Toomey's campaign. In response, the Specter campaign filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, asserting that the club illegally coordinated campaign expenditures with the Toomey campaign, an accusation the club denies.
 ''Frankly, we don't know where this money is coming from,'' said William Reynolds, a spokesman for Mr. Specter. ''We do know it is coming from out of state. These are individuals who are bucking the whole party apparatus.''
 The club may be bucking the party, but it claims to be winning, both at the ballot box and in pushing the party to the right. For instance, Mr. Moore asserts that without the club's pressure on wavering Republicans, President Bush's tax cut plan in 2003 would not have passed Congress. 
 Feeling the sting were two Republican senators, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and George V. Voinovich of Ohio. The club called them ''Franco-Republicans'' and ran advertisements in their home states questioning their patriotism. Both senators initially said they were concerned about the impact of the tax cuts on the growing federal deficit. But, after the attack, Senator Voinovich voted for the tax cut plan.
 ''We threatened to fund a primary opponent against Senator Voinovich,'' Mr. Moore said. ''I honestly believe that the tax cut would not have happened without the bad cop role of the club.''
 Mr. Keating, the club's executive director, said, ''Having the club's backing is the next best thing to having the president come out for a fund-raiser.'' Then, on reflection, he said the club was actually even better -- with a presidential fund-raiser, money is split between the party and the candidates and there is a lot of hassle in dealing with the Secret Service and setting up an event.
 ''For our candidates, they just have to open an envelope,'' Mr. Keating said. ''And $50,000 in checks will fall out.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arlene Wohlgemuth is a Republican candidate for the House. (Photo by Associated Press)Chart: ''Club for Growth's Candidates''The Republican Club for Growth provides support to conservative candidates through direct donations to candidates from its members and through issue advertisements run independent of the campaigns.The candidates they are supporting:SENATE RACESPatrick J. ToomeySEAT: PennsylvaniaAMOUNT: 1,748,365(TYPE OF SUPPORT):DONATIONSISSUE ADS AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESJack RyanSEAT: IllinoisAMOUNT: 56,640(TYPE OF SUPPORT):DONATIONSISSUE ADS AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESHerman CainSEAT: GeorgiaAMOUNT: )*(TYPE OF SUPPORT):DONATIONSISSUE ADS AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESHOUSE RACESArlene WohlgemuthSEAT: Texas 17thAMOUNT: $484,626(TYPE OF SUPPORT):DONATIONSISSUE ADS AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESJohn SwallowSEAT: Utah 3rdAMOUNT: 187,699(TYPE OF SUPPORT):DONATIONSLynn WestmorelandSEAT: Georgia 8thAMOUNT: 101,100(TYPE OF SUPPORT):DONATIONSTed PoeSEAT: Texas 2ndAMOUNT: 20,000(TYPE OF SUPPORT):ISSUE ADS AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES*Just received the Club for Growth's recommendation(Source by Club for Growth)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); ELECTION LAW (71%); CHRISTMAS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); TAX LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CHET EDWARDS (88%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); PAT TOOMEY (58%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



253 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4; THEATER

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Murderers' Row

BYLINE: By ZACHARY PINCUS-ROTH

 BODY:

John Hinckley
(1955-)
Intended victim: Ronald Reagan
Date: March 30, 1981
 A drifter and aspiring songwriter, Mr. Hinckley became obsessed with the actress Jodie Foster and the 1976 film ''Taxi Driver,'' in which she played a prostitute. Trying to impress her, he shot President Reagan outside the Washington Hilton. He was found not guilty by reason of insanity and has been confined to St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington. A judge recently ruled he could have unsupervised visits with his parents outside the hospital.
 An unhappy accountant who had been in and out of nursing school, the Women's Army Corps and five marriages, Ms. Moore became a radical leftist and, ultimately, an F.B.I. informant. In San Francisco, as President Ford walked from the St. Francis Hotel to his limousine, Ms. Moore fired a shot at him from across the street, but a bystander deflected the gun. Ms. Moore is serving a life sentence.

Quote from the show: ''I did it so I'd know where I was coming from.''

Actress: Becky Ann Baker

Giuseppe Zangara
(1900-1933)
Intended Victim: Franklin Delano Roosevelt
Date: Feb. 15, 1933
 Zangara came to the United States from Italy when he was 22 and worked as a bricklayer. During the Depression, he blamed the government not only for his poverty but also for his chronic stomach pain. After the president-elect gave a speech from his car in a Miami park, Zangara shot into the crowd, missing Roosevelt but killing the mayor of Chicago. He was sentenced to the electric chair.

Quote from the show: ''I did it 'cause the bosses made my belly burn.''

Actor: Jeffrey Kuhn

John Wilkes Booth
(1838-1865)
Victim: Abraham Lincoln
Date: April 14, 1865
 Booth was a respected stage actor (his brother Edwin Booth was a famous one) and an ardent supporter of the Confederacy. He shot the president during a performance of ''Our American Cousin'' at Ford's Theater in Washington, jumped from the box onto the stage -- breaking his leg -- and managed to escape. Lincoln died the next day. Two weeks later, soldiers found Booth in a Virginia barn, where he was killed either by a soldier's bullet or his own.

Quote from the show: ''Sic Semper Tyrannis!'' (''Thus always to tyrants'')

Actor: Michael Cerveris

Lee Harvey Oswald
(1939-1963)
Victim: John F. Kennedy
Date: Nov. 22, 1963
 A misfit who moved briefly to the Soviet Union and returned disillusioned, Oswald shot Kennedy from a window of the Texas School Book Depository in Dallas as the president's motorcade drove by. During his escape, he killed a policeman, but was arrested in a movie theater shortly after. Jack Ruby shot and killed Oswald on live television before he could be tried. Shrouded in mystery, Kennedy's killing remains the most widely debated presidential assassination.

Quote from the show: Booth (to Oswald): ''You're the big one.''

Actor: Neil Patrick Harris

Samuel Byck
(1930-1974)
Intended victim: Richard Nixon
Date: Feb. 22, 1974
 Byck was a lonely, unemployed tire salesman who blamed Nixon for his troubles. He protested outside the White House in a Santa Claus suit and sent taped messages to the likes of Leonard Bernstein and Jonas Salk describing ''Operation Pandora's Box'': his plan to hijack a plane and fly it into the White House. At Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Byck forced his way onto an Atlanta-bound flight. Police shot him from outside the plane; he then shot and killed himself.

Quote from the show: ''Nobody would listen!''

Actor: Mario Cantone

Lynette (Squeaky) Fromme
(1948-)
Intended Victim: Gerald Ford
Date: Sept. 5, 1975
 A member of the Manson ''family,'' Ms. Fromme wanted to be tried so the cult figure Charles Manson could take the stand and expound on his fringe religious views. Outside the California state capitol in Sacramento, she pointed a gun at President Ford, before the Secret Service wrestled it from her. She is serving a life sentence.

Quote from the show: ''Charlie will emerge as king of a new order, with me beside him as his queen.''

Actress: Mary Catherine Garrison

Charles Guiteau
(1841-1882)
Victim: James Garfield
Date: July 2, 1881
 A religious eccentric and would-be lawyer, he involved himself in Garfield's campaign but failed to get a diplomatic post. He also hoped to publicize his book of musings on religion, ''The Truth.'' He shot Garfield at the Baltimore and Potomac railroad station in Washington. The president died two and a half months later, after little more than six months in office. Guiteau was found guilty and hanged.

Quote from the show: ''I am to be reckoned with! I am the next ambassador to France!''

Actor: Denis O'Hare

Leon Czolgosz
(1873-1901)
Victim: William McKinley
Date: Sept. 6, 1901
 Czolgosz, the son of Eastern European immigrants, was a Midwestern factory worker who admired the anarchist Emma Goldman and considered McKinley an enemy of the working class. He shot McKinley in a receiving line at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo. McKinley died eight days later. Czolgosz died in the electric chair.

Quote from the show: ''It is wrong for one man to have so much service when other men have none.''

Actor: James Barbour
 ZACHARY PINCUS-ROTH


Quote from the show: ''With one brave, historic act I will win your love, now and for all eternity.''

Actor: Alexander Gemignani

Sara Jane Moore
(1930-)
Intended Victim: Gerald Ford
Date: Sept. 22, 1975

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cast of the Roundabout Theater Company's current revival of ''Assassins'' onstage at Studio 54, above, and the real-life assassins (and would-be assassins) they play, below, in the same order. (Photos by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times [above]
Associated Press [Hinckley, Zangara, Booth, Czolgosz]
United Press International [Moore, Byck, Fromme]
 Reuters [Oswald]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); INSANITY DEFENSE (76%); VERDICTS (76%); SENTENCING (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); ARMIES (71%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



254 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; Page Two

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Time to Pay Taxes, but Who Is Really Paying?

BYLINE: By Matthew Miller. 
Matthew Miller is a fellow at the Center for American Progress.

 BODY:
WITH April 15, comes the perennial debate over the fairness of the tax burden. Liberals say the rich pay too little; conservatives argue that the rich get soaked. 
Conservatives often cite these statistics: the top 5 percent of taxpayers pay 57 percent of federal income taxes, the top 1 percent 36 percent, and the bottom 80 percent a trifling 17 percent. 
 But this argument ignores the payroll tax, which finances Social Security, as well as excise taxes on things like liquor or tobacco. These take their biggest bite, proportionally, from lower-income Americans. Income tax will account this year for 42 percent of federal revenue; the payroll tax, 41 percent. If you count the payroll tax paid by employers (which economists generally agree comes out of workers' wages), four in five workers pay more in payroll taxes than income taxes. 
 The chart at right shows what happens when you consider this data: the top 1 percent of taxpayers earn 17 percent of the income and pay 23 percent of federal taxes; the top 5 percent earn 31 percent of the income and pay 40 percent of the taxes; the bottom 80 percent make 41 percent of the income and pay 31 percent of the taxes. In other words, the tax system is modestly progressive. Matthew Miller


GRAPHIC: Chart: Taxpayers: Top 1 percentPercent of total income earned: 17%Percent of total income tax paid: 36%Percent of total federal taxes paid: 23%Taxpayers: Top 5 percentPercent of total income earned: 31Percent of total income tax paid: 57Percent of total federal taxes paid: 40Taxpayers: Top 10 percentPercent of total income earned: 42Percent of total income tax paid: 68Percent of total federal taxes paid: 52Taxpayers: Top 20 percentPercent of total income earned: 59Percent of total income tax paid: 83Percent of total federal taxes paid: 69Taxpayers: Bottom 80 percentPercent of total income earned: 41Percent of total income tax paid: N/APercent of total federal taxes paid: 31(Source by Joint Committee on Taxation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); CONSERVATISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EXCISE TAX (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%) Taxation

PERSON: Matthew Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



255 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3; Commercial Property/Midtown

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: For Retailers, Times Square Has Its Glitter Back

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
TIMES SQUARE is back, big time, in terms of retail sales and rental rates, brokers and other real estate executives say.
 A recent deal by Fleet Bank to lease 5,200 square feet of ground-floor space in the building at 1515 Broadway, between 44th and 45th Streets, produced a rent of $515 a square foot annually, according to executives with knowledge of the deal. That puts Times Square space almost in the same league as the gold coasts of Manhattan retailing, Fifth and Madison Avenues in the 50's and Madison in the 60's.
 Executives say that a combination of renewed tourism, increased night life and the presence of thousands of office workers in the new towers that have been built in the last decade have created larger-than-expected retail demand. This is a far cry from the 1980's, when the area was most noted for X-rated entertainment, pinball parlors and phony-identification shops and when the sidewalks were infested with three-card monte players and other con artists. 
 ''This is an area that is alive seven days a week, 18 hours a day,'' said David A. Green, an executive vice president of CB Richard Ellis, a brokerage and services company. He said he had helped bring retail tenants to the two towers developed by Boston Properties: 5 Times Square, on the west side of Seventh Avenue between 42nd and 41st Streets, and Times Square Tower, across Seventh Avenue from 5 Times Square.
 He said some retailers had been lured to the area by the possibility of attracting publicity to their brand in background shots of ABC television and MTV, which both have broadcast studios in the area, and the New Year's Eve celebration, which the Times Square Alliance estimates is watched on television by 500 million people worldwide.
 But he said many had been very pleasantly surprised by the numbers of people who had eaten in their restaurants or shopped in their stores. ''The Red Lobster at 41st and Seventh is one of the top-grossing restaurants in the chain,'' Mr. Green said. A spokesman for Red Lobster, which is based in Orlando, Fla., said the location in Times Square was the busiest new restaurant in the organization. While declining to give sales figures for the Times Square store, the spokesman said the average Red Lobster has sales of $3.7 million annually.
 ''Times Square and Midtown have come back nicely'' from the economic downturn, said Faith H. Consolo, vice chairwoman of Garrick-Aug, a brokerage company specializing in retail space.
 But unlike the luxury corridor along Fifth and Madison Avenues where high-income people shop for expensive goods, she said, Times Square is a vibrant mix where it is practical to place a Godiva chocolate store next to one selling sneakers (Athlete's Foot). ''Times Square draws people and families of all ages and socioeconomic groups; you can put food and shoes next to each other,'' Ms. Consolo said. ''Nothing is wrong in Times Square.''
 Robert Selsam, a senior vice president of Boston Properties, said all the retail space at 5 Times Square had been leased, including a new location on 42nd Street east of Seventh Avenue for the Times Square Brewery restaurant, which was previously between Seventh and Broadway, where Times Square Tower now stands. ''We had to shut them down to build,'' he said.
 Marketing of the retail space in Times Square Tower is just getting under way, he said, since construction shielding is being removed. ''You could not see the space until last week,'' he said.
 Times Square Tower will have three levels of retail space: the ground floor and one level above and below. Although ground-floor space may be in the $500-a-square-foot range, lower rents for the less desirable second-floor and below-ground space results in a lowered average rent. ''Most of the deals I have seen have been in the $300-to-$350-a-square-foot range,'' Ms. Consolo said.
 Even so, retail rents are higher than for office space, particularly on a second floor or in a basement, and Mr. Selsam said he wanted multilevel restaurants and stores in the building. ''One could have the street and go up, another could have the street and go down,'' he said.
 Another hot retail property in the area, generally defined as the ''bow tie'' where Broadway and Seventh Avenue cross, is Quiksilver, which sells surfing-themed clothing and other items.
 Surfing in Times Square?
 ''It appeals to anyone who has been on a snowboard or skateboard as well,'' said John J. Gilbert, executive vice president of Rudin Management, which manages 3 Times Square at the northwest corner of Seventh Avenue and 42nd Street, where the store is. ''They are looking for a type of lifestyle.''
 And if the buttoned-down executives in the tower above are not interested in dressing like surfers, their children may be. ''There is a big teenage market there,'' said Benjamin Fox, a partner in Newmark New Spectrum, a retail-oriented brokerage company. He said the heavy pedestrian flows in Times Square (the alliance estimates 1.5 million people a day) and the store's prominent corner location drew customers. ''It is the old question of whether you want to pay expensive rent or buy expensive advertising, to get the brand name out,'' he said.
 Michael Hirschfeld, of the Urban Retail Real Estate Development Group of Westport, Conn., who represented Australia-based Quiksilver in talks for the location, said: ''Things are flying out the door. The store is close to doing 100 percent better than the first-year forecast.''
 He said the store had different product lines for boys and girls as well as adult men and women. ''It fits the kind of people who go to Times Square,'' he said. ''The whole family can shop there.''
 Times Square was always a desirable retail location because of its position at the hub of transportation, Mr. Fox said, until it started to seriously deteriorate in the late 1970's. Even afterward, he said, ''there was a sizable office population in the area in dire need of retail services.''
 He said that when he helped place a Gap store at the southeast corner of Broadway and 42nd in 1993 -- before the area's redevelopment began -- sales were so brisk that the store expanded within months.
 Now, after a redevelopment program that demolished most of the old buildings in the area and replaced them with $3 billion to $4 billion in new construction, ground-floor rents of $500 a square foot demonstrate the location's appeal, Mr. Fox said.
 There is retail space available in the Times Square area, Mr. Green said, ''but most of it has a story.''
 A story, in real estate parlance, can mean a marketing difficulty because of the configuration of the space, its size or other problems. For example, the triangular building at One Times Square that most recently housed a Warner Brothers Studio store on its ground floor, now stands vacant except for the huge outdoor signs that provide most of its income.
 The signs block most of the windows on the upper floors, making them even more unsuitable for office tenants than the basic layout dictates.
 Nevertheless, Richard Hodos, president of Madison HGCD, a retail broker who represents the building, said he was talking to an apparel maker who was interested in renting the ground floor for a store if he could lease the upper floors to tenants who did not want windows, like operators of textile showrooms.
 But a landlord with a 3,000-square-foot space and no story should have little difficulty finding a tenant even if he is asking $500 a square foot, said Mr. Green, who added, ''The rents are sustainable because the business is there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Red Lobster at 41st Street and Seventh Avenue is the chain's busiest new restaurant, a spokesman said. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Renting and Leasing; Sales

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



256 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; Investing

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Creative Tinkering, To Minimize Risks

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
HIGH oil prices, weak job growth and worries about terrorism are just three problems that have weighed on the stock market in recent weeks. And as the country gears up for the presidential election, the remainder of 2004 may be far from smooth.
 While many money managers remain confident that the 1.6 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index last month was only a pause in a long ascent, the possibility remains that the economy's sluggish recovery will keep stock prices from rising before the elections in November -- and maybe even cause a further decline. But there are ways to prepare for that. 
 With the economy growing and interest rates near 40-year lows, many professional investors warn against making any wholesale shift in a portfolio. For now, they tell investors, keep 60 to 70 percent of your money in stocks and the rest in bonds and cash. As long as yields on 10-year government bonds remain near 4 percent, many strategists say, stocks are still a better bet than bonds, despite the recent turmoil in share prices. 
 ''If the rally pauses, where long yields are now, you're still better off in stocks,'' said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, who helps manage $120 billion.
 Although Mr. Paulsen and others caution individual investors against moving large amounts of money out of stocks and into bonds -- or another haven -- they do recommend tinkering with the types of bonds and stocks in their portfolios.
 Risk-averse investors may want to sell holdings in volatile sectors like technology and reinvest the money in more stable, dividend-paying companies like oil refiners, utilities and makers of basic materials.
 These companies tend to be larger-capitalization stocks, and many have strong balance sheets because of years of restructuring. In the event of a market slowdown, some strategists expect them to outpace small-cap stocks, which outperformed larger shares last year. 
 To find cheap, healthy companies, individual investors may need to rely more on actively managed funds than on funds that simply track benchmark stock indexes. Although the passively managed indexed funds are often cheaper, by their nature they do not outperform the market. As a result, in a market that is trading sideways or falling, investors may want to look for funds in which managers have done well by finding cheap stocks.
 ''Stock pickers aren't popular because they don't look like the market,'' said Daniel J. Fuss, vice chairman at Loomis Sayles & Company, which has $57 billion under management. ''But you don't want to look like the market at a time like this.''
 A handful of actively managed funds have distinguished themselves in the 12 months through March. Among ''blend'' funds -- those that include both growth and income stocks -- that invest in large companies, Neuberger Berman Focus rose 85.9 percent and Legg Mason Focus climbed 56.3 percent. Strong performers among large-growth funds, which often invest heavily in technology, include Reynolds Funds, which jumped 143.8 percent in the year through March, and the Fidelity Capital Appreciation fund, which rose 65.2 percent.
 For investors who recoil at the thought of paying high management fees to mutual fund companies, yet want the flexibility to make broad bets on the market, another option is exchange-traded funds. The selection of E.T.F.'s -- baskets of stocks that trade like individual shares -- has been expanding rapidly, making it easier for investors to bet on ever narrower slices of the market. These funds also allow investors to change quickly the allocations of stocks and bonds in their portfolios.
 ''This is a critical time for investors to evaluate what they have,'' said Brian S. Orol, the president of Strategic Financial Planning in Raleigh, N.C. ''It's really not a time to be on autopilot.'' Mr. Orol says he expects shares related to health care to continue rising, and he recommends the iShares Dow Jones U.S. Healthcare Sector Index fund and the iShares S.&P. Global Healthcare Sector Index fund, both E.T.F.'s. The Industrial Select Sector fund, an E.T.F. that invests in ''old economy'' manufacturers, is another way to track defensive sectors, he said.
 For their bonds, he said, people who want higher returns than those of money market funds might consider the iShares Lehman 7-10 Year Treasury Bond fund, an E.T.F. that tracks 7- to 10-year Treasuries, and iShares GS$ InvesTop Corporate Bond, for high-grade corporate bonds.
 E.T.F.'s, like stocks, require transaction fees, so Mr. Orol suggests investing at least $5,000 at a time. Many professional money managers also recommend keeping a significant portion of a portfolio -- maybe 10 to 20 percent -- in international equities. European stocks may well rise because companies, particularly in Germany and Britain, are bolstering productivity and profitability, experts said. American investors may also reap more profits if the dollar weakens further against the euro, as some analysts expect, increasing the relative value of European stock funds. 
 Asian stocks, too, may outperform American stocks in the coming months because China's economy is providing a healthy alternative to the United States for exporters in Japan, Taiwan, Singapore and elsewhere in the region. Still, the biggest caveat for investing in Asian markets other than Japan is that trading is relatively thin, and thus vulnerable to large price swings. ''There's a lot of room left in Asia, but you'll have to stomach a lot of volatility,'' Mr. Fuss said. 
 CHASING double-digit returns overseas is not for everyone. Some investors caution that any slowdown in the United States would hurt economies overseas, as it has in past economic cycles. But with interest rates so low, finding refuge in fixed-income markets is not so simple.
 Treasuries, most money managers agree, are costly, and government bond yields are low. Moreover, bondholders run the risk that the Federal Reserve will raise rates, which would push bond prices lower.
 Fannie Maes and Freddie Macs, bonds issued by government-sponsored agencies that typically yield about half a percentage point more than comparable Treasuries, are a good alternative, said Eugene Flood Jr., president and chief executive of Smith Breeden Associates in Chapel Hill, N.C.. 
 Regulators have scrutinized the corporate governance of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in recent months, and lawmakers may force changes on the agencies at some point. That aside, the main risk for investors is that the issuers will repay their bonds ahead of schedule, while interest rates are low.
 ''It's just the timing of the paybacks,'' Mr. Flood said.
 If the stock market slows further, some money managers suggest selling high-yield corporate bonds and putting the money into higher-rated corporate debt. The yields are lower, but the security is greater. 
 ''It's pretty much a toss-up between medium-grade corporate bonds and stocks,'' Mr. Fuss of Loomis & Sayles said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Paulsen, strategist at Wells Capital Management.Chart: ''Asset Juggling''Despite a recent dip in share prices, many analysts advise investors to keep about two-thirds of their portfolio in stocks, saying bonds are unlikely to offer better returns in the next six months.Graph tracks Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since 2003.Graph tracks yield on 10-year Treasuries since 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DIVIDENDS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



257 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4975 words

HEADLINE: What the World Needs Now Is DDT

BYLINE: By Tina Rosenberg. 
Tina Rosenberg writes editorial for The New York Times. Her last article for the magazine was about global corruption.

 BODY:
The year 2000 was a time of plague for the South African town of Ndumo, on the border of Mozambique. That March, while the world was focused on AIDS, more than 7,000 people came to the local health clinic with malaria. The South African Defense Force was called in, and soldiers set up tents outside the clinic to treat the sick. At the district hospital 30 miles away in Mosvold, the wards filled with patients suffering with the headache, weakness and fever of malaria -- 2,303 patients that month. ''I thought we were going to get buried in malaria,'' said Hervey Vaughan Williams, the hospital's medical manager. 
 Today, malaria has all but vanished in Ndumo. In March 2003, the clinic treated nine malaria cases; Mosvold Hospital, only three. 
 As malaria surges once again in Africa, victories are few. But South Africa is beating the disease with a simple remedy: spraying the inside walls of houses in affected regions once a year. Several insecticides can be used, but South Africa has chosen the most effective one. It lasts twice as long as the alternatives. It repels mosquitoes in addition to killing them, which delays the onset of pesticide-resistance. It costs a quarter as much as the next cheapest insecticide. It is DDT. 
 KwaZulu-Natal, the province of South Africa where Ndumo and Mosvold are located, sprayed with DDT until 1996, then stopped, in part under pressure from other nations, and switched to another insecticide. But mosquitoes proved to be resistant to the new insecticide, and malaria cases soared. Since DDT was brought back in 2000, malaria is once again under control. To South Africans, DDT is their best defense against a killer disease. 
 To Americans, DDT is simply a killer. Ask Americans over 40 to name the most dangerous chemical they know, and chances are that they will say DDT. Dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane was banned in the United States in 1972. The chemical was once sprayed in huge quantities over cities and fields of cotton and other crops. Its persistence in the ecosystem, where it builds up to kill birds and fish, has become a symbol of the dangers of playing God with nature, an icon of human arrogance. Countries throughout the world have signed a treaty promising to phase out its use. 
 Yet what really merits outrage about DDT today is not that South Africa still uses it, as do about five other countries for routine malaria control and about 10 more for emergencies. It is that dozens more do not. Malaria is a disease Westerners no longer have to think about. Independent malariologists believe it kills two million people a year, mainly children under 5 and 90 percent of them in Africa. Until it was overtaken by AIDS in 1999, it was Africa's leading killer. One in 20 African children dies of malaria, and many of those who survive are brain-damaged. Each year, 300 to 500 million people worldwide get malaria. During the rainy season in some parts of Africa, entire villages of people lie in bed, shivering with fever, too weak to stand or eat. Many spend a good part of the year incapacitated, which cripples African economies. A commission of the World Health Organization found that malaria alone shrinks the economy in countries where it is most endemic by 20 percent over 15 years. There is currently no vaccine. While travelers to malarial regions can take prophylactic medicines, these drugs are too toxic for long-term use for residents.
 Yet DDT, the very insecticide that eradicated malaria in developed nations, has been essentially deactivated as a malaria-control tool today. The paradox is that sprayed in tiny quantities inside houses -- the only way anyone proposes to use it today -- DDT is most likely not harmful to people or the environment. Certainly, the possible harm from DDT is vastly outweighed by its ability to save children's lives. 
No one concerned about the environmental damage of DDT set out to kill African children. But various factors, chiefly the persistence of DDT's toxic image in the West and the disproportionate weight that American decisions carry worldwide, have conspired to make it essentially unavailable to most malarial nations. With the exception of South Africa and a few others, African countries depend heavily on donors to pay for malaria control. But at the moment, there is only one country in the world getting donor money to finance the use of DDT: Eritrea, which gets money for its program from the World Bank with the understanding that it will look for alternatives. Major donors, including the United States Agency for International Development, or Usaid, have not financed any use of DDT, and global health institutions like W.H.O. and its malaria program, Roll Back Malaria, actively discourage countries from using it.
 Part of the reason for DDT's marginalization is that its delivery method, house spraying, doesn't work everywhere. Insecticide sprayed inside houses repels mosquitoes -- and kills those that do make it indoors and perch on walls -- for several months. Since most mosquitoes bite at night, when people are likely to be indoors, the spray reduces the number of times people are bitten. If around 80 percent of houses are covered, spraying protects everyone, as the bites that take place will be from mosquitoes less likely to have bitten an infected person. But house spraying is only effective against mosquitoes that bite indoors -- not all do. It also requires a government capable of organizing, training and equipping sprayers, which is beyond the reach of some countries. 
 Even when spraying is possible, though, developed nations don't want to pay for it. Instead, the malaria establishment in developed nations promotes the use of insecticide-treated nets that people can buy to hang over their beds. Treated bed nets are indeed a useful tool for controlling malaria. But they have significant limitations, and one reason malaria has surged is that they have essentially become the only tool promoted by Western donors. ''I cannot envision the possibility of rolling back malaria without the power of DDT,'' said Renato Gusm-o, who headed antimalaria programs at the Pan American Health Organization, or P.A.H.O., the branch of W.H.O. that covers the Americas. ''Impregnated bed nets are an auxiliary. In tropical Africa, if you don't use DDT, forget it.''
 The other reason DDT has fallen into disuse is wealthy countries' fear of a double standard. ''For us to be buying and using in another country something we don't allow in our own country raises the specter of preferential treatment,'' said E. Anne Peterson, the assistant administrator for global health at Usaid. ''We certainly have to think about 'What would the American people think and want?' and 'What would Africans think if we're going to do to them what we wouldn't do to our own people?''' 
 Given the malignant history of American companies employing dangerous drugs and pesticides overseas that they would not or could not use at home, it is understandable why Washington officials say it would be hypocritical to finance DDT in poor nations. But children sick with malaria might perceive a more deadly hypocrisy in our failure to do so: America and Europe used DDT irresponsibly to wipe out malaria. Once we discovered it was harming the ecosystem, we made even its safe use impossible for far poorer and sicker nations. 
Today, westerners with no memory of malaria often assume it has always been only a tropical disease. But malaria was once found as far north as Boston and Montreal. Oliver Cromwell died of malaria, and Shakespeare alludes to it (as ''ague'') in eight plays. Malaria no longer afflicts the United States, Canada and Northern Europe in part because of changes in living habits -- the shift to cities, better sanitation, window screens. But another major reason was DDT, sprayed from airplanes over American cities and towns while children played outside. 
 In Southern Europe, Latin America and Asia, DDT played an even more prominent role in controlling malaria. A malaria-eradication campaign with DDT began nearly worldwide in the 1950's. When it started, India was losing 800,000 people every year to malaria. By the late 1960's, deaths in India were approaching zero. In Sri Lanka, then called Ceylon, 2.8 million cases of malaria per year fell to 17. In 1970, the National Academy of Sciences wrote in a report that ''to only a few chemicals does man owe as great a debt as to DDT'' and credited the insecticide, perhaps with some exaggeration, with saving half a billion lives. 
 From the 1940's to the late 1960's, indoor house spraying with DDT was tested all over Africa. It was least effective in the lowland savannas of West Africa, but even partly successful programs provided considerable health improvements. And in other parts of Africa, DDT reduced the infant mortality rate by half and in some places wiped out malaria completely. 
 Still, DDT was falling out of favor even before the 1962 publication of ''Silent Spring,'' Rachel Carson's book that described the dumping of DDT and other pesticides on American towns and farms and detailed the destruction they caused. DDT had not been sold as a way to control malaria but to eradicate it, so the world would never have to think about malaria again. But eradication failed -- it is now considered biologically impossible -- and because DDT had not lived up to its billing, disillusion set in. At the same time, DDT's indiscriminate use was provoking the development of resistance among mosquitoes, and many countries were shifting to decentralized health systems, which meant they were no longer able to organize nationwide house spraying. 
 The move away from DDT in the 60's and 70's led to a resurgence of malaria in various countries -- Sri Lanka, Madagascar, Swaziland, South Africa and Belize, to cite a few; those countries that then returned to DDT saw their epidemics controlled. In Mexico in the 1980's, malaria cases rose and fell with the quantity of DDT sprayed. Donald Roberts, a professor at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., has argued that when Latin America stopped using DDT in the 1980's, malaria immediately rose, leading to more than a million extra cases a year. The one country that continued to beat malaria was Ecuador, the one country that kept using DDT. 
 In the few countries where it is used today, DDT is no longer sprayed from airplanes, and no country admits to using it as an insecticide for crops -- although there are probably cases where it is diverted for agricultural use. Its only legitimate use is inside houses. Roberts said that the quantities used for house spraying are so small that Guyana, to take one example, could protect every single citizen of its malarious zones with the same amount of DDT once used to spray 1,000 acres of cotton. ''The negative environmental effects of DDT use that led to its banning were due to massive, widespread agricultural use,'' says a fact sheet published by Usaid (no fan of the chemical). ''Spraying limited amounts of DDT inside houses is considered unlikely to have major negative environmental impact.'' 
 What about DDT's impact on the people inside the houses? The most serious evidence of DDT's harm to humans are a few studies showing that higher levels of DDE (the form DDT takes when it metabolizes) in a mother's blood is associated with premature birth and shorter duration of breast-feeding. But other studies have found no such associations. There was suspicion that DDT causes breast cancer, but study after study has found no connection. In general, DDT is feared for its effect on the environment, not on humans. It has been used on such a huge scale over the last 50 years that it is reasonable to think that if it had any serious effect on human health, we would know it by now.
Rereading ''Silent Spring,'' I was again impressed by the book's many virtues. It was serialized in The New Yorker in June 1962 and published in book form that September -- a time when Americans were living in the golden glow of postwar progress and science was revered. ''Silent Spring'' for the first time caused Americans to question the scientists and officials who had been assuring them that no harm would result from the rain of pesticides falling on their farms, parks and backyards. Carson detailed how DDT travels up the food chain in greater and greater concentrations, how robins died when they ate earthworms exposed to DDT, how DDT doomed eagle young to an early death, how salmon died because DDT had killed the stream insects they ate, how fiddler crabs collapsed in convulsions in tidal marshes sprayed with DDT. 
 ''Silent Spring'' changed the relationship many Americans had with their government and introduced the concept of ecology and the interconnectedness of systems into the national debate. Rachel Carson started the environmental movement. Few books have done more to change the world. 
 But this time around, I was also struck by something that did not occur to me when I first read the book in the early 1980's. In her 297 pages, Rachel Carson never mentioned the fact that by the time she was writing, DDT was responsible for saving tens of millions of lives, perhaps hundreds of millions. 
 DDT killed bald eagles because of its persistence in the environment. ''Silent Spring'' is now killing African children because of its persistence in the public mind. Public opinion is so firm on DDT that even officials who know it can be employed safely dare not recommend its use. ''The significant issue is whether or not it can be used even in ways that are probably not causing environmental, animal or human damage when there is a general feeling by the public and environmental community that this is a nasty product,'' said David Brandling-Bennett, the former deputy director of P.A.H.O. Anne Peterson, the Usaid official, explained that part of the reason her agency doesn't finance DDT is that doing so would require a battle for public opinion. ''You'd have to explain to everybody why this is really O.K. and safe every time you do it,'' she said -- so you go with the alternative that everyone is comfortable with. 
 ''Why it can't be dealt with rationally, as you'd deal with any other insecticide, I don't know,'' said Janet Hemingway, director of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. ''People get upset about DDT and merrily go and recommend an insecticide that is much more toxic.'' 
 Because the ban on DDT became the midwife to the environmental movement, the debate about it, even today, is bizarrely polarized. Most environmental groups don't object to DDT where it is used appropriately and is necessary to fight malaria. But liberals still tend to consider it a symbol of the Frankenstein effects of unbridled faith in technology. For conservatives, whose Web sites foam at the mouth about the hypocrisy of environmentalists, DDT continues to represent the victory of overzealous regulators and Luddites who misread and distort science. 
 So far, conservatives have not been able to budge Usaid, even though they have managed to remake the agency's overseas AIDS programs to promote abstinence and discredit condom use. But malaria is not part of the public debate as AIDS is, and DDT does not have the same cultural urgency for the religious right that abstinence does. 
 William Ruckelshaus, the head of the newly created Environmental Protection Agency, banned DDT in 1972. It remains one of the most controversial decisions the E.P.A. has ever taken. Ruckelshaus was under a storm of pressure to ban DDT. But Judge Edmund Sweeney, who ran the E.P.A.'s hearings on DDT, concluded that DDT was not hazardous to humans and could be used in ways that did not harm wildlife. Ruckelshaus banned it anyway, for all but emergencies. 
 Ruckelshaus made the right decision -- for the United States. At the time, DDT was mainly sprayed on crops, mostly cotton, a use far riskier than indoor house spraying. There was no malaria in the United States -- in part thanks to DDT -- so there were no public health benefits from its use. ''But if I were a decision maker in Sri Lanka, where the benefits from use outweigh the risks, I would decide differently,'' Ruckleshaus told me recently. ''It's not up to us to balance risks and benefits for other people. There's arrogance in the idea that everybody's going to do what we do. We're not making these decisions for the rest of the world, are we?''
In fact, we are -- the central reason that African nations who need DDT do not use it today. Washington is the major donor to W.H.O. and Roll Back Malaria, and most of the rest of the financing for those groups comes from Europe, where DDT is also banned. There is no law that says if America cannot use DDT then neither can Mozambique, but that's how it works. The ban in America and other wealthy countries has, first of all, turned poor nations' agricultural sectors against DDT for economic reasons. A shipment of Zimbabwean tobacco, for example, was blocked from entering the United States market because it contained traces of DDT, turning Zimbabwe's powerful tobacco farmers into an effective anti-DDT lobby. From a health point of view, of course, American outrage would have been more appropriate if traces of tobacco had been found in their DDT than the other way around. 
 Then there are chemical companies. ''I get asked all the time -- are you being paid by chemical companies?'' said Thomas DeGregori, a professor of economics at the University of Houston and an advocate for DDT. The question is amusing, because the corporate interests in this issue are actually on the other side. DDT is no longer on patent, and it is known to be made only in India and China -- and the price has soared since the rich-country ban put manufacturers out of business, making it harder for poor countries to buy. Janet Hemingway of the Liverpool School, who advises African governments, said that she and the officials she works with are often lobbied by chemical companies selling more expensive insecticides, telling her about DDT's evils. ''Clearly, they'd like to see DDT banned -- it cuts into their markets,'' she said. 
 But more important to DDT's demise has been pressure from the international malaria establishment. Sometimes it is direct. Mexico gave up DDT, for example, because the North American Free Trade Agreement obligated it to. Donald Roberts, who was working in Belize in the early 1990's, said that Usaid told the country to stop using DDT or it would lose foreign assistance. (Belize did, and malaria rates soared.) 
 In May 2001, 91 countries and the European Community signed a treaty in Stockholm on 12 persistent organic pollutants, the ''dirty dozen.'' It banned nine outright. For DDT, the treaty allowed its use in indoor spraying for public health purposes, but called for its gradual phase-out. DDT's exemption, which had been opposed by environmental groups but supported by malariologists, did allow countries dependent on DDT to continue to use it for the present. But Stockholm's guiding principle -- phase it out -- is one more factor that discourages donors from financing DDT. 
 Brian Sharp, who is leading South Africa's house-spraying program, said that some international research agencies will not finance studies in any way associated with DDT. Roll Back Malaria sees its mosquito-control strategy as promoting bed nets, period. Its 2003 Africa report hardly mentions house spraying. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria -- which uses guidelines set by W.H.O. -- currently finances no DDT. Vinand Nantulya, senior adviser to the fund's executive director, said that the fund might theoretically supply DDT to a country that requests it -- but none have. This is no surprise: these countries work closely with W.H.O. and advisers from Usaid to formulate their proposals to the Global Fund, and they are unlikely to ask for things that stand a low chance of approval. Many African scientists and health officials report being told by donors, ''You'll have trouble getting money for this'' or ''Donors believe this has unacceptable environmental effects.'' The balance of power is so tilted toward the donors in these relationships that poor countries will go quite far out of their way to not offend. DDT is controversial; better not to ask. 
 In 1999, the Pan American Health Organization recommended that Ecuador use DDT to control malaria in the wake of El Nino. The World Bank said no. In a document explaining its decision, the bank said, ''Because of the controversial issues surrounding DDT, the World Bank's malaria team discourages the habitual use of DDT for malaria control.'' Renato Gusm-o of P.A.H.O. said that the bank's environmental group told him it was fighting for the elimination of DDT and could not allow the bank to finance DDT while advocating a ban. 
 In many countries, decisions about DDT are made by environmental ministries, with little input from health officials. When Colombia banned DDT in the early 1990's, for example, ''people in public health found out when they read about it in the newspaper,'' Gusm-o said. Malaria cases more than doubled. The 1980's and 1990's also saw the rise of environmental units within the health institutions and donors like the World Bank. These watchdog units were much needed and in general have been a crucial tool to protect the environment. But they look at only the risks, not the benefits. Walter Vergara, the World Bank official who headed the unit that dismissed DDT in Ecuador, defended the decision to me: ''DDT has an awful impact on the biosystem and is being eliminated by the world community. There are alternatives. We're not the only species on the planet.''
 Said David Brandling-Bennett, the former deputy director: ''My experience at P.A.H.O. was that the malaria community eventually gave in to heavy pressure from environmental groups, including within the organization. There was a fairly heavy debate in P.A.H.O. a few years back about whether we should use DDT where it is effective. But the overwhelming perception of DDT as the nastiest kid on the block just made it very difficult to argue for continuing. Really, the malaria community retreated.'' 
When Lee Jong-Wook became head of W.H.O. last year, he wrote an article for The Lancet, the British medical journal, setting out his vision. Lee wrote about AIDS, about SARS, about strengthening public health systems. He did not mention malaria. 
 Probably the worst thing that ever happened to malaria in poor nations was its eradication in rich ones. That has made one of Africa's leading killers shockingly invisible. '''Silent Spring' had a clear message about things at home Americans could see and touch and feel,'' said Brooks B. Yeager, vice president of the Global Threats Program for the World Wildlife Fund. ''Americans who live on the Carolina coast know the brown pelicans have come back'' since DDT spraying was halted. ''Malaria is a long way away. You have to read about it or see in person its devastation, and not many Americans have the opportunity to do it.'' 
 Lawrence Barat, the World Bank's adviser on malaria control, said, ''When I tell people I work on malaria, sometimes I get, 'Gee, I didn't know it still existed.''' 
 One of the most depressing aspects of talking about malaria is that you get to hear the phrase ''the powerful AIDS lobby,'' a term no one but a malariologist would use. AIDS in the third world is still criminally underfinanced, but at least it gets some money and a lot of attention. Malaria gets AIDS's dregs. AIDS was a sudden plague, very visible in its choice of victims, and it has a vocal constituency in rich countries. Even in Africa, malaria gets nowhere near the attention of AIDS. It has always been around, and it kills not middle-class adults but rural 4-year-olds, who don't have much of a lobby. 
 Malaria's status can be read in the aid figures. By the 1990's, it was almost completely ignored, and Africa's malaria-control programs disintegrated. In some countries, the entire federal antimalaria program employed only two or three people. When developed nations got together to begin Roll Back Malaria in 1998, they pledged money to meet its goal of cutting the death toll from malaria in half by 2010, but have then proceeded to donate peanuts. In 2000, according to Amir Attaran, a Massachusetts-based fellow of the Royal Institute for International Affairs, the 23 richest countries in the world plus the World Bank together provided $100 million to fight malaria -- less than a tenth of the annual sum necessary to meet Roll Back Malaria's goals. 
 The AIDS epidemic has begun to excite a broader interest in third-world diseases, and malaria has benefited, especially from the establishment of the Global Fund, which has approved $499 million for malaria -- although it has only actually disbursed a tenth of that amount. Usaid, which in 1998 gave just $12 million to fight malaria, now gives $80 million a year, a notable advance. 
 But money is still very short. One illustration of donor stinginess is the fact that the world today employs malaria cures that don't work. As resistant strains of malaria have evolved, chloroquine, the most popular remedy, fails up to 80 percent of the time, and a newer treatment, Fansidar, is not much better and is getting worse. They are still in use because they are cheap; chloroquine costs only pennies per dose, a cost most African families can handle themselves. New, effective drugs are available, but they cost a minimum of 40 cents for a child's treatment and $1.50 for an adult's, which means that African governments -- and therefore donors -- will have to pay. Only a handful of Africa's 42 malaria-endemic countries have switched; one is South Africa, where the new drugs have been partly responsible for the country's recent success. Those prices may not seem like much to cure malaria, especially when contrasted with the hundreds of dollars a year for life needed to treat AIDS. But 40 cents a child is apparently too much for donors to provide. 
 The lack of political interest in malaria has been a very important factor in the decline of house spraying and rise of bed nets. Bed nets follow the fashion in development assistance today: bypass the government and work through private sector, nongovernmental groups and with the affected people themselves. People can buy nets in a store for $2 to $10, or their subsidized or even free distribution can be integrated into other health programs, like vaccination days. 
 Bed nets are an exciting and important form of mosquito control. But they have major drawbacks. Even a few dollars is still too much money. People surveyed in rural Africa about what they would like to buy listed a bed net as only the sixth product on their wish list. The first three were a bicycle, a radio and, most heartbreakingly, a plastic bucket. The price is also kept artificially high because most countries, shamefully, still tax bed nets. And until nets with long-lasting insecticide can be widely distributed, bed nets need regular retreatment. It is insecticide that protects, not the net, and the insecticide wears off without people knowing it. 
 Both bed nets and house spraying can be effective, and studies comparing costs differ on which is cheaper. For the world malaria establishment, however, one huge difference is that with house spraying, the central government -- and therefore donors -- bear the cost. Financing repeated rounds of spraying, donors argue, is not sustainable. ''But 'sustainable' is what you choose to sustain,'' Amir Attaran fumed. ''Nobody demands my garbage collection in Cambridge, Mass., be sustainable. The garbageman comes once a week, and it is accepted that society pays for that.'' 
 Mozambique is now doing house spraying successfully and cheaply without a national army of sprayers and a fleet of S.U.V.'s. Mozambique hires a few people in each community and gives them two weeks of training and the materials they need. Those sprayers then walk from house to house, spraying each one twice a year. ''It helps save on transport costs, and the fact that sprayers come from the community makes it a lot more credible in terms of people accepting what is done in their households,'' said Jotham Mthembu, KwaZulu-Natal's malaria control program manager, who also advises the program in neighboring Mozambique. Mozambique, because it depends on Western donors, uses a more expensive insecticide. But if it used DDT, it could protect people for $1.70 per person per year. 
 There are other ways to control mosquitoes. Parts of India, for example, are having success stocking mosquito-breeding ponds with guppies, who eat mosquito larvae. But India's ingenious strategy would not work in Africa, where mosquitoes breed in cattle hoofprints during the rainy season. 
 Malaria must be more than simply a line item in the health budget. Malaria kills tourism and foreign investment. It greatly reduces human intelligence and productivity and lessens agricultural yields. Against these costs, a nation's business sectors and economic ministries should willingly join the fight -- and donors must begin to think of malaria control as an unusually cost-effective antipoverty program. 
 South Africa's success is inspiring another look at DDT around the continent. Uganda, Kenya and other places are now examining whether it could work in their nations. If it could, donors should encourage it. DDT is a victim of its success, having so thoroughly eliminated malaria in wealthy nations that we forget why we once needed it. But malaria kills Africans today. Those worried about the arrogance of playing God should realize that we have forged an instrument of salvation, and we choose to hide it under our robes. 


CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 11 about DDT and its effectiveness in controlling malaria in developing countries misstated the position of an international health organization on it. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tubercu-losis and Malaria indeed plans to finance some DDT spraying, in Somalia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With equipment provided by Unicef, a 1960 DDT team prepared to go house to house in Masuleh, Iran. (Photograph by United Nations)
DDT was an insecticide of choice in the United States. Then, in 1962, came Rachel Carson's ''Silent Spring.'' (Photograph by Galen Rowell/Corbis)
A female mosquito, needing blood to nourish its eggs, sucks away with its proboscis. (Photograph by Richard T. Nowitz/Corbis)
A foreman recorded the latest spraying during a U.N.-sponsored operation in Liberia in 1954. (Photograph by United Nations)
This photograph of a Unicef spraying in Paraguay was exhibited at the 1964-65 World's Fair. (Photograph by Unicef)
A Medecins Sans Frontieres technician explained the mosquito's life cycle to Burundi villagers last year, then handed out bed nets.
 An assault on mosquitoes- without DDT -- in Burundi last year, sponsored by Medecins Sans Frontieres.Tina Rosenberg writes editorials for The New York Times. Her last article for the magazine was about global corruption. (Photographs by Ian Berry/Magnum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (91%); INSECTICIDES (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (87%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); BIRDS (66%); COTTON FARMING (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Malaria; Mosquitoes; Ddt (Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Children and Youth; Third World and Developing Countries; Pesticides; Malaria

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (91%)

PERSON: Tina Rosenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); BURUNDI (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBERIA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%) South Africa; Africa

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



258 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Fit to Be Tied

BYLINE: By David Herbert Donald. 
David Herbert Donald is the author, most recently, of '' 'We Are Lincoln Men': Abraham Lincoln and His Friends.''

 BODY:

CENTENNIAL CRISIS
The Disputed Election of 1876.
By William H. Rehnquist.
Illustrated. 274 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $26.
 NOT until the final chapter of ''Centennial Crisis'' does it become clear why William H. Rehnquist wrote this book. A reader begins with the expectation -- or perhaps the hope -- that the chief justice of the United States, who presided when the Supreme Court arrived at its controversial decision in the 2000 election, would offer fresh insight into the thinking and behavior of the justices in the other great disputed presidential election, that of 1876, when the Republican Rutherford B. Hayes defeated the Democrat Samuel J. Tilden by only a single vote in the electoral college. Indeed, in his first pages Rehnquist calls attention to the ''undoubted similarities'' and suggests that tracing parallels should prove ''interesting and perhaps instructive.''
 ''Centennial Crisis'' does not live up to that promise but instead offers a straightforward, at times almost plodding, account of the political events leading up to the disputed 1876 contest. Weary of the scandals of the Grant administration, Republicans nominated Rutherford B. Hayes of Ohio, who had the unique distinction ''of being the governor of a swing state and of being acceptable to all factions of the party, even though he was the first choice of only a small minority.'' Hayes's distinguished Civil War career was in marked contrast to the civilian paths chosen by Tilden, who had built his reputation on fighting the Tweed Ring in New York City. In truth, neither man aroused passionate enthusiasm. Hayes, a first-term governor, could boast only ''a lackluster two terms in the House of Representatives,'' while Tilden was a cold fish who never endeared himself to the Democratic bosses or masses. His appearance, his biographer Alexander C. Flick remarks, ''was that of a man of importance, and yet for some reason his clothes never seemed to fit him quite right.''
 Nevertheless, foot soldiers for both parties ran spirited campaigns, and when the votes were counted, the two candidates were virtually tied. Tilden, it was clear, had won a small majority of the popular vote -- but Republicans claimed that Democrats prevented thousands of African-Americans in the South from voting. Republican canvassing boards in South Carolina, Florida and Louisiana began scrutinizing returns, throwing out enough Democratic ballots to allow Republicans plausibly to argue that Hayes had won their states' electoral votes and with them the election. Since all three states submitted conflicting returns (and there were minor irregularities elsewhere), Congress had to choose. If the decision lay with the Republican Senate, it would be Hayes; if the choice fell to the strongly Democratic House, it would be Tilden. As tempers flared high -- there was even talk of renewing the recently ended Civil War -- political leaders came up with an extra-Constitutional solution: refer all disputed electoral votes to an electoral commission, consisting of five members of the House (three expected to be Democrats and two Republicans), five members of the Senate (three would be Republicans and two Democrats) and five Supreme Court justices, two of whom were known to be Democratic and two Republican. The fifth named justice, David Davis, an Independent, at the last minute declined to serve and was replaced with Justice Joseph Bradley, a Republican, who thus became arbiter of the election and gave it to Hayes by one electoral vote.
 That, in short, is the story that Rehnquist tells, and it is a familiar one. Except for a surprisingly impassioned defense of Bradley, he adds little to the standard account presented by Paul Leland Haworth in his 1906 monograph ''The Hayes-Tilden Election.'' There is no evidence that his study involved any digging into the original sources, like the richly rewarding Rutherford B. Hayes papers or the Samuel J. Tilden papers. Indeed, ''Centennial Crisis'' does not draw on some of the best secondary literature: C. Vann Woodward's ''Reunion and Reaction: The Compromise of 1877 and the End of Reconstruction'' (1966) is cited in the bibliography, but the text makes no reference to that pioneering study, which showed how economic forces, especially powerful railroads, helped shape the election outcome. Perhaps Roy Morris's rollicking ''Fraud of the Century: Rutherford B. Hayes, Samuel Tilden, and the Stolen Election of 1876'' (2003) appeared too recently to attract Rehnquist's attention, but Keith Ian Polakoff's ''Politics of Inertia: The Election of 1876 and the End of Reconstruction,'' the most insightful analysis of the political background, has been available since 1973.
 Probably such deficiencies do not trouble the chief justice, because his purpose is not to offer a new interpretation of the disputed election or a fresh evaluation of its outcome. ''Perhaps,'' he speculates, ''a truly independent commission could, in due time, have produced satisfactory proof that, at least in Louisiana, Tilden had received a majority of the vote,'' and then broodingly reflects, ''but at what cost,'' whether to the electoral process or to the country. He asks, and is well content to let Bradley's rulings stand. 
 Rehnquist's 28-page epilogue may offer the real reason he wrote this book. In it he reviews the numerous calls that the Chief Executive and, less frequently, Congress, have made on the Supreme Court to perform what he calls ''extrajudicial'' functions, beginning with George Washington's appointment of Chief Justice John Jay to negotiate a treaty of amity and commerce with Britain after the Revolution. A century later President William McKinley asked Justice Melville Fuller to serve on the peace commission to settle the Spanish-American War. Franklin D. Roosevelt named Justice Owen Roberts to investigate the Pearl Harbor disaster, and Harry Truman picked Justice Robert Jackson to serve as chief prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials. Lyndon Johnson selected Chief Justice Earl Warren to head a bipartisan commission that examined the Kennedy assassination.
 Recognizing the importance of these activities, Rehnquist nevertheless deplores the drain on the manpower and resources of the court. His position necessarily remains ambiguous. But reading between the lines makes clear that he regards the 2000 election as comparable to those previous national crises and believes that the court, far from rushing in to short-circuit the political and constitutional process, acted reluctantly. He seems as certain as his predecessors were in 1876 that the justices' participation saved the nation from ''a situation fraught with combustible uncertainty.'' He concludes his book with the+words, ''they did the right thing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: David Herbert Donald; William H (Chief Justice) Rehnquist

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



259 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6; The World: Political Progress Scale

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: How's China Doing? Yardsticks You Never Thought Of

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
IS China, with its mix of raw capitalism and tattered Leninist politics, edging toward a more liberal, middle-class state or is it hurtling toward a political seizure? Hunting for clues, Western experts track such things as the government's treatment of dissidents, its willingness to experiment with real elections and the frequency of labor demonstrations. They search for an emerging Communist leader who might speak like a Gorbachev, if not a Jefferson.
 By those measures, progress toward democracy is glacial at best. Yet even the casual visitor to China senses a society in the throes of change. 
 So perhaps there are other, more telling markers of change. Following is an idiosyncratic list of seven trends that bear watching, based on observations made while I was a correspondent of The New York Times in China from 1998 to mid-2003, a period of extraordinary growth and hints of unrest in China.

1. THE RETURN OF TALENT -- In the 1980's and 1990's, many of China's brightest students went abroad to graduate school and never returned. They saw vastly more opportunity to pursue business or science or scholarship in the United States, Europe and Japan.
 In the last few years, lured by China's awesome economic growth and a hope of greater freedoms, significant numbers of Chinese-born professionals and even artists are moving back. Many work in the private sector but some are taking government jobs.
 The trend is still tentative. Those who have gained permanent residency in the United States, for example, are hanging onto their green cards, even as they test the waters at home. If these returnees stay and join the Chinese establishment, this may indicate that the rule of law is spreading and that party hacks are losing their grip. But if many are fed up and leave again, whether because of unbearable corruption, red tape or repression, watch out.

2. MIGRANT LABOR: WAGES -- As much of the countryside stagnates, more than 100 million villagers are off doing construction or menial labor in cities, or working on assembly lines in the coastal factory belt. Often they work for $50 to $100 per month, struggling to send money home and build a little nest egg. Their home villages, meanwhile, can seem all the more desolate, populated only by children and the elderly, who live off remittances from afar.
 A central question haunting China's development and future stability is this: Will these migrants gain a toehold to pull their children and extended families up toward eventual prosperity? Or are they stuck on a treadmill of poverty, with meager wages consumed by survival and the land taxes they still must pay in the home village?

3. MIGRANT LABOR: RIGHTS -- A large share of migrant workers have no legal status and are subjected to both official and informal discrimination in education, housing and employment. They are treated almost like illegal aliens, even as they perform vital work. Such treatment of migrants may be China's most widespread human rights abuse and is kindling resentment among the victims. Some scholars and civic leaders have begun to acknowledge the injustice, indicating a possibility -- but no certainty -- that migrants' lives will improve.

4. CHILDREN OF LAID-OFF WORKERS -- As China has closed down decrepit state industries, the country has been rocked by demonstrations, usually by laid-off workers who feel abandoned or cheated. But extensive conversations with laid-off state workers -- including those who have demonstrated over unpaid pensions or executive corruption -- suggest that many are resigned to their fates.
 In case after case, the degree of resentment or rebellion hinged less on the older workers' own plights and more on the prospects for their children. Those with a son or daughter who is getting higher education or is ensconced in a modern-sector job tend to be hopeful still, and they are numerous. The most disaffected are those who face multigenerational unemployment and despair.

5. YUPPIE POLITICS -- The pressures for reform may flare most powerfully not from the downtrodden, but from the new, property-owning middle class, which will demand accountability from officials.
 In 2003, the most vociferous illegal demonstrations in Beijing were staged not by desperate workers but by young professionals who said they had been cheated by developers of their apartment complex, abetted by local officials.

6. WEB SURFERS -- The spread of Internet use has left many experts wondering about its effects on China's politics. Even in a modest-sized town in Tibet these days, young people are crowding Internet bars late into the night. But virtually all of them so avidly typing and scrolling are playing Web-based games, or posting messages in frivolous chat rooms.
 Scholars and determined members of the intelligentsia take advantage of the Internet to learn things the controlled press conceals, and the government's Web police arrest those who are caught spreading ''seditious'' literature. But the subversive potential of the Internet will be realized only if large numbers of game players start using their computer literacy for more serious pursuits.

7. HUMAN RIGHTS FOR DOGS, AND VICE VERSA -- This is no joke. Visitors to Beijing and other big cities may notice an eerie absence of dogs on balmy weekend afternoons. This is not because they are regularly eaten; in fact, the Chinese love their pet dogs as much as any people anywhere. But because of outdated and draconian laws, tens of thousands of pet owners in Beijing alone must keep their dogs in the closet, as it were.
 In Beijing, dogs are not allowed outside in the daytime; those caught outdoors are confiscated and killed. They are not allowed in parks, on grass or on elevators -- even when elderly owners live on the 14th floor. They may not grow taller than knee-high, on pain of death. And licenses are expensive.
 The predictable result: many dogs never go outside. Thousands are confiscated each year for being in the wrong place at the wrong time, or growing a little too big. In the back alleys, where the police can't drive, families flout the law and play with their pets outside during the day. In fancier parts of town or near any major street, nobody dares.
 Many dog owners are seething, even as their pets suffer. And as China becomes more developed and socially atomized, with a huge increase in elderly people living apart from their children, the yearning for canine companionship is certain to grow.
 Can a rickety urban government respond to this change in social attitudes and practices? Matters like this, as much as censorship of the press and the jailing of dissidents, may determine the fate of the Communist Party.


GRAPHIC: Photo: FLOUTING THE LAW -- In China, dogs are not allowed outside in the daytime. This makes a lot of Chinese mad at their government. (Photo by Erik Eckholm/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CHILDREN (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); FAMILY (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%) Dogs; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



260 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; Executive Life

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: These Career Coaches Are Learning, Too

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
THE career coach didn't waste any time on small talk with the job seekers who gathered here at the New England Shelter for Homeless Veterans on a wintry Wednesday afternoon.
 ''You're trapped in an elevator with someone and you're going to take advantage of it,'' said the coach, John Ireland, creating a job-search situation for his audience. Practicing this elevator drill, he explained, develops the ultimate networking tool: a simple, clear statement that tells someone about who you are -- as well as your skills and experiences and the type of job you want -- and how that person can help you. 
 ''In 30 seconds, you got them!'' he said. 
 Mr. Ireland, a former division president at the Nashua Corporation, a maker of specialty paper and printing products, is also looking for work; his position was eliminated recently. He is a client of New Directions, an outplacement and career counseling firm in Boston for senior executives. Each week, he and other New Directions clients volunteer at the homeless veterans' shelter to share the skills they learned for their own job searches. ''The endgame is the same as I have -- to get a job,'' Mr. Ireland said. 
 David D. Corbett, chief executive of New Directions, says clients are encouraged to volunteer because they have skills and perspective worth sharing. The volunteer work also benefits the clients, he said. ''It's very practical,'' he said. ''When you are up on yourself, you interview better.''
 In the last five years, 200 New Directions volunteers have helped more than 800 veterans in job-search workshops at the shelter. In the past, most participants in the workshops were veterans in the Boston area, but the groups included a small number of veterans staying at the shelter. A pilot career coaching program exclusively for shelter residents began in December, and New Directions clients now work with this group as well. 
 ''I never would have had the opportunity to come into contact with people of this caliber on my own,'' said Rodney, 36, who, with the other workshop participants, asked that only his first name be used. At the beginning, he said, ''it was a little intimidating, but the coaches are down to earth, real, just like me.''
 ''It helps them get out of their own situation,'' he added, ''and I think a little 'do as I do' reinforces it to them.'' Rodney, a shelter resident when he worked with the executive volunteers, moved into an apartment this month. 
 Earlier, John J. Iacobucci, who volunteered as a coach while a client of New Directions, agreed. ''I do it as much for myself as I do it for them,'' he said. ''Teaching solidifies your knowledge. It's a useful way to stay sharp.'' He was recently hired to be chief financial officer of Namco, a company that sells pool and patio equipment. 
 In a typical coaching session for the shelter residents, volunteers begin by demonstrating elevator drills, and the veterans practice them in front of the group. Then they break into smaller groups to work on resumes, cover letters and interviewing techniques. 
 William Placke, a former president and chief executive of First Trade Union Bank in Boston who is now a client of New Directions, did mock job interviews with Bruce, 47, and Robert, 42.
 ''I'm looking for a job as an assistant grill chef,'' Robert said. ''I just finished a culinary arts class at the Vet Tech center, where I helped to prepare 600 to 700 meals a day.'' He said he works well with others, pays attention to detail and worked as an avionics technician in the Air Force, where punctuality was important. 
 ''I loved it when you told me about 600 to 700 meals a day,'' Mr. Placke told him. ''That gives me the sense you can work in the field.'' 
 Bruce went next, explaining that he had been in the military for 13 years, where he had ''Radar's job,'' referring to the television series M*A*S*H, and was responsible for acquiring equipment and clothing for his unit. After leaving the military, he worked as a hair stylist. 
 ''I want to learn something about franchising a hair salon,'' he said. ''I understand you work in banking and finance -- any possibility you can help me?'' 
 Mr. Placke said: ''I'm always impressed with anyone who wants to take a risk. I have a connection in Rhode Island, who focuses on franchising businesses.'' Participants say they often receive such referrals in the coaching sessions. 
 PART of the challenge for the veterans is to emphasize skills from past jobs or the military, Mr. Placke said. 
 A few months ago, he worked with a homeless man who had been trained as a Russian linguist; he intercepted and translated messages during the cold war. 
 Mr. Placke encourages the veterans to be candid about any past troubles. He often tells his students that ''the employer will find out anyway,'' and that ''it's what you did after you made mistakes that counts. '' 
 The shelter's staff selects the residents most likely to benefit from the workshop. 
 ''By the time they get to us, their numbers are winnowed down,'' said Mary M. Westropp, executive director for the Foundation for New Directions, the nonprofit division of New Directions. ''A large population applies for the program; a smaller group is admitted; a smaller-still group actually enrolls and graduates.''
 It is too early to gauge the effectiveness of the pilot program for the homeless veterans, but Terry Bertrand, director of employment and training for the shelter, said that 80 to 90 percent of the students in the original coaching program had been placed in jobs relatively quickly, depending on economic conditions at the time. 
 ''It is clear from Department of Labor Statistics that our students spend less time searching for a job than has been the national average,'' she said. 
 Robert, a shelter resident, says he hopes the training will work in his favor. ''When I got out of the military, things just spiraled downhill,'' he said. At the shelter, he said, ''I take advantage of everything; I'm taking all the classes.''
 ''Maybe we've got a shot out there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In his volunteer work with veterans, William Placke, left, a former bank executive, shares the skills he has learned in his own job search. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); VETERANS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (73%) Executives and Management; Volunteers; Labor

COMPANY: NASHUA CORP (69%); CENVEO INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: New Directions (Co)

TICKER: CVO (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (69%); SIC2672 COATED & LAMINATED PAPER, NEC (69%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (69%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (69%); SIC2677 ENVELOPES (69%)

PERSON: David D Corbett; Tanya Mohn

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); NASHUA, NH, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



261 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 53; FOOD

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Way Uptown

BYLINE: By Jason Epstein

 BODY:
By the 1960's, with the pain of the Second World War and Korea still vivid and a new war festering in Asia, Manhattan, suffering one of its periodic paroxysms of self-destruction in the name of renewal, was again at war with itself. The double-decker buses, with their open tops in the spring, where romantic tourists ate their picnic lunches, were scrapped. The old Lafayette restaurant in Greenwich Village was demolished. Schrafft's, with its Irish waitresses in their black dresses, white aprons and lace tiaras, with its date-nut bread, creamed chicken with bright green peas and pineapple sundaes, was dying as if in sympathy with the afflicted cityscape itself. A developer seriously proposed tearing down Carnegie Hall and replacing it with a vertical crate the color of tomato soup. He was thwarted. But another developer got away with wrecking the glorious Pennsylvania Station and erecting in its place a grimy glass and concrete box, the mortal twitch of a dying modernism. Sprouting along Sixth and Third and Lexington, these morbid boxes were like the detritus of an intergalactic invasion. One of them, across the street from Random House, where I worked for many years, displaced Cafe Chambord, Roger Chauveron's great belle epoque restaurant at 3rd and 49th, where I dined when I could afford it. 
 At the height of this fever, the city's power brokers nearly succeeded in cutting the island off at its knees. The plan was to link New Jersey to Brooklyn via the proposed multilaned Lower Manhattan Expressway, straight across Broome Street from the Holland Tunnel to the Manhattan Bridge, obliterating swaths of Chinatown, Little Italy and the century-old cast-iron neighborhood that would become SoHo. The Interstate highway link would have meant a lava flow of federal funds and, as a bonus, acres of cleared land for redevelopment between Houston and Canal. After years of struggle, subterfuge and broken political promises, the assault was beaten back by an aroused neighborhood. Unwittingly, the developers and their political servants played into the hands of their great adversary, my dear friend Jane Jacobs, a grand strategist of the Broome Street rebellion, whose triumph launched the age of neighborhood preservation and rehabilitation and with them the celebration of craftsmanship that helped make downtown Manhattan a world center of style and, inter alia, a culinary Parnassus. 
 But Harlem's crumbling neighborhoods were redlined -- unbankable and ineligible for renewal. Thus, unlike Midtown or the flashy new Lincoln Center, Harlem remained linked to its past, which is why I liked to go there. The Savoy and the Cotton Club and the white revelers who patronized them were long gone. But at Wells and Jock's, the fried chicken and sweet potato pie were undiluted classics, authentic as a Lincoln penny. So were the doughnuts at George's on 125th Street, whose sugary Southern recipe would later be popularized by Krispy Kreme. After amateur night at the Apollo on 125th Street, you could go next door to Frank's, where Harlem's grandees dined from a menu unchanged since the 20's -- rib roast, porterhouse, lamb loin, pork chops, duck bigarade. Later, at the bar at the Baby Grand, you might catch sight of Billie Holiday, unemployable in New York after her heroin conviction, or the legendary Bumpy Johnson, who, with his partner Queenie St. Clair, had once run the uptown numbers racket until the Mafia took over and Bumpy landed in Alcatraz. He returned none the worse for wear but, like Billie, was now unemployable.
 My favorite was the Red Rooster at 138th and Lenox, with its collards and potato salad and beets and the best fried chicken in New York, never more than three and a half pounds, the light, crisp batter a perfect foil for the tender meat. The Red Rooster occupied the ground floor of a brownstone, three steps down from the sidewalk. The room was smoky and dim, the ceiling low, the light bulbs red. The Red Rooster was not a decorator's idea of what a Harlem joint should look like. It was what a Harlem joint looked and sounded like, with its bubbling neon jukebox playing Coltrane and Hartman, Ella and Billie, Monk and Miles. You could find a more elegant version midtown at Nicholson's on East 58th Street, where the great Edna Lewis cooked and the clientele was fashionable. At Birdland on Broadway, you could hear the music live, except for Billie, who was forced to work in New Jersey, when she worked at all. But the right way to enjoy a dish of fried chicken and grits with coleslaw and sweet potato pie was uptown, with Coltrane on the jukebox. At least until anger about the war in Vietnam and racial injustice so infected the city that Harlem was no longer a joy to visit.
 But by then I had learned to imitate the Harlem chefs and could make soul-food dinners, to use the culturally correct term, at home. There are endless ways to fry chicken. You can marinate the chicken in garlic powder, cumin, paprika and cayenne or in Lawry's seasoning. Or simply in salt and pepper, with or without paprika or lemon juice, or dipped in milk or buttermilk and coated with flour, egg wash and crumbs or simply in crumbs or panko or crushed cornflakes, with or without honey and so on and on. But the uptown version is simply to dust the pieces in flour with a little seasoning and fry it in real (not packaged) lard, for which downtown cooks can substitute corn or canola or peanut oil. Black-eyed peas are essential. So are collard greens, for which you simply wash the greens, discard the stems, cut the leaves into 2-inch strips, simmer a ham hock covered in 3 inches of water for an hour, then add the greens and simmer till tender, 40 minutes to an hour. Drain the greens, flavor them with vinegar and hot sauce and serve. I have also included Alice Waters's delicious sugar-free coleslaw with jalapeno, cilantro and lime. It's not soul food, but it's a treat nevertheless. 
 Much of the Harlem I once knew is gone, and the new soul-food restaurants are now compulsory tourist stops. It was inevitable that Harlem would be gentrified, and if I had my life to live over, I might even be tempted to buy one of the old brownstones now before the prices go much higher. Instead, I'll settle for my versions of the fried chicken with collards and peas that my friends and I once took the A train uptown to find.

Fried Chicken
2 (3 1/2- to 4-pound) chickens for frying 2 tablespoons Lawry's seasoned salt or 2 tablespoons of a mixture of equal parts sea salt, freshly ground pepper, garlic powder, paprika and cumin
Vegetable oil for frying
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup rice flour.
 1. Rinse chickens inside and out under running cold water and pat dry with paper towels. Remove extra skin and excess fat. Cut off the first joint of wings and the backs and discard. Keeping skin on, cut legs into thighs and drumsticks. Remove the wings, split the breast and cut each half crosswise into two (or ask your butcher to do this). Place pieces in a single layer in a shallow baking dish; sprinkle with seasoned salt or seasoning mix and rub to coat on all sides. Cover and set aside to marinate 1 hour. 
 2. Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Heat 1 1/2 inches oil, enough to cover the chicken pieces 2/3 of the way but no more, in one or two wide, deep skillets or kettles to 325 to 350 degrees over medium-high heat. As the oil heats, mix the flours in a plastic food-storage bag. Add the thighs and drumsticks; shake to coat. Remove each piece with tongs, shake off excess flour and place skin side down in the hot oil without crowding. Fry until skin is browned and crisp, about 7 minutes; turn with tongs and fry until browned and crisp and cooked through, about 7 minutes longer, adjusting heat so chicken doesn't brown too quickly. 
 3. Drain chicken on a wire rack set over a baking pan and keep chicken warm in the oven while coating and frying the remaining pieces: breast pieces next, about 5 minutes on each side, and wing parts last, about 4 minutes on each side. Serve while still warm. The meat will be less moist when served cold the next day, but still very tasty.
 Yield: 4 servings (with leftovers).

Black-Eyed Peas
1 1/2 cups dried black-eyed peas (or use fresh in season)
1/2 pound pancetta, cut into 1/4-inch dice
1 medium sweet onion, halved through the stem and thinly sliced
2 cups chicken stock
1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves (no stems)
1/2 cup loosely packed flat parsley leaves, chopped
Maldon or other sea salt and freshly ground pepper to taste.
 1. Pick over the peas, discarding any broken or undesirable ones. Rinse in a colander; place in a large saucepan and add enough very warm water to cover by 2 inches. Cover and let soak 2 hours. (Fresh peas do not need soaking.) 
 2. Drain the peas. In a heavy-bottomed 4-quart saucepan or Dutch oven, saute pancetta over medium heat until fat is rendered, about 15 minutes. Remove pancetta with a slotted spoon and set aside. Add onion to the fat; saute until soft, about 3 minutes. Remove and set aside. 
 3. Pour off and discard most of the fat. Add the chicken stock and bring to a boil. Add the peas and reduce to a simmer. Add the thyme, pancetta and onion. Cook slowly until tender, 20 to 30 minutes. Add parsley. Season to taste.
 Yield: 4 servings (with leftovers).

Alice Waters's Coleslaw
1 medium cabbage (about 3 pounds), outer leaves removed
1 large jalapeno pepper
1/2 small red onion, cut in half through the stem, peeled and thinly sliced
1 cup loosely packed cilantro leaves, coarsely chopped
3 to 4 tablespoons fresh lime juice
3 to 4 teaspoons red wine vinegar
1/4 to 1/3 cup olive oil
1 1/2 teaspoons Maldon or other sea salt or more to taste
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground pepper or more to taste
Large pinch of sugar or more to taste.
 1. Quarter the cabbage through the core; cut out the core. Cut the quarters crosswise in half; finely shred, using a sharp knife. Place shredded cabbage in a very large bowl or pot (you will have about 5 1/2 quarts). Cut open the jalapeno, discard the seeds and dice it fine. Add diced jalapeno, onion and cilantro to the cabbage and toss to mix. Sprinkle with the lime juice, vinegar, oil, salt, pepper and sugar, and toss to coat.
 2. Let slaw sit for 1 hour, tossing occasionally. Drain; taste and adjust seasonings. Wait another hour. Serve at room temperature.
 Yield: 8 to 12 servings. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Soul-food staples: Fried chicken and black-eyed peas remain Harlem classics. (Photograph by Peter Lippmann
 food stylist: Catherine Bonnet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); WORLD WAR II (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%) Restaurants; Recipes

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Jason Epstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%) Harlem (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



262 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; Personal Business

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Situation Wanted for Unemployed Professional

BYLINE: By PATRICIA R. OLSEN

 BODY:
AFTER a 10-month job search, Thomas Mourer Sr. of Bensalem, Pa., was at his wits' end. He had tried networking with former colleagues and scouring online job sites and newspaper ads, all to no avail. So, in January, he tried a new approach: he placed his own ad in the classified section of the local newspaper, promoting his three decades of management experience.
 ''Desperation made me do it; I figured, 'What have I got to lose?''' said Mr. Mourer, 49, who lost his job in March 2003 as vice president of Active Radiator of Philadelphia, a manufacturer of truck radiators. He said the $413 he received in weekly unemployment benefits was not enough to pay the mortgage and support his wife and five children, one of whom had attended college before Mr. Mourer became unemployed. 
 Jobs-wanted advertisements, also known as positions-wanted or situations-wanted ads, were once the domain of domestic workers or tradespeople, but more unemployed professionals like Mr. Mourer have taken them out in newspapers and online, and with varying degrees of success. 
 Although there are signs that the economy and the labor picture are improving, many people remain out of work or in positions that pay less than their previous jobs. The Labor Department reported this month that 308,000 jobs were created in March. But the economy, on average, has added only 115,000 jobs a month in the last six months, fewer than the 150,000 new jobs that most economists say are needed each month to keep pace with population growth.
 Jobs-wanted ads are ''a new phenomenon'' for professionals, although the numbers are still very small compared with those for help-wanted ads in newspapers, said Kenneth Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board, a business research company in New York that publishes a monthly index of jobs advertised in newspapers. The company does not track jobs-wanted ads, but Mr. Goldstein says he has noticed more of them in recent years as the length of unemployment per job seeker has grown. ''Their situation is pushing them to try something else,'' he said.
 In a long job search, anything is worth a try, said Evan Burks, a senior vice president at the Comforce Corporation, a staffing company in New York. Perhaps a classified ad can at least catch the attention of an executive search company, he said. 
 Anecdotal evidence shows that occasionally people who place such ads are contacted and hired. James Gallagher, 62, of Blue Bell, Pa., said he landed interviews with two companies a week after placing an ad in The Philadelphia Inquirer last winter. Mr. Gallagher, an independent salesman with experience selling medical devices and home health care products, said last week that he had contract with both of them.
 Mr. Mourer, however, was not as lucky. He said he had received several responses to his ad, which cost around $90, ran for a week and appeared just below Mr. Gallagher's ad. But the responses were not always the kind he wanted. The ad noted his 30 or so years of management experience in operations, sales and marketing in health care and manufacturing.
 Several job seekers mistakenly thought it was a help-wanted ad and called to inquire about a job, he said, and two or three callers said they had a position but would not provide details. ''They wanted me to come into their office and said they'd explain more at that time,'' he said, ''so I figured if they wouldn't tell me what kind of work the company did, it was some sort of pyramid scheme.'' He said he politely declined their offers.
 Mr. Mourer said he did land an interview with a swimming pool distribution company and, after being called back for a second and third meeting, he was confident about his chances. ''In the end they told me I was highly qualified,'' he said, ''but they chose someone with industry experience.''
 Charles Pederson, 42, of Marlton, N.J., said he also struck out. He was one of 19 people who placed situations-wanted ads in the classified section of The Wall Street Journal last year, according to Robert Christie, a spokesman for Dow Jones & Company, which owns The Journal. 
 Mr. Pederson, who is director of information technology at Fleer/Skybox International in Mount Laurel, N.J., which sells trading cards and collectibles, said he was looking for new challenges and started ''casually job hunting'' last year. In late October, he bought a one-day ad for $267 that described his qualifications and proclaimed, ''I can run your back office.'' It attracted no responses, he said.
 ''I took a chance doing it; I've been around small businesses enough to know that some people have great ideas and that small companies need this kind of talent,'' he said, adding that he now planned to concentrate more on networking and had hired a research and recruiting business to help.
 Would he ever place another ad? Yes, he said, because, ''I think the needle in the haystack exists.'' 
 Of course, job searching in general can be exhausting, but career experts say some job seekers may be able to improve their odds through the way they write their ads. The trick, they say, is to try to stand out in the crowd. 
 Gina Hall, managing director of the Orlando and Boca Raton, Fla., offices for Drake, Beam & Morin, an outsourcing company, says that most of the ads she has seen have not provided enough information about the job seeker's experience and qualifications. A good ad, Ms. Hall said, should be very specific. If you are a sales representative looking for a new position, for example, you should mention that you have met your quotas, she said. 
 Besides advertising in local newspapers or on the Internet, some career experts say, buying ads in a trade magazine could be a good idea because it could reach a higher percentage of the target audience. 
 It is the message in the ad, not the border or typeface, that attracts potential employers, said Charles Diederich, a director of marketing and advertising at the Newspaper Association of America. ''If you're going to do this sort of advertising, be unique, stand out,'' he added. 
 Mr. Burks of Comforce agreed that job seekers should emphasize their uniqueness. They should list any technical skills and briefly cite their major accomplishments, he said. 
 ''It's like having your 15 minutes of fame -- make it short and sweet,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Mourer Sr. of Bensalem, Pa., who lost his management job a year ago, said ''desperation'' made him place a job-wanted ad in The Philadelphia Inquirer. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAL DEVICES (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (64%) Executives and Management; Classified Advertising; Newspapers; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: COMFORCE CORP (80%); BELL PA (61%)

TICKER: CFS (NYSE MKT) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (80%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (80%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (61%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: Patricia R Olsen

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



263 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; Business

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: In Debate Over Housing Bubble, a Winner Also Loses

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
HOUSING prices have been rising significantly faster than the rate of inflation for eight years. Is it time to worry about the ''B'' word -- a housing bubble, akin to the stock market bubble that burst in 2000? Are buyers who paid sky-high prices at risk of losing a big chunk of their net worth if interest rates rise and housing prices collapse? 
 No and no, according to Hilary R. Croke, an assistant economist at the Federal Reserve Bank in Washington. On the strength of her convictions, Ms. Croke just won a $1,000 prize for a 740-word essay arguing that there is no bubble. 
 But she didn't win over the sponsors of the contest, Dean Baker and Mark Weisbrot, founders of the Center for Policy and Economic Research, a liberal economic research organization in Washington. Mr. Baker and Mr. Weisbrot, who warned of the stock market bubble well before it burst, are as convinced as ever that an even more catastrophic future awaits the housing market.
 The two men offered the prize to see how strong an argument could be built against their views. The challenge attracted 88 essays, including Ms. Croke's. 
 Her essay, and Mr. Baker and Mr. Weisbrot's response to it, provide a snapshot of the debate over the booming housing market taking place among economists.
 Ms. Croke, who was expressing her personal views, wrote that there were ''compelling reasons'' to believe that housing prices were artificially inflated. But she said some factors indicated that the increase in housing prices was based on solid economics, not irrational exuberance in real estate. 
 Demand for housing has been strong for more than a decade, smoothing out the historical pattern of galloping prices in good times and falling prices in recessions, she wrote. The main reason, she argued, is government incentives to bolster home ownership, including the creation of Freddie Mae and Freddie Mac. Lower interest rates and fees for buyers and a desire to own ''bricks and mortar'' rather than stocks and bonds are also factors, she wrote. While housing prices may not continue a stunning climb, she concluded, ''a collapse commensurate with previous asset bubbles is unlikely.''
 Four business students at the University of Chicago -- Scott Leigh, Greg Morishige, Karl Schmidt and Michelle Su -- were the contest runners-up but received no cash prize. They argued that falling interest rates largely explained why housing prices had outpaced inflation. The average rate on new mortgages in 1993 was 9.3 percent; it is now 5.4 percent. Someone who could afford a $250,000 mortgage in 1993 can now borrow $368,800, or 47 percent more, for the same monthly payment.
 But even if interest rates climb, the students wrote, housing prices will not fall rapidly because changes in home ownership occur slowly, while stocks can be dumped in an instant. If rates rise, they wrote, ''housing prices may flatten for a time, even as prices of other goods increase due to inflation. 
 ''As interest rates increase, mortgage interest will be relatively more expensive and rental prices will increase,'' they added. ''Though unpopular, the gap between housing prices and inflation will thus not be closed by lowered housing prices, but by higher inflation.''
 The arguments failed to sway the economists who sponsored the contest.
 ''The fact that people are borrowing against their homes at a rapid rate (more than $750 billion in 2003) is more evidence of an unsustainable bubble,'' Mr. Baker and Mr. Weisbrot wrote in response. ''The ratio of mortgage debt to home equity is at record highs. This fact is especially scary given that equity values may be inflated by as much as 20 to 30 percent as a result of the housing bubble, and that the nation's demographics (with the baby boomers approaching retirement) suggest that many homeowners should have largely paid off their mortgages'' but instead have borrowed their equity through home equity loans. 
 ''The market is responding to the housing bubble exactly as economic theory would predict,'' they wrote, and new homes are being built ''far faster than can be supported by population and income growth.''
 They say weak demand for rentals is the first sign of this oversupply of housing. A result will be a loss of $2 trillion to $3 trillion in housing wealth, they wrote, ''and a downturn that is even worse than the fallout from the stock market crash.'' 
 So who will turn out to be right? Most homeowners are probably cheering for Ms. Croke, and those who have yet to buy for Mr. Baker and Mr. Weisbrot.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hilary A. Croke's essay won prize money, but it did not change the contest sponsors' minds about the housing market. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (93%); HOUSING BUBBLE (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BONDS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%) Housing; Contests and Prizes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Mortgages

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Center for Policy and Economic Research

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: Hilary R Croke; Dean Baker; Mark Weisbrot; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



264 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5; If You're Thinking of Living In/Audubon Terrace

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: An Uptown Pocket With Historic Roots

BYLINE: By NANCY BETH JACKSON

 BODY:
WHILE Audubon Terrace, the name of the historic district and the museum complex at Broadway and West 155th Street, may be one of New York City's biggest secrets, the neighborhood surrounding it is even less well known. The pocket of Beaux-Arts apartment buildings and row houses falls roughly within the old boundaries of Minniesland, the estate where John James Audubon, the painter and naturalist, lived out his last years before his death in 1851.
 ''For the first 11 years I lived here, I didn't know where I lived,'' admitted Matthew Spady, now an avid neighborhood history buff. ''This is like a subneighborhood in Washington Heights and always has considered itself as such.'' 
 The Audubon family owned 30 to 40 wilderness acres, but the exact boundaries are a little fuzzy because the land was developed before the city's street grid extended beyond 155th Street. Also, the Audubons bought and sold various parcels over the years. Generally, the property is thought to have stretched from what is now 155th to 158th Streets from Amsterdam Avenue (then Bloomingdale Road) to the Hudson River. Some sources suggest the estate originally included land between 153rd and 155th now occupied by the Church of the Intercession and Trinity Church Cemetery, where Audubon and other notables like John Jacob Astor are buried. 
 The neighborhood continues to defy geographic labels. It is anchored administratively in Washington Heights but has many cultural ties to Harlem. ''A potpourri, a checkerboard, but a real neighborhood of long standing,'' said Lynn Spanich of the Corcoran Group.
 East of Broadway, modest row houses, mostly rentals, are laid out in grid fashion on the part of the estate once described as ''a flat rocky tract without shrubbery, timber or other attractions.'' To the west, where the Audubons built homes in forests of oak, chestnut and pine, are the Beaux-Arts apartment buildings like the Grinnell and the Riviera that replaced the mansions early in the 20th century, streets at odd angles and a Riverside Drive that briefly splits into three branches.
 The population is diverse ethnically and economically. Many of the African-American and Hispanic residents, mostly of Dominican origin, are second- or third-generation New Yorkers. Artists, academics, actors, doctors and lawyers have lived on both sides of Broadway for years. 
 ''It's a very stable neighborhood,'' with very few sales in the course of the year, said Orlando Rivera, executive director of the Greater Harlem Real Estate Board and Development Fund. He sees it as an undiscovered pocket in the real estate rush to Northern Manhattan, where prices per square foot have risen 63 percent in the past four years.
 The subway stop for the No. 1 train at 157th Street and the M4 and M5 buses give easy access to work and public and private schools from elementary through university. The Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Complex is a few blocks to the north. Many apartment buildings, including a medium-income Mitchell-Lama tower with a waiting list of two to three years, have river views. The George Washington Bridge and major highways are within minutes. 
 LOCATION attracted John James Audubon, his two sons and their families in the early 1840's. New York City -- where he was studying rats -- was an hour and a half carriage ride in good weather on Bloomingdale Road, then the main route between the city and Yonkers. Shops in Carmansville were a quarter of a mile to the east; the larger Manhattanville was south at what is 125th Street today. 
 A spring at the top of the hill at what is now 157th Street, became a stream that fed into the Hudson. Grand forest trees populated much of the property, named Minniesland in honor of Audubon's wife, Lucy; ''minnie'' was an old term for ''mother'' in Scotland, where the family had lived.
 Using profits from the folio edition of ''Birds of America,'' Audubon built a large white frame house with veranda, backing it up against the river bluff, and enclosures for the wild animals he studied. Pet fawns and elk often grazed on the lawn.
 He added a scientific studio and entertained colleagues like Samuel F. B. Morse, the artist and inventor of the telegraph. Morse erected a mast to string wire across the Hudson to send messages between New York and New Jersey.
 But the idyll began to pale about the time the naturalist died. Real estate poor, the family struggled to support Minniesland. ''They possessed much land, but in those days there was little or no market for land,'' wrote George Bird Grinnell, author of a 1927 history. To make ends meet, Mr. Audubon's younger son built a boarding house just east of the present Broadway to house German workers at a sugar refinery on the Hudson at what is now 160th.
 The family sold the easterly part of the estate early on, developing the woodsy western section into a residential neighborhood known until about 1915 as Audubon Park. Residents west of Broadway recently revived the name in an application to extend historic designation northward to 160th.
 The original Audubon Park was a scattering of houses hidden away on winding lanes. ''In the early days of Audubon Park, almost nothing was seen of what in later days was called 'improvement,' '' wrote Mr. Grinnell, whose father, George, rented a house from the Audubons and later owned almost all of Audubon Park. ''The fields and woods were left in a state of nature, and the different houses and their adjacent lands were not separated by barriers.'' 
 Mr. Grinnell, a conservation leader who first suggested the idea of an Audubon Society, recalled in his history that the woods gave way to lawns, the old brooks were turned into sewers and ''everything was smoothed out according to more modern notions.'' The last of the Audubon properties passed into other hands within 35 or 40 years after Minniesland was built. The Grinnell family resisted selling to developers until the subway was extended to 157th Street in the early 1900's. A few of the old homes, including Minniesland, briefly survived the surge of urbanization, but all had disappeared by the early 1930's.
 The subway spurred the creation of Audubon Terrace, one of the first museum complexes in the nation and the boyhood dream of Archer Milton Huntington, the Central Pacific Railroad heir. On Broadway between 155th and 156th, the handsome plaza with monumental sculpture and Spanish Renaissance buildings originally held the Hispanic Society of America, the American Academy of Arts, the American Numismatic Society, the American Geographic Society and the Museum of the American Indian-Heye Foundation. 
 Only the first two remain, joined by Boricua College, the first United States institution to offer bilingual education in English and Spanish. Also on the site is the Church of Our Lady of Esperanza whose stained glass windows, skylight and lamp were donated by King Alfonso III of Spain in 1912.
 In the same period, several Beaux-Arts luxury rental apartment buildings replaced the Audubon Park homes west of Broadway. Many of the smaller buildings have names like Goya and Velasquez, reflecting the masterpieces found in the collection of the Hispanic Society of America. The 12-story Riviera, built in 1910 at 790 Riverside near where Minniesland stood, was designed so that every room in the 212 units was an outside room. At 800 Riverside Drive, the nine-story Grinnell, the other grande dame, has sizable duplex apartments and takes up an entire triangular-shaped block.
 When co-op conversions began in 1980's, the days of glory were long gone. Even a few years ago, a two-bedroom apartment could not be given away for $250,000, one realtor remembered. Real estate activity has been sparse in Audubon Terrace, but prices have risen significantly. That $250,000 apartment recently sold for $599,000. 
 There are other signs that the area is getting ready to join the real estate gold rush. The sponsors of the conversion of the Riviera to a co-op are planning to put a block of unsold apartments on the market next summer. Prices have not yet been set. Smaller apartment buildings are sprucing up their lobbies. Some streets east of Broadway still have something of the feel of a ''Law & Order'' set, but crime rates have plummeted, according to statistics from the 33rd Precinct, although the police say drug sales have not been eliminated from the neighborhood. Litter, not gunshots in the night, has become a quality-of-life issue. 
 Residents often go outside of the neighborhood for shopping, but optimism is up that Broadway will be transformed, as it was years ago farther to the south.
 Miguel Fittipaldi, a lawyer and immigration consultant, who bought a four-story row house on 157th east of Broadway at a city auction in 1989 for $150,000, feels like a pioneer in the neighborhood. ''People thought I was crazy,'' he said. ''When we moved in in 1991, it was still Dodge City with gunfights at night and mostly S.R.O.'s.'' 
 He does not speculate on what he could get for his property today. He is not selling, but he did recently buy and rehabilitate a 1900 town house west of Broadway as a rental property and an investment for his young children. His only regret is that he did not snap up a frame row house next to his brick home for $184,000 a few years back. A similar building in the neighborhood just sold for a half a million dollars.
 Over on Amsterdam at 156th, across from the predominately Hispanic Public School 28 (Wright Brothers School), Sister's Uptown Bookstore is a upscale New Age coffee house and bookstore specializing in African-American literature. It is also an informal community center, offering meditation circles, a percussion workshop called Drumming for Women, book clubs, story-telling programs and book signings. It is also host to the P.R.E.P. program weekly to improve children's basic skills.
 Matthew Spady, who bought a nine-room duplex apartment in the Grinnell in 1998 after living around the corner for 16 years, points to three positive signs of change: more single women walk home after dark, more gay couples live in the neighborhood and window treatments are decidedly upscale. ''It's a trend that's going to continue, but it's not like the next Chelsea,'' he said. ''What's nice is that it is still a very mixed neighborhood, a microcosm of the changes that have taken place in America.''
 Jeff Gardere, a Haitian-American realtor with Dwelling Quest, who has owned a five-bedroom apartment in the Riviera for three years, predicts the middle-class residents of all colors in the neighborhood are not likely to sell out fast.
 ''The neighborhood isn't really changing,'' he said. ''They're upgrading their apartments. They're not moving. What was once average is now hot stuff.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about living in the Audubon Terrace section of Manhattan misidentified the donor of stained glass windows to the Church of Our Lady of Esperanza, which is part of the cultural complex at 155th Street and Broadway from which the neighborhood takes its name. He was King Alfonso XIII of Spain, not Alfonso III. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from above, the view up Riverside Drive at 157th Street, the Hispanic Society of America and Amsterdam Avenue at 156th Street.
John James Audubon's grave near the Church of the Intercession. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
2-bedroom, 1-bath co-op at 159 Riverside Drive West, $599,000. 2-bedroom, 2-bath co-op at the Riviera, 790 Riverside Drive, $815,000. 5-bedroom, 3-bath co-op in the Grinnell, 800 Riverside Drive, $900,000.Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 9,486AREA: 0.07 sq. milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $29,040.MEDIAN PRICE TWO-BEDROOM CO-OP: $450,000.MEDIAN PRICE TWO-BEDROOM CO-OP A YEAR AGO: $325,000.MEDIAN PRICE TWO-BEDROOM CO-OP FIVE YEARS AGO: $250,000.MIDRANGE RENT FOR TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,500.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 6 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 30 minutes by No. 1 local train.GOVERNMENT: City Councilman Robert Jackson
Community Board 12.CODES: Area, 212, 646
 ZIP, 10032.HOUSE GONE MISSING: Minniesland, John James Audubon's country estate, nestled in a grove of oaks, chestnuts and evergreens. Backed up against a bluff, the wooden house was ''a retreat well worthy of so true a lover of nature,'' observed a friend who visited on July 4, 1846. The house underwent alterations as the city encroached, but it survived long after the cliff became a retaining wall on Riverside Drive at 155th Street. In 1931, wreckers were already at work when a committee stepped in to rescue the home. Civic leaders dedicated to wildlife conservation, natural history and science arranged to have the house moved in sections to city property at 161st Street and Riverside Drive where a new stone foundation awaited. Then, it simply disappeared. Subsequent mentions in the press ''are too sketchy to draw conclusions about what happened to the house,'' according to minniesland.com, a site devoted to Audubon art and lore.Map of Manhattan highlighting Audubon Terrace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HISTORY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Nancy Beth Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Audubon Terrace (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



265 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 7843 words

HEADLINE: Making Sense of the Mission

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, is author of ''The Devil's Playground: A Century of Pleasure and Profit in Times Square.''

 BODY:
The garbage is burning on the streets of Port-au-Prince. After a decade in which the international community spent well over $2 billion to foster stable institutions in Haiti, cars and trucks crush the uncollected trash into a paste on the city's shattered roads, while citizens burn it down to a smelly, blackened nub along what once were sidewalks. The same people who loathed the dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier now recall that, under ''Baby Doc,'' Port-au-Prince at least had a sanitation service. 
 I was in Haiti just a few weeks after a small American-led force debarked in Port-au-Prince, this time to restore order after the ouster of the very same Jean-Bertrand Aristide whose restoration to power had been protected by American troops 10 years before -- a shocking reversal of fortune not only for the populist leader but also for the nation-building project itself. What had happened to all those training programs for the police, judges and jailers, to all those World Bank loans for development? Peacekeeping experts argued that the international effort had simply been too halfhearted. I heard something of that in Port-au-Prince, but not much. When I all but invited one of Haiti's leading economists, a former official in the Aristide government, to blame the nation-building effort, he shot back, ''You could have put in three, four, five billion dollars, and you would have had the same results.'' Aristide, he said, would have made sure it was misused. 
 For Americans, and for the United Nations and the other multilateral bodies that over the past decade have taken up the worldwide burden known as nation-building (in Pentagonese, ''stability operations''), Haiti offers an object lesson -- just as do the ethnic riots that flared up in Kosovo last month, leading to the deaths of 28 Albanians and Serbs. The lesson is not ''nation-building can't work''; the lesson is that it is very hard, and that it demands a great deal of both patience and modesty -- qualities that do not come naturally to American policymakers or, for that matter, to Americans.
 Since 2000, I have spent time in four countries with major peacekeeping missions -- Sierra Leone, East Timor, Kosovo and Haiti. Some, like Sierra Leone, consist largely of keeping people from one another's throats. In others, like East Timor, the work involves the laborious building up of what has been systematically wrecked. All these countries, and almost all candidates for peacekeeping, have been profoundly damaged physically, culturally, even psychically, by the time they reach the world's attention. Nation-building is a rehabilitative act, often performed on a patient who does not consider himself sick and is busily trying to tear off the bandages. This, of course, is the situation in which the Bush administration, which blithely ignored the lessons of past missions, has found itself in Iraq. The culture of Iraq often seems so deeply poisoned as to utterly defeat our well-intentioned meddling. Perhaps, in the end, that will prove to be the case. 
 But what is almost impossible turns out to be indispensable. It has become obvious since 9/11 that we cannot allow collapsed states, or rogue states, to fester; their failures have become our problem. Nation-building is no longer a subject for debate: we will get it right or pay the price. 
During the 2000 presidential debates, George W. Bush mocked the idea of nation-building as a dangerous Democratic folly. The function of the American military, he often repeated, was ''to fight and win wars.'' Bush gave the impression that nation-building was something Bill Clinton and his team of woolly-headed multilateralists had dreamed up. But the truth is that while the term is new, the endeavor is not, and the people who know this best are current and former members of the United States military. ''Look at the horse cavalry in the Old West,'' said Col. George Oliver, an infantry officer who served with the Rangers and the Special Forces and headed the Army's Peacekeeping Institute at its War College in Carlisle, Pa. ''They were keeping down the renegade Indians while the settlers established themselves.'' After World War II, Army civil affairs officers ran conquered cities across Europe. Oliver said that his father served in the Constabulary Forces, a gendarmerie that helped police postwar Germany.
 Then came the cold war, and peacekeeping began to seem an unaffordable luxury. ''The cold war was the aberration,'' said Scott Feil, a retired Army colonel who has studied postconflict situations. ''If you took a battalion out of Germany, you could predict how much quicker the Soviet forces would get to the Rhine. It was easy to do the risk analysis and say, 'Too risky.''' The civil wars that consumed nations around the globe during the 60's and 70's became proxy battles for the two great powers, making impossible the cooperative effort required for peacekeeping. And the Vietnam War taught the military a different but related lesson: stay away from anything ''political'' -- the task is to fight and win wars, period. Meanwhile, the cold war paralyzed the United Nations Security Council, which had been designed to enforce and preserve peace. The only peacekeeping missions that could be mounted were passive affairs, in Cyprus, the Sinai and elsewhere, where United Nations soldiers stood between two armies. 
 With the end of the cold war, many of the old client states, suddenly left to their own devices, slipped into chaos. Intervention had become possible, and the fear of humanitarian catastrophe made it unavoidable. So the United Nations and the great powers embarked on a new kind of quasi-military operation for which, it quickly turned out, there was no blueprint. In Somalia, in 1993, the Clinton administration agreed for the first time to permit the American military to serve within the structure of a United Nations peacekeeping operation. Somalia began as a humanitarian mission in which troops oversaw the distribution of food -- successfully, by most accounts -- then suddenly became a military adventure when warlords killed a group of Pakistani soldiers. The attempt to capture the chief warlord, Muhammad Farah Aidid, ended, of course, in catastrophe. The death of 18 Rangers in the ''Black Hawk Down'' incident was a mini-Vietnam, with its very own never-again lesson: no ''mission creep.'' If you can't go in big, with all guns blazing, don't go in at all. When a genocidal civil war broke out in Rwanda the following year, the Clinton administration made it clear from the outset that the United States would not intervene. 
 The Pentagon now termed the range of postconflict activities as ''military operations other than war,'' referred to as ''mootwa.'' Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1993 to 1997, is said to have declared, ''Real men don't do mootwa.'' (Shalikashvili said that he was himself pro-mootwa, but he did attribute the sentiment to other senior officers.) The Clinton administration was, in fact, deeply divided over the merits of peacekeeping, with the State Department typically on one side and the Pentagon on the other. The military itself was divided on the subject, in part along generational lines. Many younger military officials came to feel that peacekeeping and the inevitable political and diplomatic tasks that went with it were not a distraction from the real work, but were the real work itself, or much of it. This generation included Marine Corps leaders like Gen. Anthony Zinni -- who served as an officer or a diplomat in Kurdistan, Somalia (where he was police chief of Mogadishu), Eritrea and the former Soviet republics -- as well as top Army figures like Wesley Clark and the former and current commanders in Iraq, Tommy Franks and John Abizaid.
 The lesson of Somalia, for them, was ''Let's get it right.'' Gen. Gordon Sullivan, the Army chief of staff in the early 90's, served not only in Korea and Vietnam but also in postwar settings in Panama and Kurdistan. Sullivan concluded that peacekeeping operations were not aberrations to be avoided; they were the inevitable consequence of a disintegrating, post-cold-war world. ''Saying, 'You can't do peacekeeping,''' he noted, ''is like saying, 'I'm going to leave all these petri dishes with this liquid in them and let viruses breed.''' While American troops were still in Somalia, Sullivan successfully pushed for the creation of a Peacekeeping Institute on the campus of the Army War College. The institute would both teach and help formulate a doctrine of peacekeeping. It offered two elective courses, in peacekeeping operations and negotiation -- both always oversubscribed -- to the 350 lieutenant colonels who went through the War College every year. Meanwhile, the Pentagon created a new Office of Peacekeeping and Peace Enforcement Policy.
 Among military people, the fight-and-win-wars view had come to seem like a cold-war artifact; most active-duty officers had, after all, seen most of their action in postconflict settings. Two years ago, the Peace Through Law Education Fund, a Washington-based research organization, convened a group of 33 senior military officials, including service chiefs (and several NATO commanders), to survey their views on peacekeeping. The consensus, according to the final report, was that peacekeeping operations not only do not harm combat-readiness, as had often been claimed, they also ''enhance the great majority of combat skills.'' The report said ''engagement in multilateral peace operations is in our national interests and will be a key ingredient in the war against terrorism'' -- and that the United Nations, while generally ineffective at fielding a fighting force, can play a crucial role in forging a political settlement and helping establish the rule of law. 
There is a nomenclatural confusion in the peacekeeping world that mirrors the complexity and variety of the work itself. ''Peacekeeping'' is a United Nations term, which is one reason it has a bad reputation among the hard of head. United Nations officials use terms like ''peace-building'' and ''post-conflict reconstruction'' to distinguish military operations -- designed to preserve stability in a war-torn country -- from the largely civilian work of recreating institutions in order to sustain and fortify the peace. The Pentagon term ''stability operations'' is intended to draw a bright line between preventing people from killing one another and putting a country back together again, but one of the first things American peacekeepers discovered after the cold war is that the distinction was unsustainable on the ground. 
 Late in the fall of 1995, NATO sent a force of 60,000 into Bosnia to enforce the terms of the Dayton accords. Maj. Gen. William Nash, who had gotten a taste of peacekeeping as the governor, effectively, of southern Iraq in the immediate aftermath of the gulf war, was the first commander of the American division in Bosnia. For the first four months, Nash said, he policed the new Dayton-mandated borders, confiscated and stored weapons and kept the ethnic factions separated. Then he realized that his real problem was idle young local men. So Nash put them to work building things. Then he and his troops had to secure several polling areas for the first national election. That sounds like mission creep; but Nash had discovered that he couldn't separate peacekeeping from nation-building. ''The first rule of nation-building is that everything is related to everything,'' Nash said, ''and it's all political.'' Everything, that is, impinges on somebody's power, and in order to establish stable democratic institutions you have to deal with, and often confront, the political structures that provoked the conflict in the first place.
 In 1995, the Clinton administration began devising a ''generic political-military plan'' to apply to future missions. Len Hawley, the N.S.C. official who drew up the plan, said that over the ensuing years, as he and others learned more about the dynamics of peacekeeping and other interventions, this blueprint grew from 7 to 60 pages. A vast new literature of peacekeeping ''lessons learned'' began to proliferate around the same time. For example, the 21,000-man American-led multinational force that arrived in Haiti in 1994 was widely credited with quickly restoring order in a volatile situation. The moral: go in big. But the military made no serious effort to disarm rival factions, which ensured that violence would flourish as soon as the troops left. And the troops left quickly; with the memory of Somalia still fresh, the Americans turned over peacekeeping operations to the United Nations after six months. The United Nations, at the direction of the Security Council, withdrew almost all its forces over the next two years. In order to prove that Haiti was ready for self-government, the international community agreed to hold legislative elections in the summer of 1995. But amid allegations of blatant poll-rigging by Aristide's Lavalas Party, the opposition boycotted the vote, creating a crisis of legitimacy that was never resolved. The moral: nation-building takes a long time, and elections should not be held too soon. And don't forget to take away the guns.
 ''Peacekeeping is not an act, it's a process,'' said Jock Covey, who served as deputy to the first civilian head of the Kosovo operation. ''There's not an exit from it. The intervention peaks when you go in there, and you have to always find ways to build it down without ever talking about an exit.'' This building-down process involves a delicate navigation from a phase of neocolonial dominance to the full return of sovereignty, as well as from an essentially military operation to an essentially civilian one. The initial phase must be very dominant. According to James Dobbins, a former diplomat who played a central role in virtually every peacekeeping mission during the Clinton years: ''There's a clear inverse proportion between the size of the force and the number of casualties inflicted. You need about 20 soldiers per 1,000 inhabitants to stabilize an unsettled population.'' That's a breathtakingly large number; in Iraq, it would work out to almost half a million troops. And yet this overwhelming military force must be coupled with a nuanced awareness of local conditions. ''These places tend to be chaotic, dynamic,'' said Frederick Barton, an analyst with the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a veteran of many peacekeeping operations. ''Our own institutions tend to be static. You have to head things in the right direction rather than controlling them.'' One cannot easily find a peacekeeping mission that exemplifies this peculiar mix of characteristics.
If there is such a thing as state-of-the-art peacekeeping, it would be the NATO-United Nations operation in Kosovo, which began with the retreat of Slobodan Milosevic's forces from the province in June 1999. NATO went in big -- 40,000 soldiers in a territory of two million people. And it worked. The Serbian forces stayed on their side of the border, and the 800,000 Albanians who had fled into the freezing mountains, hounded by rampaging Serbian paramilitaries, returned to their towns and villages and began to rebuild their lives. On the civilian side, administrators streamlined the unwieldy structure they had imposed on Bosnia, ensuring that the various agencies reported to a single official, the special representative of the United Nations secretary general. A RAND Corporation study described Kosovo as ''the best-managed of the U.S. post-cold-war ventures in nation-building.''
 When I arrived in Kosovo early this year, I found officials at Unmik and KFOR -- the United Nations and NATO operations, respectively -- quite hopeful, and the Kosovars themselves rather sullen, if grudgingly optimistic. The Kosovars were sullen because they were sick and tired of international tutelage. The war had ended without resolving Kosovo's status, and the major powers had done little to press the rump Yugoslav state to grant Kosovo its sovereignty. But only the month before, the provisional government of Kosovo had agreed with the United Nations administrator to work together to achieve a series of standards -- on ethnic reconciliation and integration, privatization and the like -- in exchange for which the international community promised to begin discussions on future status in mid-2005. So there was optimism, grudging and otherwise. 
 And something like peace prevailed. Soon after I arrived, I paid a visit to Mitrovica, the notorious city that, in the first months of the international occupation, had become a site of pitched battles between the Albanians who lived south of the Ibar River and the Serbs to the north of it. Despite a few incidents, the Serbs and the Albanians seemed to have reached an uneasy truce. The shutters were pulled at the infamous Dolce Vita Cafe, where Serbian ''bridgewatchers'' had once lounged in thuggish glory. The situation had become so placid that the French NATO troops charged with guarding the region had relinquished control of the bridge to the local United Nations-trained police force, which operated out of a trailer parked in the center of the bridge. This was precisely the way the mission was supposed to ''build down.'' I walked onto the bridge to visit the officers of the Kosovo Police Service and asked the squad leader, Branko Nikolic, if anything had happened recently. He thought about it. ''The other day,'' he volunteered, ''a Serbian girl came and said, 'Is it O.K. to go to the bank?''' -- the bank, that is, on the Albanian side. ''We said, 'It's O.K.'''
 Yet two months later in this same river, a Serb reportedly would force two Albanians into the water, where they drowned -- and on the Albanian side of the river mobs set upon Serbs, burning down their homes and killing eight people. Both the police and the troops were overwhelmed by the size and the sudden violence of the crowds; had the French not regrouped to block the bridge, the Albanians would have rushed onto the north bank to wreak yet worse mayhem. Ethnic reconciliation was the core of the mission, and ethnic reconciliation had failed. Negotiations on Kosovo's final status have been derailed. 
 A senior United Nations official I contacted from New York insisted that the violence was the work of ''nefarious elements'' rather than the expression of widespread hatred, and he added that although the event was catastrophic, ''there have been many elements of the situation that have been promising.'' I'm not sure about the first, but the second is plainly true. I was reminded of Branko Nikolic, the police officer. He was a Serb, commanding a detachment in the most volatile spot in Kosovo. The squad also included an Ashkali man -- the Ashkali are a small, Albanian-speaking ethnic minority -- and, almost more remarkably, a woman. They were all members of the Kosovo Police Service, easily the most successful institution built by the international presence in Kosovo. The training of a local police force had been the single most impressive achievement of the international presence in Haiti -- until it was undermined by graft and largely conscripted into the pursuit of President Aristide's private political objectives. In Kosovo, an American ex-cop, Steven Bennett, arrived almost immediately behind the KFOR troops to begin a police training program. 
 By the time I arrived in Kosovo, Bennett had been sent to Amman to try to do for Iraq what he had done for Kosovo. When I visited the police academy in Vucitrn, north of Pristina, it was being run by Dave Cummings, a retired police sergeant from Akron, Ohio, who had been in Kosovo almost from the beginning of the mission. Cummings explained that the hunger for work of any kind had allowed trainers to be extremely choosy about recruits: only 20 percent of those who took a written exam were even considered, and then an oral exam winnowed out another 90 percent. ''They're told up front the first day what the expectations are,'' Cummings said. ''There are Serbs in every class. There are women in every class. We have zero tolerance for violations of human rights.'' And the Serbian officers I talked to confirmed that the Kosovo Police Service was, in fact, one of the very few truly multiethnic institutions in Kosovo.
 The Kosovo Police Service is an emblem of the united Kosovo that the international community seeks. It is, in this sense, a message to Kosovars. Veton Surroi, publisher of Koha Ditore, Kosovo's best-known newspaper, told me that at the Macedonian border his papers had been checked by a Serbian policeman who spoke to him in Albanian -- an unusual act of respect. It was, Surroi said, a significant exception to ''the enclavization of the mind'' that otherwise dominates Kosovar experience. Nevertheless, the Kosovo Police Service has not provoked the Albanian-dominated government to promote reconciliation on its own or to integrate the upper ranks of the civil service. And Serbs still think of the police as an Albanian institution. Several of the Serbian civilians I spoke to told me that they would entrust themselves first to KFOR, second to the United Nations police and last -- that is, not at all -- to the new local police. Even the optimistic Cummings said that it may take a generation before attitudes change. Cummings also granted that the Kosovo Police Service is far from ready to take over all police duties in Kosovo; the international police will continue to field a large contingent. 
The quick training of the local police was part of a larger recognition that grew out of previous operations, especially in Bosnia: you cannot achieve the stability needed to promote democratic institutions simply by ending organized hostilities. A state with little or no political legitimacy or tradition of legitimate authority is almost bound to descend into chaos absent an intense focus on the rule of law. This is precisely what happened in the initial months in Kosovo. The power vacuum created by the swift withdrawal of Serbian paramilitaries was immediately filled by the rebels of the Kosovo Liberation Army. Albanian mobs took vengeance on suddenly defenseless Serbs, while KFOR troops, who had come to protect Albanians from Serbs, usually just stood by. And the international police force assembled by the United Nations arrived so slowly that it was of little use in helping maintain order. By the end of 1999, an unholy alliance of rebel leaders, political operators and organized criminals had seized control of many of Kosovo's institutions, including much of its municipal government.
 Thanks to its exploits in the months leading up to the NATO war, the Kosovo Liberation Army enjoyed heroic status among ordinary Kosovars even as its leaders came to be accused of war crimes as well as trafficking in prostitutes, guns and drugs. The organization posed a serious threat to Kosovo's future and to KFOR and Unmik's supremacy. ''The K.L.A. was poised to go into opposition,'' a former United Nations official said. ''We could have whacked them, but NATO wouldn't have held together.'' 
 James Dobbins, who during the Clinton administration oversaw the demobilization of the Haitian Army, said that he came up with the idea of dissolving the Kosovo Liberation Army and establishing in its stead the Kosovo Protection Corps, a civilian emergency response unit to which ex-Kosovo Liberation Army fighters would be invited to apply. (He's not the only one to take credit for this inspiration.) It was a tremendously controversial idea, since the United Nations would be rewarding a fair number of extremists and thugs with jobs and allowing the Kosovo Liberation Army to reconstitute itself as an army-in-waiting. But, as Dobbins said, ''it channeled a lot of restless and potentially very destructive energies in a positive direction.'' The Kosovo Protection Corps has been very far from an unmitigated success, but it still seems a vastly better solution to the problem of armed malcontents than what the United States has pursued in Iraq, for example, where the army was simply dissolved. 
 Conscripting a small fraction of ex-rebels into the Kosovo Protection Corps scarcely brought an end to Kosovo's burgeoning culture of impunity. In those early months, first NATO and then the international police began to arrest malefactors. But who would mete out justice? Could you depend on the judiciary in a place so violently divided against itself? ''At the very beginning, we had a debate about maybe bringing in international judges,'' said a former high-ranking Unmik official. ''We felt that we already had Kosovar judges, and they could do it. We were just wrong.'' Fearing allegations of neocolonialism, Unmik restored Albanian judges and prosecutors to their old jobs. But the judicial system only formalized the ongoing national vendetta, exonerating Albanians and handing down stiff sentences against Serbs.
 In 2000, after a rash of ethnic violence, Unmik imported international judges and prosecutors to serve on the most important and sensitive cases. At first, one international judge served on each five-judge panel. Then, when the Kosovar judges simply outvoted the imported ones, the United Nations changed the rules: in cases involving alleged war crimes, or politically powerful defendants who could intimidate local judges, the internationals would control the prosecution and the courtroom. Here was a frank admission that sensitivity to local feelings had to give way before the need to maintain order. Michael Hartmann, one of the most experienced of the international prosecutors, later wrote that peacekeeping missions must be willing to initially brush aside concerns about neocolonialism and ''condition their initial deployment in the judiciary upon a worst-case scenario.'' 
 It is now obvious that all these institutional and cultural changes did not penetrate deeply enough into the fiber of Kosovo to soothe the fear and outrage provoked by the violence before, during and after the war. Is that so very surprising? My Greek KFOR escort pointed out to me that Greeks and Turks have only begun to stop hating one another 80 years after the pillage of Smyrna. Peacekeeping can't change hearts. Nor can it simply transfuse the spirit of democracy and impartiality. Agnieszka Klonowiecka-Milart, the first international judge to arrive in Kosovo, admitted to me that even after years of training and mentoring, her Kosovar colleagues were not ready to handle politically sensitive cases on their own and would not be safe trying to do it. ''You don't internalize these imposed values without seeing the obvious benefit of it,'' she said. ''You must be accorded respect for independence before your own professional class and political class in order to be immune from pressures from society and the media.'' She said she believed that it will be a long time before people like her can go home.
No handle matters, in the end, if one cannot grasp the handle of politics. Kosovo actually has a thoroughly admirable prime minister in Bajram Rexhepi, a former physician, but Rexhepi can exercise only those powers that Unmik chooses to share with him; and so independent political institutions have been infantilized. As Kosovars have waited and waited for their final status to be determined, gratitude has curdled into resentment. When I asked a Rexhepi aide if he could think of something good the United Nations had done, he said grandly, ''In the last five years, we have seen not a single act that shows Kosovo what is democracy, what is rule of law, what is justice.'' This sense of growing embitterment not only poisons Unmik's relationship with Albanians in Kosovo; it also fuels ethnic violence, for Albanians increasingly fear ending up under some form of Serbian control.
 East Timor provides an obvious contrast. By the time an Australian-led multinational force waded ashore in September 1999, the Indonesian military and local militias had gutted East Timor even more thoroughly than the Serbs had Kosovo; most of the country's buildings were burned to the ground. When I arrived the following January, the United Nations was running everything: United Nations officials stamped your passport, passed the laws, ran the courts -- one lesson learned from Kosovo -- and arrested common criminals. The head of the mission, Sergio Vieira de Mello, who would later die in Baghdad, occupied the old Portuguese governor's office and ruled as an all-powerful proconsul. There were complaints, even then, that the United Nations was ignoring local capacity and that the highly paid internationals were distorting the local economy. There were angry demonstrations and a few spontaneous brawls. Yet by mid-2000, Vieira de Mello was able to begin transferring authority to an interim Timorese government; a year later, that government staged multiparty elections to a constituent assembly. By 2002, East Timor was an independent country.
 How was East Timor able to make such a relatively smooth transition to sovereignty? First, because there were few bad guys; the militias largely melted away and left an ethnically homogeneous society. Second, because even the most impatient Timorese knew that independence was in the offing. And third, because of local political leadership. The rebel leader, Jose Alexandre Gusm-o, preached a doctrine of reconciliation and almost always treated the United Nations and Vieira de Mello respectfully. I watched the two men work together as equals, even though they weren't. One lesson drawn by a recent study of peacekeeping in East Timor is that it is extremely difficult for U.N. missions to be effective in situations where influential sections of the host country's population do not support the U.N.'s presence.
 In Haiti, by contrast, international administrators could exercise almost no effective control over an increasingly dictatorial ruler. Take police training as an example. Alix Fils Aime, who served as chief security aide to the prime minister in one of Aristide's governments, told me that the training from French, American and Canadian officials was quite thorough. For several years, the police, long a feared arm of the military (Haiti had no civilian police), enjoyed an almost respectable reputation. Then, in preparation for the 2000 election that would return him to power, Aristide began to turn the police into a private instrument of power. One high-ranking police official told me that, in 2002, he was removed from his post after he refused an order to provide no protection to peaceful anti-Aristide demonstrators, in order to give free rein to the chimeres, his personal squads of goons. And in the final weeks, according to Fils Aime, ''Aristide began giving police uniforms to the chimeres. By the end, there were all these guys from his personal security unit running command posts all over the country.'' 
 This degenerative pattern seemed to obtain in every area. The French established an ecole de magistrature, but Aristide sent his half-educated proteges to the school so they would emerge as judges and refused to give jobs to many of the independent figures who graduated from the program. The Haitian government was decently bankrolled with foreign aid, but Aristide demanded that his ministers fork over millions of dollars to the National Palace, where much of it went to finance the organisations populaires that served as his base of support. The Haitian professionals and analysts I spoke to were quick to blame not only Aristide himself but Haiti's ''winner take all'' political culture. I was constantly struck by the contrast with Kosovo. The Kosovars, having never been masters of their own fate, blamed everything on the United Nations; the Haitians, after 200 years of self-government, blamed everything on themselves.
 The RAND study concludes that what distinguishes successful nation-building efforts -- Germany and Japan as well as Bosnia and Kosovo -- from failed ones is not the beneficiary's prior level of development but ''the levels of effort the international community has put into their democratic transformations.'' This is a fine polemic to aim at the Bush administration, but it seems overdrawn. The beneficiary must cooperate in the project of democratic transformation. East Timor was more successful than Haiti or Kosovo principally because it offered a more hospitable climate for nation-building, and in part for that reason, the international community put in more of an effort. At the same time, it's clear that the swift withdrawal of American forces and the failure to disarm rival factions, and then the willingness of international actors to throw up their hands in disgust at Aristide's intractability, all but ensured failure in Haiti. 
 Is there any hope for Haiti? A big contingent from the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations was making an assessment while I was there. No one knows what will happen yet, but the international community is clearly preparing for Round 2. 
Despite the increasingly widespread acceptance of peacekeeping in the ranks of the military, the conservative thinkers who staffed the upper reaches of the Bush foreign-policy apparatus adhered to the ''fight and win wars'' philosophy. They came in, as James Dobbins puts it, with ''an ideological blinder'': nation-building didn't work; nation-building represented the triumph of the nanny state on an international scale. Defense Department officials initially planned to abolish the Pentagon's Office of Peacekeeping and Humanitarian Affairs; in the end, however, they contented themselves with changing its name to the far more manly Office of Stability Operations, and then ignoring it as much as possible. Even after 9/11, President Bush said, ''We're not into nation-building; we're focused on justice.''
 The administration made its aversion unmistakable when the Army announced in May 2002 that the Peacekeeping Institute would be closed. The Army explained the closing as a budgetary decision, but very few of the current or retired soldiers and civilian experts who constitute Washington's peacekeeping community were convinced. ''I think the decision was made at the highest level,'' said Beth C. DeGrasse, who conducted the 2002 survey of leading military commanders. ''People in the O.S.D.'' -- the Office of the Secretary of Defense -- ''will tell you that peacekeeping was a dirty word there.''
 The 9/11 terrorist attacks made both war and postwar operations unavoidable; but they didn't change the fundamental calculus of leading officials. After the swift and efficient battle to dislodge the Taliban, the administration was praised for inviting the United Nations to adjudicate the process of selecting a new Afghan government led by Hamid Karzai. But just as Afghanistan was supposed to represent a new kind of war, with fewer and more mobile troops, so its postwar governance was intended as an alternative paradigm to East Timor-style nation-building. Matthew Vaccaro, the head of peace operations in the Pentagon in the last months of the Clinton administration and the first years of Bush, characterized the administration position this way: Liberate the people, install good, indigenous leadership and provide those leaders with a national army. ''They take the view that state-building is the responsibility of the indigenous people,'' Vaccaro said. ''It's the process of the indigenous actors building the state that really creates the practices and the norms that are necessary for the state to sustain itself.'' (Douglas Feith, the Defense Department's undersecretary for policy and one of the principal administration architects of this view, declined a request for an interview.) 
 The obvious shortcomings of nation-building make this bootstrap alternative appealing, but Afghanistan has not exactly vindicated it. The country has a government and a constitution. But Karzai's writ scarcely runs past Kabul, fear of violence has brought much development activity to a halt and warlords control most of the countryside. Between the 5,700-man NATO contingent and the 13,000 American troops, Afghanistan has less than one peacekeeper per thousand citizens. The RAND nation-building study describes the Afghanistan mission as ''a clear regression.'' Only now has the American military seemed to acknowledge the depth of the problem: American troops have begun using classic nation-building tactics in order to win over a hostile population. ''These people have seen military forces for 30 years,'' a captain said in a recent Times article. ''Nothing is going to change until they see schools built and wells dug.''
 We now know, thanks in part to reporting in this magazine, that the administration's aversion to nation-building made a fiasco of postwar planning for Iraq. But what I was struck by, in the course of talking to peacekeeping veterans, is just how blatantly administration planners ignored the lessons of earlier operations, as if the liberation of Iraq were so sui generis that the rules simply did not apply. Certainly there was no lack of sound advice. Between September and December 2002, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a leading research center on postconflict issues, convened a series of panels that included leading officials from across the government. The recommendations contained in the final report sum up the wisdom abstracted from past experience: build a transitional security force to arrive immediately behind combat troops and to focus on classic constabulary duties; prepare to demobilize and then selectively reintegrate Iraqi soldiers; establish a United Nations-led transitional administration; recruit standby teams of judicial officials, as well as of international police officers; and so on. 
 Past experience also showed that the postwar is harder than the war and takes more planning. And yet Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general who was chosen to lead postwar reconstruction, had all of eight weeks between the time of his appointment and the beginning of the war to organize the government of a nation of 25 million. Garner's administration ignored virtually all the lessons taught by experience. No international police force was readied, no international judges were contacted and the planned reintegration of the Iraqi Army was abruptly abandoned.
 Michael Bailey, a retired military officer with long peacekeeping experience, said that he was sent to Iraq on contract with the Pentagon to implement plans for the Iraqi army. Hours before beginning a pilot program to find jobs for disarmed soldiers, Bailey said he was told to stop. And when L. Paul Bremer III replaced Garner in May, one of his very first acts was to cancel any plans for reintegration. ''You put 400,000 breadwinners in the unemployment line,'' Bailey said. ''They possess unique skills, and they have to feed their family.'' Some unknown number of ex-soldiers have joined the resistance to American occupation.
 No matter what approach the United States had taken, Baathists and fundamentalists would still be doing their best to kill American soldiers and the Iraqis who work with them, as well as the private contractors who play an increasingly large role in the occupation. But a peacekeeping effort planned as meticulously and as pragmatically as the military campaign could have persuaded far more Iraqis that the occupying forces had their well-being at heart, and thus that their interests lay in cooperation -- in which case, fewer American soldiers might have died. Gen. Anthony Zinni, who in the months before the war testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about the immense difficulties of postcombat stabilization, grows furious when he talks about the mess in Iraq and said of the senior Pentagon figures he holds responsible for it: ''What is remarkable to me is that they have failed the president, and no one is held accountable.''
It is easy to blame ideologues in the administration for getting Iraq all wrong. But it's important to recall that peacekeeping is extraordinarily hard, that nobody can be said to have gotten it ''right'' before and that even if you accept the need for ambitious and expensive efforts, we lack any institutional means of mounting such efforts. Frederick Barton, the co-director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies study on postwar Iraq and himself a former U.S. Agency for International Development and United Nations official with long experience in postconflict settings, said, ''You can't help but come back to the systemic problem: There really hasn't been a lead person, office, place within the U.S. government'' where postwar responsibility lies. ''Every one of these efforts seems to be a surprise to the system,'' he continued. ''If you'd been in any of these rooms and said, 'This is going to be consuming our national-security apparatus in a year,' you'd be run out of there in a straitjacket.''
 Not anymore, of course; Iraq has solved that problem. In July 2003, the Army announced that the Peacekeeping Institute was going to be revived and expanded. Peacekeeping is receiving more scrutiny than ever before. A bipartisan study carried out jointly by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Association of the United States Army, an advocacy group, proposed that the president appoint a director of reconstruction in each postconflict setting and also establish a new agency to support these directors and to maintain standby lists of judges, police officers, human rights monitors, constitutional authorities and so on who could deploy rapidly to the field. Late last year, a policy advisory group convened by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee brought administration officials together with experts inside and outside government to find a better way to handle the civilian administration of postwar situations. The resulting bipartisan bill would create a directorate within the National Security Council -- and a new office in the State Department -- to run future postconflict activities. It's not clear whether legislators can find the political will to move this law through Congress. 
 It is now widely understood that the military, too, must adapt. The ''transformation'' that Donald Rumsfeld has championed toward a lighter, faster, more lethal force worked very effectively in combat situations in Afghanistan and Iraq but operated at cross purposes with the needs of peacekeeping; the smaller force that Rumsfeld insisted upon in Iraq proved unequal to the giant policing task it faced after the opposing army melted away. Military leaders have begun thinking about a very different kind of transformation. Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, the Army chief of staff, plans to close several air-defense and artillery batteries and shift tens of thousands of soldiers into jobs as military police personnel, engineers and civil-affairs officers, thus reversing the process of shedding noncombat forces that began in the aftermath of Vietnam. Schoomaker has also suggested that rather than spending a summer training with the active military, West Point cadets live with a family abroad and learn a foreign language and culture. 
 The authors of a National Defense University study make the intriguing point that the technological transformation of warfare requires a new way of thinking about postwar operations, since hostilities now cease long before the adversary has been exhausted or obliterated. ''The very rapid defeat of the enemy military,'' they write, ''means the U.S. must be ready to field the resources needed to secure stability and begin the reconstruction process promptly -- ideally concurrently -- with the end of major combat.'' This is more or less what has happened in Iraq and Afghanistan, where soldiers fix schools one day and hunt terrorists the next, but the authors propose that this become a matter of conscious planning. The core of the report is a proposal that the military create two division-size units, one on active duty and the other on reserve, to specialize in postconflict reconstruction and to be deployed with combat forces. The study, which includes trenchant criticism of the planning and structure of the postconflict operation in Iraq, was ordered up by the Office of Force Transformation in the Secretary of Defense's own office. 
 Clearly, Iraq's postwar order can no longer be left to hazard. Once it became apparent that Saddam Hussein was not harboring weapons of mass destruction, the Bush administration's rationale for war shifted -- from decapitating a regime that threatened our security to fostering political transformation, first in Iraq, then throughout the Middle East. This is, of course, a call to the most ambitious kind of nation-building. The grandiosity of that goal only points up the intellectual poverty, and the ideological self-absorption, of the postwar planning process in Iraq. The insistence on transferring sovereignty this June 30, while Iraqi institutions are so frail and while deadly violence and chaos still rage, gives the impression that domestic politics counts for a good deal more than the tedious work of nation-building. The means seem wholly inadequate to the ends. 
 Nevertheless, a new day may be dawning. The swift replacement of Jay Garner last spring by Paul Bremer, a seasoned State Department official, offered an implicit acknowledgment that our role in Iraq could not be merely technocratic and humanitarian, but was profoundly and unavoidably political. Bremer has spent much of his time trying to implant democratic institutions and democratic habits in Iraq's arid soil, fostering the creation of a nationwide network of city councils and hectoring the Iraqi Governing Council to reach a compromise on an interim constitution. And an administration that once planned to assign the United Nations a marginal role in Iraqi reconstruction now recognizes that it needs the United Nations to legitimize, and help accomplish, the transfer of sovereignty.
 And once we restore Iraq to the Iraqis -- what then? Will the Iraqis somehow find a serious-minded leader acceptable to all factions -- a Karzai of their own? Will they accept the inroads on their autonomy that come with the nation-building project? And even if they do, will the United States have the patience to stick around while the Iraqis make their mistakes? Simon Chesterman, an authority on peacekeeping at New York University School of Law, recently wrote that ''the importance of domestic politics in the exercise of U.S. power means that it has an exceptionally short attention span'' -- far too short for the slow rebuilding of brutalized countries. Not since the reconstruction of Germany and Japan have we had a stake in nation-building as great as we now have in Iraq. It is hardly clear that our current government -- or the country -- understands that. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter Max for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RIOTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) International Relations; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare 

PERSON: James Traub

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (93%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Sierra Leone; East Timor; Indonesia; Serbia; Kosovo (Serbia); Haiti

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



266 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5837 words

HEADLINE: Blue Skies and Green Yards, All Lost to Red Ink

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS and ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: STROUDSBURG, Pa. 

 BODY:
Ethel Davis first glimpsed her luminous future in 1997 when she saw a television ad that offered a vision of a green, secure world that had seemed hopelessly out of reach.
 ''Why Rent?'' asked the ad for a home builder in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania. ''Our goal is homeownership for you and your family. Every American wants it; every American deserves it.''
 And so, with the ad's irresistible kicker, ''The only thing you have to lose is your landlord,'' ringing in her ears, she did what thousands of her neighbors, many of them middle-income blacks and Hispanics from New York City, did. She took the interstate west, lured by the promise of fresh air, good schools and green, gated communities they could never afford closer to home. 
 It turned out there was more to lose than a landlord. Six years later, after her new house proved far beyond her means and the five-hour daily round trip to her job in New York City sapped her endurance, her marriage has collapsed, the bank is seizing her house and she is back in Brooklyn renting space from a landlord who took pity on her.
 ''I worked so hard for so long, and I have nothing to show for it,'' said Ms. Davis, a 45-year-old legal secretary. ''I'm just devastated.''
 Ms. Davis's migration west was part of a national campaign that has made homeowners of millions of middle- and lower-income Americans. But her tumble from ownership to foreclosure was part of another mass movement.
 In the last decade, lenders have brought foreclosure proceedings against 5,700 homes in Monroe County, Pa., or more than one in five of all mortgaged homes in this rural county that takes in most of the Poconos.
 Thousands more families here are struggling to hang on. In some of the fastest-growing Pocono townships, census data show, one in four minority families are using half or more of their gross earnings to pay for their homes. They are piling on credit card debt, forfeiting college savings and plundering retirement funds just to meet their mortgage payments and unexpectedly high expenses.
 The story of the Pocono Mountains, drawn from corporate and government documents, and interviews with more than 100 homebuyers and dozens of finance industry employees and policymakers, is one of miscalculation and greed, of questionable business practices by builders and banks, of dismal state regulation and a federal policy whose ambitions outstripped its ability to be carried out.
 President Bush is enthusiastically promoting his role in raising the homeownership rate, particularly among minorities. Indeed, encouraging homeownership is one of the few issues the Clinton and Bush administrations pursued with equal ardor.
 But the national foreclosure rate has tripled over the last three decades. Experts say mortgage fraud is on the rise in the United States and is now evident in as much as 25 percent of the loans that falter. And what happened in the Poconos is a disturbing glimpse of how a worthy goal -- helping more middle-income Americans own their own homes -- can sometimes produce disastrous results. 
 Last month, in a familiar scene here, a former renter from Queens, Lewis Delgado, gave up a five-year struggle to pay for his home in Tobyhanna by helping his three sons get their belongings into storage before the sheriff arrived with eviction papers.
 ''We're losing everything that we worked for,'' he said, as he drove off to look for a new place to live. 
 Some tried to avert the calamity here. Finance industry insiders warned government officials and institutions like Chase Manhattan and Freddie Mac that homebuyers were being overcharged and buried in debt, according to records and interviews. Still, the selling and lending rolled on.
 Ethel Davis was good for federal officials who boast of their success in promoting minority ownership. She was good for the home builder and the banks, which used mortgages like hers to reach a new market for consumer loans.
 She was good until she collapsed, and then she became an inconvenient casualty on the bleak side of the housing boom.

Distant Yet Inviting
 There was, to be sure, something quite improbable from the start about having a home in the Poconos and a job in New York.
 It is, after all, 100 miles from Manhattan to Tobyhanna, which means that with no traffic the drive would be two hours; the average rush-hour trip more like three.
 But, many working-class families asked, what was the alternative? Westchester, where the median home price is now $564,000? Nassau, where it is $479,000? Suffolk at $357,000? Bergen County at $392,000?
 The average Monroe County home, by contrast, is going for $148,000, and unlike the pricey New York suburbs, the Poconos seemed to be courting minorities from the city. There was even the promise, often repeated, though a bit vague, that a train was on the way to make the commuting that much more sensible.
 So the ads beckoning urban residents to the distant exurbs hit a responsive note for thousands of teachers and bus drivers, paralegals and postal workers, desperate to have a home, a green yard, to call their own.
 Gilbert Vazquez, a soft-spoken bear of a man, was at work monitoring traffic reports when the Why Rent ad flashed across his TV screen back in May 1995. He stifled the urge to let out a whoop.
 The company where he worked, Handicab, which transported people with physical handicaps, was prospering and so was he in more ways than a growing paycheck: his wife, Madeline, was pregnant.
 They could not stay in East Harlem. He felt lucky to still be alive. Over the years he had been grazed by a bullet, tossed into the air by a speeding gypsy cab and chased by a gang with its pistols blazing. ''Out of a group of 40 friends,'' Mr. Vazquez said, ''I'm one of four who is either not dead or in jail.''
 But house shopping proved harder than he had imagined. Prices were climbing faster than their income, which had just edged past $50,000. Their hunt for a home in Queens, where the dregs cost more than $200,000, left him thinking ''there was no way; we can't do it.''
 So when he saw the ad for the Poconos he phoned Madeline, and they marveled at what seemed like a stunning turn of fate. 
 ''To tell you the truth, I didn't think we were ready for a house,'' Mr. Vazquez recalled. ''But I said, 'Let's go check it out and see what kind of program this is.'''
 In the Bronx, Joane Walton had likewise all but lost hope of getting away when she saw the Why Rent ads five years later. Their home was a roomy two-bedroom apartment near Yankee Stadium. But it sat atop a sheet metal workshop. Used car lots, welding shops and junkyards lined their street.
 Her youngest son had asthma, and she kept all three children -- another boy and a girl -- inside their apartment for fear of crime. She had a good job as a paralegal, and her husband, Edgar Rodriguez, was a school custodian. But they did have a problem: she still had debt from her college days, which tarnished her credit profile.
 To her, the Why Rent commercial resonated not just with beautiful houses. The builder offered a counseling service and savings plan that would let them clear off her debt and build a down payment.
 ''I wanted to be the first in my family to actually own a home,'' Ms. Walton said. ''I wanted to break the cycle, to show my kids that if you work hard, there's nothing you can't do.''
 Ms. Davis had perhaps the most to lose when she first saw the commercial.
 She had gone through bankruptcy just three years earlier and was still recovering from the financial ordeal. Her downtown Brooklyn apartment had an enviable rent of $680, part of the state's Mitchell-Lama housing program, for which the waiting list is measured in years.
 Still, she and her husband, Wayne Young, an accountant for a grocery chain, wanted more elbow room and a safer environment for their son, Lasscelles, then 12. They also saw homeownership as the single greatest route to a sound financial future.
 ''We had a good life and a nice apartment, but what we really wanted was a house to call our own,'' she said.

Forces Align for a Boom
 Cheap land and deft marketing have long been Pocono trademarks. By the time of his death in 1806, Jacob Stroud, who settled the area half a century earlier, had made an enviable fortune selling lots around Stroudsburg, the county seat that bears his name.
 The Poconos eventually became best known for tourism, and Monroe County promoted itself as a quick weekend retreat and the Honeymoon Capital of the World.
 But over the years, the Poconos often became known for less wholesome promotions. In 1973, a land promoter was sued for enticing prospective homebuyers with ''free'' vacations to London for which, it turned out, the takers had to pay most of their own way. Five years later, a former assistant United States attorney was jailed for promoting a housing development with false promises about tennis courts, paved roads and a swimming pool. More recently, a jury in 1993 convicted another developer of defrauding more than 60 home-seekers, in part by selling lots he did not own.
 Developers had bet big on selling weekend homes just before the economy slumped in the early 1990's, and they were left holding swaths of land all paved and piped and ready to go. Then two things came to their rescue. One was the rebounding housing market. The other was the White House.
 Bill Clinton saw housing as a potentially winning issue early in his 1992 presidential campaign. Soon after the New Hampshire primary, he announced that he would jump-start the national homeownership rate, which had languished during the previous 12 years of Republican administrations. 
 It was a promise that Mr. Clinton found easy to keep. A surging economy bumped up the ownership rate with little help from Washington. Then in 1995, he rolled out a 100-point plan for homeownership. The program sought to increase the supply of new homes by streamlining local building codes. It encouraged lenders to ease borrowing by reducing the traditional down payment of 20 percent to a few percentage points or in some cases nothing at all. With help from Congress, the tax law was changed to let first-time buyers use their retirement funds without penalty. Through promotions like National Homeownership Day, people who had never thought they could own a home were encouraged to think they could. 
 As a result of policies pursued both by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush, the ownership rate climbed to beyond 68 percent now from 64.1 percent in 1992. Those four points meant 8 million new homeowners, including 2.5 million lower-income buyers and 1.2 million each for blacks and Hispanics.
 The makeup of the Poconos and the goals of the federal housing policy were in perfect alignment. Soon billboards for ''award-winning homes'' sprung up at the border of New Jersey and Pennsylvania where Interstate 80 climbs up from the Delaware River.
 The larger developers also bought air time in metropolitan New York. The Keystone Development Company had a commercial that opened with urban warfare and finished with grazing deer. But none played more artfully to the aspirations of apartment-bound city dwellers than the ''Why Rent'' catch phrase.

The Builder
 In many ways, the man behind the Why Rent ads, Gene P. Percudani, was just right for the national homeowner campaign. Born in Queens, the son of a carpenter, he exuded self-made success. He studied architecture at City College of New York, moved to the Poconos in the 1970's and fit right in with his personable style, confident but not pushy.
 ''Is he driven? Most successful businessmen are,'' said Dario Belardi, a partner in one development just outside the Poconos and a former executive with Caesars resorts. ''But he's a great family man. A humanitarian. A decent human being.'' 
 Not all of Mr. Percudani's projects were royal flushes. His venture with Mr. Belardi, for example, is struggling to attract buyers.
 He also got in a legal brawl with his main Pocono associate, an entrepreneur named Gerard Armond Powell whose businesses included selling vanity toll-free numbers and marketing loans for plastic surgery. After fighting over a $2 million settlement to dissolve their partnership in 1996, they took their Virginia operations into bankruptcy.
 But in Monroe County, Mr. Percudani gained a reputation as a prolific builder. By the mid-1990's, he was telling prospective buyers that he had built about 1,000 houses, many of them starter models. 
 On weekends, prospective buyers at his office in Tannersville stepped into a dreamy whirl of model-home photos and videotaped testimonials from satisfied buyers.
 ''I came away really impressed,'' Mr. Vazquez said. ''I thought this will be great for kids, but it's not so far that we couldn't catch a show in the city.''
 Ms. Walton fell in love with a gated community, Emerald Lakes, and put down a $900 deposit before returning to the Bronx. ''I imagined us getting married again by the lake,'' she said. ''I wanted a place we could invite all my friends and family.''
 Ms. Davis picked out a lakeside lot in another community called Pocono Country Place. Few of the homebuyers interviewed for this article looked at other places, met other developers or considered an existing home, prompting some longtime Pocono residents like Susan McGinty to point a finger: ''They should have known what they were getting into.''
 Mr. Belardi said prospective buyers saw homes for $80,000 in the Poconos and homes 5 or 10 times as expensive closer to home and made bad decisions.
 But homebuyers say there was often pressure to buy now, buy fast, and the best deals seemed to be always nearly gone. There were free decks and fireplaces and an advertised monthly mortgage of $685, but in limited quantities. They were also tempted by extras that ended up raising home prices beyond what they first thought they would pay. One buyer, David Johnson, recalls hearing a cellphone exchange that he now suspects was staged; his sales agent fought with a colleague over whose customer would get the lot where they stood.
 ''It just seemed like such a real good deal,'' Ms. Davis said. ''I mean these people were willing to build us a brand-new home for not much more than we were paying in rent for a tiny apartment. Who would walk away from that?''
 It did not take long for many of them to start having second thoughts. Their lakefront lots would become mysteriously unavailable, forcing them to settle for lesser spots. Also, Pennsylvania, unlike most states, had no building code to set standards for critical matters like foundations, plumbing and insulation; only this year did state officials finish writing such a code. 
 At her housewarming party, Ms. Davis's father, a builder from Chicago, pronounced the house ''a rip-off.'' There was no polyethylene sealant wrap under the vinyl siding, he told her, and almost no insulation in the walls or in the attic. ''We'd walk around all winter bundled up in sweaters and coats,'' she said, shivering at the memory. 
 Many other homebuyers interviewed for this article blamed a number of builders for problems like foundations that sagged, siding that peeled, basements that flooded, and yards in which all of the soil had been scraped away. In 1992 the Pennsylvania attorney general, Ernest D. Preate Jr., sued Mr. Percudani for deceptive practices on behalf of 11 aggrieved buyers who cited similar construction woes. Mr. Percudani settled the suit by making repairs and returning deposits.
 Mr. Preate is now in private practice and represents Mr. Percudani, who declined to be interviewed. ''Gene built a good house with good value and tried very hard to help people fulfill an American dream out in the country,'' Mr. Preate now says. ''If there is a complaint he fixes it.''
 However disappointing some houses were, many buyers soon faced far greater trouble rooted in the relationship that Mr. Percudani formed with one of the world's most prestigious banks.

The Borrowing
 Mr. Percudani did more than build houses to further the cause of homeownership. He lined up the loans that buyers needed to pay for their homes, and worked with more than 20 lenders including First Union and SunTrust Banks. But most often, he turned to the mortgage unit of Chase Manhattan, now known as J.P. Morgan Chase, an executive with his company said in a deposition. 
 The bank had low interest rates and fast service and its status as a corporate powerhouse had a calming effect on nervous buyers like Mr. Vazquez. ''Whatever little fears I had went out the window,'' Mr. Vazquez recalled. ''I basically said, 'If Chase was involved, I don't have to worry about this.' ''
 Chase was certainly eager for the business. The bank had embarked on a national expansion into home lending and was sensitive to the minority-lending goals of regulators who held sway over its growth. In 1996, it won high praise for joining an urban program that counsels first-time buyers on the pitfalls in homeownership.
 But officials with urban housing groups say that in the Poconos little was done to help novice buyers avoid mistakes. 
 Local lenders who dodged the foreclosure mess say they did so by knowing the market and players on intimate terms. They also handle the loan work themselves from the moment buyers walk into their banks. 
 As a result, two of Monroe County's eight local lenders say they have no foreclosures at all. Five have averaged three filings a year, county records show. And the largest, ESSA Bank and Trust, which has made 3,500 loans there since 1997, says it has foreclosed on 60 homes, well below the national foreclosure rate.
 By contrast, 50 of the 377 Pocono homebuyers who used Chase have lost their homes to foreclosure, and to prevent even more failures, the bank has taken the extraordinary step of forgiving $6 million in debt owed by 210 of its homebuyers.
 Some of Chase's loan practices differed markedly from those of local lenders.
 Chase ran its Pocono venture from a regional office in Independence, Ohio, whose manager, William K. Spaner, has said in legal proceedings that he never visited the region or met Mr. Percudani. Chase then farmed out much of the work that borrowers had expected the bank to perform.
 For starters, Chase paid Mr. Percudani's mortgage concern to be its broker in the Poconos, which put him in charge of hiring the appraiser who is supposed to independently assess a home's true value.
 Larger banks commonly assign this task to their mortgage brokers in a process that in recent years has come under criticism by some experts and institutions in the industry. More than 7,000 appraisers nationwide have signed a petition saying they felt pressured to produce inflated evaluations in part because of who was hiring them.
 But lending experts say that such pressure is even greater in situations where builders, like Mr. Percudani, create their own loan brokerage units, which they are increasingly doing, with appraisers feeling they must come up with the price that the builder wants.
 ''That's a major, big-time, red flag conflict of interest and a very high risk loan,'' said Connie Wilson of AppIntell, a consulting firm that helps lenders avoid problem loans. 
 Banking guidelines do not require lenders to take special precautions in such situations. But, Robert Cook, a special counsel with the Federal Reserve Board, says such arrangements make it imperative that lenders ''ensure the appraisals are accurate.''
 As it turned out, the appraiser Mr. Percudani used most often, Dominick Stranieri, surrendered his license in 2002 to settle an unrelated case in which the state alleged that he overvalued homes by using an improper method. Mr. Stranieri has said in legal proceedings that he acted independently in valuing Mr. Percudani's homes and was not asked to meet a predetermined price.
 Chase says that for much of its Pocono venture it had Mr. Stranieri on an internal watch list, and that it returned him to good standing in 1999 because there were no further concerns about his work. But on three occasions starting in April 1998, Chase consultants who reviewed homes appraised by Mr. Stranieri concluded that he overpriced them by as much as 50 percent, according to interviews and records. 
 One appraiser's report in 1999 even warned that federal officials were seizing industry records to investigate widespread overpricing. Chase says the loan officer who got this report handled refinancing and did not alert Mr. Spaner's office, where new loans were being made.
 Just how much profit Mr. Percudani built into his prices is not clear. While builders typically make $7,500 to $15,000 on homes that sell for $150,000, he cited figures in the lawsuit with his partner indicating that they made roughly $62,000 on each of the 150 homes they sold in 1994 and 1995.
 Some parcels of land by themselves had drastic appreciations. For example, Mr. Percudani charged Mr. Vazquez $27,000 for a third of an acre that he bought not quite six months earlier for $5,300, according to county title records. 
 Mr. Percudani's lawyers said his profits were more typically in line with the industry and that the land prices included marketing costs. Numerous buyers, they added, have been able to borrow more money on their homes, which shows, they say, that those homes were fairly priced.
 But many homeowners like Ms. Davis tried to refinance their homes only to learn with a shock that they were worth far less than they thought. Ms. Davis's problems began when she needed a new appraisal to get a lower interest rate. 
 The first two appraisers she called said that her $143,653 house was actually worth $90,000 or less. A third flatly refused to come out when he learned where she lived.
 Chuckling, he told her, ''Lady, you're not going to be able to refinance.''

Still More Adversity
 One man who worked with Mr. Percudani says he saw even worse trouble ahead for many of the Pocono buyers. 
 Elwood Kurtz, the owner of Homestead Land Services, had been retained by Mr. Percudani to validate property records. But as he sat with buyers in closing their deals, Mr. Kurtz says he worried that they could not afford the homes -- no matter how fairly priced they were.
 ''I really felt that a majority of them were getting in over their heads,'' he said. ''They had to fit into their budgets the cost of commuting, food, taxes, and it seemed like $10 one way or another would make it or break it for them.'' Mr. Kurtz said he reported this and other concerns to state officials in 1996 and never heard back.
 In one sense, Mr. Percudani may have been doing just what the government wanted him to do: help people buy their first homes. He had a credit service through which he would pay their delinquent bills. He had a savings plan to help them accumulate the necessary down payment. He was infinitely patient, coding their accounts with a medals system based on how fast they could save -- ranging from platinum for those who were ready at once to bronze for those needing as long as two years.
 Mr. Percudani also typically paid several thousand dollars of the buyers' closing costs and even covered their rent while their homes were built. ''Gene was ahead of the curve in the United States, and it's only in the last couple or three years that other institutions have encouraged this,'' his lawyer, Mr. Preate, said.
 Chase says Mr. Percudani did not tell it about the rent payments, which in effect subsidized the buyers' down payment. This would have increased its risk since lenders view the down payment as a key measure of the borrower's ability to repay. ''If Chase had known about the builder's separate side agreements, Chase never would have approved these loans, as they were a violation of our underwriting standards,'' said Charlotte Gilbert-Biro, a Chase spokeswoman.
 Mr. Percudani's lawyers scoff at Chase's assertion, saying the rental payment was featured in his advertisements and that all lenders take pains to verify that down payments really come from the borrowers and not from a relative or the seller.
 But whatever the truth, the people who did this verification work under contract for Chase say they were hampered in several ways. They say Chase did not tell them that Mr. Percudani, the loan broker, had also built the homes, so they were not especially cautious in their reviews.
 Two such reviewers, known as underwriters, also say they were blocked at times from obtaining the bank statements they needed to trace the down payments. Lynda Davis, who underwrote the bulk of the Pocono loans, says that she told a Pennsylvania grand jury in 2003 that Mr. Percudani's loan brokerage unit would refuse on occasion to forward the statements, and that when this happened Mr. Spaner, the Chase manager, instructed her to rely instead on a ledger provided by the brokerage unit, which did not reveal the rent subsidy. ''I went along with it because I felt it was on Chase's head. He told me it was O.K. with Chase,'' Ms. Davis said she told the grand jury.
 Reached at his office, Mr. Spaner said he wanted to discuss the Pocono loans but needed permission from Chase. Chase officials declined to make Mr. Spaner available but said he denied the underwriters' assertions. ''Chase has not seen a shred of credible information to support any of these allegations,'' Ms. Gilbert-Biro said.
 In interviews and written statements, Chase officials defended their lending methods. They said they used the best available systems to detect problem loans and were continuously making improvements. For instance, Chase now requires two appraisals on Pocono properties.
 Chase said that it had successful relationships with other builders who acted as their own mortgage brokers and that it had confidence in its wholesale lending operations. ''One of the things we pride ourselves on is our nationwide capabilities and our local execution,'' the bank said.
 Chase further said that its share of foreclosure proceedings in Monroe County was at most 7 percent, and that numerous other lenders were caught up in the debacle.
 As it turned out, Chase almost dodged the pain. 
 The bank regularly sold its Pocono loans to Freddie Mac, the government-backed securities giant that is under its own federal pressure to increase minority lending. But the agency, whose own appraisal reviews were finding numerous instances of overpricing, eventually got cold feet. In the fall of 2000, Freddie Mac told Chase it was investigating. Chase then halted its dealings with Mr. Percudani. And, in a rare move, Freddie Mac asked the bank in 2002 to take back the Pocono loans.

Inquiries Into a 'Nightmare'
 By the late 1990's, things were so bad that the county sheriff was pleading for more staffing to handle the foreclosures, which swelled to 941 last year from 385 in 1995.
 The county controller, Kelly Lewis, dubbed the issue a ''nightmare'' for home buyers in his winning campaign for the state legislature. In April 2001, a local newspaper, The Pocono Record, published a series of articles detailing the buyers' woes. ''For the next week, all I did was answer phone calls and e-mails from people who said they had been victimized,'' the reporter, Matt Birkbeck, said.
 But drawing attention to the problems and doing something about them were two different things. The following month, a dozen law enforcement officials met privately in the Monroe County Courthouse to find a solution, but little came out of the meeting. 
 The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development determined that few of the loans involved its programs.
 The United States attorney for middle Pennsylvania decided against pursuing criminal action against Mr. Percudani, citing, in part, Chase's reluctance to pursue the matter. ''According to Chase's counsel, this whole episode has been a public relations nightmare, and they do not want to publicize this matter any further,'' an assistant United States attorney, Bruce Brandler, wrote in an Aug. 18, 2003, letter to state officials obtained by The New York Times. Chase says it told Mr. Brandler that it would cooperate.
 The Monroe County district attorney's office began an investigation that distilled more than 200 interviews into a scathing report on possible price gouging, coercion and tax evasion by developers, brokers and real estate lawyers. A mortgage broker was charged with fraud in connection with arranging a loan. But the district attorney, Mark Pazuhanich, opted against pursuing more cases by citing his limited resources and a warning by the local court that its judges had too many conflicting interests to preside over the matter.
 Mr. Pazuhanich had his own conflicts, he said in a 2002 letter asking the state attorney general to take over the case. Mr. Percudani and another developer under scrutiny had been major contributors to his most recent election campaign, the committee for which included the father-in-law of Mr. Stranieri, the appraiser who worked with Mr. Percudani. According to Mr. Percudani's lawyers, Mr. Pazuhanich and two assistants also had rented Mr. Percudani's vacation home on St. Martin in the Caribbean several years before he began the investigation. After bowing out of the inquiry, Mr. Pazuhanich ran for a judgeship and placed his campaign signs on Mr. Percudani's land. 
 Finally, in 2002, home buyers felt some progress was being made when the state attorney general filed the first of two civil suits against 26 local builders, appraisers and mortgage concerns, including Mr. Percudani and Mr. Stranieri, alleging deceptive practices that misled buyers and lenders. Mr. Percudani and Mr. Stranieri have denied the allegations, their lawyers said. Mr. Percudani continues to build and sell homes in the Poconos.
 Several buyers including the Vazquezes have sued Chase, saying the bank conspired with Mr. Percudani to defraud them. Chase denies the allegations and says it will vigorously defend itself. Jim Sysko, a deputy state attorney general, says he accepted Chase's contention it was deceived on the rent payments, but was weighing the bank's overall role when Chase offered to help the buyers by reducing their mortgages.
 Frustrated by the events, buyers have picketed the Monroe courthouse, the statehouse in Harrisburg and even the F.B.I. headquarters in Washington.
 ''It's like the Wild West out here,'' said Al Wilson, the founder of the Pennsylvania Homeowners Defense Association, an advocacy group. He added, ''No one is being held accountable.''

A Chance of More Poconos
 In some ways, the Poconos is a place apart, where a combination of lax regulation, a history of corruption and a huge market in New York were the perfect ingredients for a financial storm.
 But few doubt that what happened here has the potential to happen elsewhere. 
 For all the attention paid to the national homeownership rate, little is known about the hundreds of thousands of buyers who fail each year. Lenders decline to say how many are minorities or first-time buyers, but early last year the foreclosure rate passed 1.1 percent, or roughly 560,000 homes, compared with a rate of 0.86 percent in 1995 when the homeownership campaign began. 
 George McCarthy, a housing economist at the Ford Foundation, says the easier credit unleashed by the homeownership drive has exposed vulnerable buyers to fraud and excessive debt. Already, the F.B.I.'s caseload of 500 mortgage fraud investigations is up fivefold since 1997.
 ''The risk of more Poconos is huge,'' Dr. McCarthy said. ''In every affordable market in the country we are seeing these fast run-ups in prices, double-digit appreciation, and the problem is that people who are not well versed and able to tell what the true value is can get hoodwinked.''
 Should housing prices drop, he says, the fallout may track the stock market scandals in which sundry accounting irregularities, ignored during the booming 1990's, were exposed. Prospective buyers should be warned that a house is an investment that can lose value, he and other housing experts say.
 Many people, no doubt, were helped by the homeownership drive, and in the Poconos there are many buyers who say they are pleased with their homes and the move. There is also hope that a rising market will compensate for any overpricing.
 Still, Marc Weiss, who helped shape the Clinton administration's homebuyer campaign, says the program did not have enough safeguards to protect first-time homebuyers. ''We were so focused on expanding homeownership that we probably didn't put enough attention with our private sector partners on what is needed to help people from getting in trouble,'' he said. Now, those in trouble are trying to get out.
 The Vazquezes moved into their Pocono home. Had a son. Made it through job losses and unemployment. But only by getting deeper in debt did they ward off two foreclosure actions.
 Then in October 2003, after suspending their payments to resolve the lawsuit against Chase, the bank brought its third foreclosure against them. ''There can't be words to describe the tears I cried, losing my home and having to be an embarrassment for my family,'' Mrs. Vazquez said.
 Ms. Walton never even made it to the Poconos. She was paying into the credit counseling and savings plan when Mr. Percudani suspended it. The family adores the game Monopoly, and now has a running joke that it is the only way they will ever buy a home. Better to laugh than cry, Ms. Walton said.
 ''We're pretty much living hand to mouth now,'' she said. ''It was a big letdown for the boys. It's like being told you can have a puppy, petting it, and then never being given it.''
 As for Ms. Davis, it is difficult to pinpoint, she says, just what sent her over the edge. There was the $3,000 in annual school and property taxes, a $3,600 yearly heating bill, and $500 in homeowners' association dues, which she says she had not expected.
 Soon after Christmas of 2000, her husband announced that he would stay in New York. The talked-about train to New York City had never materialized. The traffic tie-ups were endless. ''All you talk about is bills, bills, bills,'' she recalled him saying.
 Their divorce left Lasscelles alone in the house all week and Ms. Davis wracked with guilt as she stayed in New York weeknights to save the bus fare. She did not dare tell anyone and slept with her cellphone on her pillow. On weekends, she would return home and pack. For months, they lived frozen lives with boxes filling every room. As much as homelessness, Ms. Davis was terrified by the shame of forcible eviction, but she eventually abandoned the Poconos altogether for a rental back in Brooklyn.
 On March 24, Chase won a foreclosure judgment against her, the penultimate step before it can sell her house. 
 She recently went to her local bank for a credit card. She had no luck. But she got friendly with the woman who took her application. They talked about real estate and the woman excitedly told her about having just signed for a new home in the Poconos.
 ''And the best thing about it,'' the woman told her, ''is that there's a train coming.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Delgados pack up before their eviction from their Poconos home. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
LITTLE CONSOLATION -- Lewis Delgado with his three sons last month, set to leave their home in Tobyhanna, Pa., before the sheriff came to serve eviction papers. The Delgados rented in Queens before moving to the Poconos five years ago.
ONLY MEMORIES -- Ethel Davis, with a photo of her old home, is back to renting.
A WISH -- ''I wanted to be the first in my family to actually own a home,'' said Joane Walton, with her husband, Edgar Rodriguez, and their children by their Bronx apartment. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 34)
FRUSTRATION -- Al Wilson, founder of the Pennsylvania Homeowners Defense Association, led a protest last November at the Monroe County Courthouse in Stroudsburg, Pa. Home buyers have also picketed the statehouse in Harrisburg and F.B.I. headquarters.
ATTRACTING BUYERS -- Gene P. Percudani, a home builder in the Poconos, ran television ads in New York that asked people, ''Why Rent?'' A similar ad adorned a train bridge in Mount Pocono, Pa. Mr. Percudani gained a reputation as a prolific builder. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 35)Chart: ''A National Trend, a Local Crisis''Increasing foreclosures are not unique to the Poconos. As public and private incentives for home buying have pushed up the homeownership rate, foreclosures have also surged. Questionable business practices have made the Poconos an extreme example.As homeownership rates have risen . . .Graph tracks year-over-year percentage-point change in U.S. homeownership rate, quarterly data from 1980 through 2003.. . . foreclosures have also surged.Graph tracks percentage of homes in foreclosure, quarterly data from 1980 through 2003.The Poconos have been hit hard.Graph tracks number of foreclosures in Monroe County, Pennsylvania* from 1995 through 2003.*Figures reflect all initial foreclosure filings
not all result in eviction. Single family homes account for an estimated 91 percent of the foreclosure filings.(Sources by U.S. Census Bureau
Mortgage Bankers Association
Monroe County Prothonotory
 The Reinvestment Fund)(pg. 35)Map of Pennsylvania highlighting the location of Monroe County and the Poconos. (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); COUNTIES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); CENSUS (50%) Housing; Foreclosures; Mortgages; Surveys and Series; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Housing; Frauds and Swindling

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Michael Moss; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) Pennsylvania; Pocono Mountains (Pa); Monroe County (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



267 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; Investing

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Big Rally Fattening Portfolios

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
IT'S different this time, or so say mutual fund managers who invest in Russia. 
 The latest Russian stock market boom will not be followed by yet another bust, they add, at least not as long as oil prices remain high and the economy is robust. 
 ''I don't think it's a bubble,'' said John Connor of the Third Millennium Russia mutual fund, part of the World Funds family; the fund gained 31.6 percent in the first quarter. ''We have a few years left to go.'' 
 In 1998, Russia rocked the financial world by defaulting on its debt and devaluing the ruble. Hedge funds and mutual funds investing in emerging-market debt went into a tailspin, including Long-Term Capital Management, which booked such huge losses that its problems threatened the United States financial system.
 But Russia's stock market has recovered that lost ground, and this year is even setting records. From the post-crisis lows of around 40 in 1998, Russia's main stock index, the RTS, surged to 752.66 by March 31 this year. For the first three months of 2004 alone, the index gained 32.7 percent. 
 The rally has some solid underpinnings. Russia's economy has reversed its slide and has grown for four consecutive years, and consumer products like cellphones have become increasingly common. Inflation is under control, and the government budget of President Vladimir V. Putin, who was elected to a second four-year term on March 14, has a surplus. The Central Bank of Russia recently reported nearly $80 billion in hard currency reserves. 
 Still, a main driver of the Russian rally is high oil prices, which have brought windfalls for the Russian oil companies that dominate the RTS index.
 ''It's the troika of energy prices, growth in mobile telephone subscribers and the re-election of Putin'' that has fueled gains, said Soeren Rytoft, lead strategist at Metzler/Payden Investment Advisors. 
 He and Markus Bruck, senior portfolio manager and lead manager of the Metzler/Payden European Emerging Markets fund, say the Russian market is still cheap compared with other emerging markets. Russia's stock market trades at 8 to 9 times earnings. The historical average multiple for emerging markets is 6.5, Mr. Rytoft said. In Europe, the historical average multiple is 15 to 20 and for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, it is 17 to 19, he added.
 He forecasts growth in the gross domestic product of 5 to 6 percent in 2004 and 4.5 percent in 2005, compared with 7.2 percent in 2003. ''Western countries are longing for that kind of growth, and for that investors will pay a high price,'' Mr. Rytoft said. ''We've seen bubbles a few times in the Russian stock market. But in my mind there's a difference this time because of high energy prices. If that trend stays, you'll see more performance out of Russia.''
 Among the fund's holdings are Lukoil, the oil producer, and Vimpel Communications, the cellphone company. The fund gained 21.2 percent in the quarter and 84 percent in the 12 months through March. 
 The extraordinary performance of Russia funds may be a cause for concern, said Bill Rocco, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. ''Emerging markets in general have done better than developed markets for several years now, he said. ''But these are incredibly risky funds. You can lose a ton of money -- quickly. Most investors should not own a Russia fund, and those that want to shouldn't buy one now. The very fact that Russia has had such a run-up means there's more risk rather than less.'' 
 Mr. Connor of World Funds said that some old risks still haunted the Russian investment landscape. ''Russia has some vulnerability,'' he said. ''The banking system is just beginning, and that means commercial banking is anemic.'' But he added that he thinks the stock market is still solid.
 Mr. Connor's largest holdings include Lukoil; Gazprom, the natural-gas company; Severstal, a Russian steel maker that just acquired Rouge Steel in Detroit; and Norilsk Nickel, the metals giant. He limits most of his positions to 2 to 3 percent of the fund, which ranks among the top performers for European stock funds. 
 MR. CONNOR and other managers say Russia's economy is no longer undermined by shaky and mounting debt. Instead, they say, there is real growth, along with positive government fiscal and current accounts.
 The price of Russia's Urals crude oil has been breaking records and is now around $30 a barrel. But if the prices of oil and other raw materials that are central to Russia's prosperity start falling, all bets are off, several fund managers said. 
 Another risk is that Russian companies do not uniformly practice good corporate governance, though investors regularly single out Vimpel Communications, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange, as a company with good governance that recognizes shareholder rights.
 Julian Mayo, co-manager of the U.S. Global Investors Eastern European fund, who advises the fund from his office at Charlemagne Capital in London, says he has lightened up on oil companies. ''Russian oil stocks are not as undervalued as some others,'' he said. ''Earnings have been bolstered by oil prices, but the stocks aren't as compelling or attractive as mobile phone companies and others.'' 
 His fund's largest Russia holdings include Norilsk Nickel; Gazprom; Sberbank, a government-owned savings bank; and Vimpel Communications. ''Our view is that Russia is not a bubble,'' Mr. Mayo said. ''The definition of a bubble is where valuations are overstretched. Certainly that's not where we see Russia at the moment.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Connor, manager of the Third Millennium Russia fund, which gained 31.6 percent in the first quarter, says of the current stock market boom, ''I don't think it's a bubble.'' (Photo by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)
 A Lukoil customer at a station in Moscow. High oil prices have been strengthening the Russian economy. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); DEVALUATION (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK OF RUSSIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



268 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; Business

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Having Their S.U.V.'s and Converting Them, Too

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

 BODY:
KEVIN RICHARDSON, who at 32 is the oldest member of the Backstreet Boys, took delivery last week of his 2004 GMC Yukon sport utility vehicle. He raves about its ''F.B.I. look'' -- all black and chromeless, with lacquered wheel rims -- and the 5.3-liter V-8 engine that puts close to 300 horsepower under the hood.
 And he dreams of ordering a customized license plate for this, his perfect Hollywood ride. It would read ''CLEAN.'' 
 That may sound as contradictory as Mr. Richardson himself -- an avowed environmentalist with an ungreen hankering for big, powerful cars -- but, in fact, he is spending more than $10,000 to convert the Yukon to run on compressed natural gas, a domestically produced fuel that is less polluting than gasoline. The conversion will include the installation in his garage of a refueling system, which will let him fill up the Yukon by using the same gas line that supplies his house. 
 To do the conversion, he has hired Evo Transportation, a company started by two former entertainment industry executives, David Young and Seth Seaberg. 
 The two men, who had virtually no automotive experience but a lot of Hollywood connections, have built a bustling business in Los Angeles by offering environmentally friendly but cool rides. Their Evo boutique limo service features three black S.U.V.'s much like Mr. Richardson's. The vehicles also have Game Boy consoles and minibars stocked with organic goodies like soy-based vodkas and soft drinks made from green tea. Celebrities like Cameron Diaz and Woody Harrelson are regular customers.
 ''We figured, 'Why should people compromise?''' said Mr. Seaberg, who before founding Evo with Mr. Young was chief executive of Ray Gun Publishing, which publishes the magazine Bikini. (Mr. Young ran Bliss Artist Management, which managed rock bands.)
 Unlike cars powered by electricity, a vehicle fueled by natural gas has the same power and performance -- and can carry the same weight -- as an identical vehicle fueled by gasoline. ''You actually can get all the luxury of a big S.U.V. with none of the guilt,'' Mr. Seaberg said.
 Now Evo is ramping up its next and potentially far bigger business: converting S.U.V.'s for Hollywood's elite -- and anyone else with $10,000 or more to spend --as well as converting smaller vehicles like General Motors' new Chevrolet Colorado pickup for corporate and municipal fleets. Their municipal customers already include the City of Santa Monica and Los Angeles County.
 As traditional automakers continue bickering over the future of hybrids and hydrogen, Evo is offering consumers alternate-fuel versions of the vehicles they want to drive right now.
 The limo service will expand, but its founders say it was just a start toward creating a company based on the idea of alternative fuels. ''The limo business was a scaleable business and got us good cash flows pretty quickly,'' Mr. Young said. The service started in April 2003 and became profitable in the first quarter of 2004, and the two men say they expect to have $2 million in revenue this year.
 A ride in an Evo limos costs $75 an hour, with a two-hour minimum. The company said it logged 2,000 hours of service last year, 60 percent of them for hauling celebrities to events like the Academy Awards or Emmy Awards ceremonies. More important, Mr. Young said, the limo service brought the vehicles to the attention of the very customers who were likely to buy an S.U.V. conversion.
 Evo has received $500,000 in venture capital to expand its limo fleet into other California cities. And more celebrities are expressing interest in conversions. Brad Pitt requested a proposal for a conversion after he rode in an Evo limo to a pre-Oscars party. 
 As for Mr. Richardson, he said he saw his first Evo S.U.V. in May 2003, when he showed up at a forum for the Natural Resources Defense Council featuring Arianna Huffington, the syndicated columnist, who has been pressing Detroit automakers to make more fuel-efficient cars. The topic that day was ''Breaking the Chain of Oil Dependency.'' Mr. Richardson showed up in a gas-guzzling Mercedes CL500 sports car that gets about 16 miles to the gallon.
 ''I was looking for some place to hide my ride when I saw this S.U.V.,'' Mr. Richardson said. The converted Evo S.U.V.'s have labels saying, ''powered by clean natural gas.''
 ''I didn't want to be a hypocrite anymore,'' said Mr. Richardson, who operates an environmental foundation called Just Within Reach. ''I want to walk the walk if I'm going to talk the talk.'' He sought out the S.U.V.'s owners, and Mr. Seaberg let him take the vehicle for a drive after the meeting.
 In addition to spreading the word at environmental events, the Evo founders have hired several drivers with M.B.A.'s who serve as business development employees when they are not on the road.
 In effect, the drivers are missionaries for the Evo brand. Jacob Ryan, who drives for Evo and holds an M.B.A. from Schiller International University in Madrid, can reel off a host of facts and figures about Evo-mobiles. They have a range of about 175 miles on a fill-up. The gas is stored in several high-pressure tanks under the rear of the vehicle. It takes about the same time to refill the high-pressure tanks with compressed natural gas as it does to fill up a conventional tank at a gas station. 
 And natural gas is cheaper than gasoline. ''It's $1.39 per equivalent gallon at a lot of stations, but if you go the airport it's 30 cents cheaper and there's no line,'' in contrast to the usual queue at regular gas stations, Mr. Ryan said. That compares with more than $2 a gallon for regular gasoline throughout much of California. ''And it has 90 percent less emissions than regular gasoline engines,'' he added.
 Despite its recent successes, Evo, like other alternative-fuel companies, faces formidable challenges. Most notable is the continued emphasis of the auto industry and the federal government on hydrogen as the fuel of the future. Compressed natural gas, which has been used most extensively in corporate and municipal fleets, including thousands of buses around the country, has become a stepsister to what experts envision as a far more exciting transportation economy based on hydrogen fuel cells.
 NATURAL gas has been pumped from underground reservoirs for decades to heat homes and businesses. In the 1980's, the gas was commercialized as a transportation fuel by compressing it so it could be stored in portable tanks. Hydrogen fuel, by contrast, is made by the complex process of breaking apart molecules that contain hydrogen atoms. That is one reason experts say that compressed natural gas still has a future.
 ''We're driving down this hydrogen highway and that's hurting compressed natural gas,'' said Rebecca J. Royer, president of the Baytech Corporation, a manufacturer based in Los Altos, Calif., that provides Evo with conversion parts and does conversions for big corporate clients like United Parcel Service. ''Everybody is saying it's better to just wait for the hydrogen economy.''
 Evo also has to contend with the rapidly expanding popularity of the hybrid gas-electric vehicles, like the Prius. Evo said it planned to add a few Priuses to its limo fleet. Even S.U.V.'s will soon be available as hybrids, as Ford Motor and Toyota add them to their lineups this year. 
 It is also true that many gasoline-powered vehicles produce far lower emissions than they did in the 1980's, reducing one of the benefits of natural gas. ''The inherent advantages of natural gas have diminished in the past three or four years as superclean gasoline and diesels have come on the market because of tighter emissions regulations,'' said Tom Cackette, chief deputy executive director of the California Air Resources Board, which regulates emissions in the state. ''It's hard for natural gas to compete.''
 Still, Evo's founders appear undaunted. To the idea of a future fueled by hydrogen, they argue that compressed natural gas can be a helpful steppingstone. ''Right now, you have consumers who think hydrogen in a tank in their car is like riding with a bomb,'' Mr. Seaberg said. ''But storage of hydrogen and natural gas aren't that different. So if you get comfortable with one, you'll feel comfortable with the other one.''
 Mr. Richardson of the Backstreet Boys does not seem especially worried about fueling up next to his home. In fact, he says he is happy to have such a convenient refueling station, allowing him to get natural gas at a price equivalent to 80 cents a gallon of gasoline. The fuel system in his garage is ''the size of a small water cooler,'' he said, and the cost of the fuel he uses is added to his home gas bill. 
 Hybrids, meanwhile, still use gasoline, albeit in smaller quantities than a regular S.U.V. does. If gasoline becomes more and more expensive, even hybrid S.U.V.'s might be regarded as guzzlers. 
 Mr. Ryan, the Evo driver, said such issues could change the minds of even Hollywood's most vocal environmentalists. ''Now Arianna can finally ride in an S.U.V.,'' he joked as he waited to hear the name of his first celebrity passenger of the day. Alas, it was not Ms. Huffington.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin Richardson of the Backstreet Boys, at home in Hollywood Hills, Calif., used a compressed gas system to refuel an Evo limo. (Photographs by Marissa Roth for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (62%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Gas (Fuel); Limousines

COMPANY: RAY GUN PUBLISHING INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Evo Transportation

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (55%) David Youth; Seth Seaberg; Fara Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



269 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1; LIFE'S WORK

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Fine Line of Dressing With a Job in Mind

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin. 
This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
GERALDINE BRYANT was glad she had chosen the black tailored suit. The jacket and skirt fit as if they were made for her, she said, and the black and white silky blouse had a ruffle around the collar, the better to show off the simple pearl necklace and matching earrings. 
 Her other choice, she explained, had been a burgundy pantsuit, ''but that's not right for an interview,'' she had decided. She said she would wear it ''when I get the job.'' 
 What you wear to an interview sends a message as sure as the words on your resume, signaling the interviewer that you can fit into the world you are trying to join. Of course, tradition has it that you look far more starched and proper for an interview than you ever look in real life, and the trick is to dress the part, yet still feel somewhat like your true (and comfortable) self. 
 The women on ''The Apprentice'' learned about this fine line the hard way, when their ''down to here and up to there'' style brought a rebuke from (of all people) Donald Trump. Geraldine Bryant learned this from Dress for Success, a nonprofit organization that provides interview and work clothes, from suits to hose to jewelry, to women who cannot afford their own, and coaches them on how to act and what to say once they are dressed. 
 Ms. Bryant was one of more than 1,000 Dress for Success clients who gathered in a Manhattan hotel ballroom one recent morning for an invitation-only job fair. The applicants all wore outfits they had chosen from the organization's racks, and there was probably not a better-turned-out crowd anywhere in the city. 
 ''Everyone else picked black, too,'' Ms. Bryant noticed, scanning the prospective applicants waiting to speak to representatives of 27 potential employers, from New York Life to Starbucks. She played with the chenille scarf wrapped around her shoulders, a personal touch that she hoped would set her apart. ''You want to look respectable, but not boring,'' she said.
 A morning with Ms. Bryant shows her to be anything but boring. Her previous jobs were as a security guard and an airport luggage screener, but she has been unemployed since July 2002. She has been looking since then, she says, and last year she turned to the Bowery Mission Career Center for classes that would improve her typing skills. 
 She was offered a job there, as a part-time receptionist, and was introduced to a representative from Dress for Success. She attended the organization's classes, too, learning the dos and don'ts of interviews. (''Don't bring a child or friend along'' to the interview. ''Do ask for a business card so that you can send a short and prompt thank you note.'')
 Now Ms. Bryant is looking for a full-time job. At the Dress for Success job fair, she was chosen for a group interview with Dress Barn, the women's clothing chain. She sat in a circle with five other applicants, all in black, and listened as June Macleish, manager of the company's store on West 46th Street, explained that only part-time positions were open and that employees were expected to meet a $150-a-day sales quota. 
 ''What is your main job when you're in sales?'' Ms. Macleish asked. 
 ''To please the customer,'' Ms. Bryant said, ''assisting them with what's on sale, what's the latest fashion, helping them find the whole outfit, the suits, pants, scarves.''
 Donna Baccollo, a Dress Barn marketing manager who was taking notes at the side of the room, put an approving check next to Ms. Bryant's name. 
 Ms. Macleish described the job a bit more and then asked if there were any questions.
 Ms. Bryant remembered being taught that a memorable applicant always asks questions. ''I've noticed that at stores like the Gap, the salespeople have to wear Gap clothes,'' she said. ''Are we required to wear Dress Barn products?''
 There is a dress code, Ms. Macleish answered, as Ms. Baccollo added another check to Ms. Bryant's name. ''If not in Dress Barn clothing, then in Dress Barn-like clothing. And you do get a 30 percent discount.''
 The session ended, and another group of six stood waiting for their turn. Ms. Bryant shook both interviewers' hands and said she hoped to hear from them soon. When she left, hers was the only resume that Ms. Baccollo put on the call-back pile.
 ''She had a spark,'' Ms. Baccollo said. ''And I liked that she asked specific questions about the job.''
 Back in the ballroom, waiting to meet representatives from Loews Hotels, Ms. Bryant said she was disappointed that so many of the jobs being offered were part time, but she was pleased that the Dress Barn interview had gone ''pretty well.'' She was hoping for a call for a second interview, but if it came, she said, ''I'm not sure what I should wear.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); FINE JEWELRY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (62%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%) Apparel; Labor; Women

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Dress for Success (Orgn); Dress Barn Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (51%) Geraldine Bryant; Lisa Belkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



270 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Gauging the Worth Of the Chief Executive

 BODY:

To the Editor: It is hard to understand why the news media get so excited about compensation of corporate executives -- who, if successful, provide employment and benefits for thousands of people -- and yet do not express dismay over the outrageous amounts paid professional athletes or entertainers (''Is C.E.O. Pay Up or Down? Both.'' April 4).
 Why is David Letterman, for example, worth $33 million a year if the average chief executive at a large company makes $9.2 million? Is Alex Rodriguez of the New York Yankees worth more than twice what the average C.E.O. earns? 
 The ''runaway executive pay'' of our time is certainly matched by ''runaway celebrity pay,'' and the latter is far less justified in an economic sense.

Robert M. Coquillette
Lexington, Mass., April 4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (88%); CELEBRITIES (88%); BASEBALL (71%) News and News Media; Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Athletics and Sports; Entertainment

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (56%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (53%) robert m coquilette

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



271 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-11-04: ESSAY

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Diversity's False Solace

BYLINE: By Walter Benn Michaels. 
Walter Benn Michaels is professor of English at the University of Illinois, Chicago.

 BODY:
The university where I have taught for the last three years -- the University of Illinois, Chicago -- is a large, increasingly underfinanced public university. Our classrooms are overcrowded. Our physical plant is deteriorating. Many departments cannot afford to hire any new professors. 
 But as we, like other universities around the country, send out our final admissions letters this month, there is at least one bright spot, one area where we have done well and are poised to do even better. Seemingly every piece of literature that U.I.C. distributes about itself announces that we have been ''ranked among the Top 10 universities in the country for the diversity'' of ''our student body.'' And that diversity, the literature goes on to point out, ''is one of the greatest aspects of our campus.'' The bad news about our current condition is that you may be jammed into a classroom so full that you can't find a place to sit. But the good news is that 46 percent of the people jammed in there with you will be Caucasian, 21 percent will be Asian, 13 percent will be Hispanic and 9 percent will be African-American. 
 It is often said that Americans don't like to talk about race, but no remark is more false. The eagerness of other schools to produce their own versions of U.I.C.'s diversity figures makes it obvious that, in fact, we love to talk about race. And we not only talk about it, we also write books about it, we teach classes about it and we arrange our admissions policies to take it into account. 
 It is true, however, that we don't so much like to call it race. Students, faculty members and administrators often prefer to speak of their cultural identities. Unimpressed by the objection that -- speaking the same language, wearing the same clothes, reading the same books -- they all seem to me to belong to the same culture, my students speak proudly of their own cultures and respectfully of others'. Some might be taller than others, some might be smarter than others, some might be better-looking than others, but all belong to cultures, and all the cultures are worthy of respect. And that's the advantage of the idea of culture: it gives us a world of differences without inequality. 
 And the enthusiasm for such differences is widespread. When I asked a group of Harvard literature students about what distinguished them from a parallel group of literature students at U.I.C., they were prepared to acknowledge that the U.I.C. students might be even more diverse than they were, but they were unable to see the relevance of the fact that the U.I.C. group was also less wealthy. And this is equally true of the students at U.I.C. who identify themselves as black, white, Arab, Asian and Hispanic and not as poor or working class. After all, your ethnicity is something you can be proud of in a way that your poverty or even your wealth (since it's your parents' wealth) is not. 
 But the real value of diversity is not primarily in the contribution it makes to students' self-esteem. Its real value is in the contribution it makes to the collective fantasy that institutions ranging from U.I.C. to Harvard are meritocracies that reward individuals for their own efforts and abilities -- as opposed to rewarding them for the advantages of their birth. For if we find that the students at an elite university like Harvard or Yale are almost as diverse as the students at U.I.C., then we know that no student is being kept from a Harvard because of his or her culture. And white students can understand themselves to be there on merit because they didn't get there at the expense of black people.
 We are often reminded of how white our classrooms would look if we did away with affirmative action. But imagine what Harvard would look like if instead we replaced race-based affirmative action with a strong dose of class-based affirmative action. Ninety percent of the undergraduates come from families earning more than $42,000 a year (the median household income in the U.S.) -- and some 77 percent come from families with incomes of more than $80,000, although only about 20 percent of American households have incomes that high. If the income distribution at Harvard were made to look like the income distribution of the United States, some 57 percent of the displaced students would be rich, and most of them would be white. It's no wonder that many rich white kids and their parents seem to like diversity. Race-based affirmative action, from this standpoint, is a kind of collective bribe rich people pay themselves for ignoring economic inequality. The fact (and it is a fact) that it doesn't help to be white to get into Harvard replaces the much more fundamental fact that it does help to be rich and that it's virtually essential not to be poor. 
 Hence the irrelevance of Harvard's recent announcement that it won't ask parents who earn less than $40,000 a year to help pay for their children's education. While this is no doubt great news to those financially pressed students who have gone to great schools, taken college-prep courses and scored well on their SAT's, it's bound to seem a little beside the point to the great majority of the poor, since what's keeping them out of elite universities is not their inability to pay the bill but their inability to qualify for admission in the first place. 
 In the end, we like policies like affirmative action not so much because they solve the problem of racism but because they tell us that racism is the problem we need to solve. And the reason we like the problem of racism is that solving it just requires us to give up our prejudices, whereas solving the problem of economic inequality might require something more -- it might require us to give up our money. It's not surprising that universities of the upper middle class should want their students to feel comfortable. What is surprising is that diversity should have become the hallmark of liberalism.
 This, if you're on the right, is the gratifying thing about campus radicalism. When student and faculty activists struggle for cultural diversity, they are in large part battling over what skin color the rich kids should have. Diversity, like gout, is a rich people's problem. And it is also a rich people's solution. For as long as we're committed to thinking of difference as something that should be respected, we don't have to worry about it as something that should be eliminated. As long as we think that our best universities are fair if they are appropriately diverse, we don't have to worry that most people can't go to them, while others get to do so because they've had the good luck to be born into relatively wealthy families. In other words, as long as the left continues to worry about diversity, the right won't have to worry about inequality. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by C.J. Gunther/EPA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LITERATURE (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); RANKINGS (55%) Colleges and Universities; Affirmative Action; Admissions Standards

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: Walter Benn (Prof) Michaels

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



272 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 9; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-11-04

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Are the Kids All Right? 

BYLINE: By Ann Hulbert. 
Ann Hulbert is the author of ''Raising America: Experts, Parents and a Century of Advice About Children,'' which will be published in paperback this month.

 BODY:
It's 2004. Do you know how America's children are? Thanks to researchers from Duke University and the Foundation for Child Development, there is now a Child Well-Being Index (C.W.I.), according to which kids were faring 5 percent better as of 2003 than they were in 1975. 
 You may scratch your head. What about three decades of family instability, to say nothing of bullying, binge drinking, A.D.D. and obesity -- the epidemics we're warned about these days? Or perhaps you're puzzled that improvement has been so meager. After all, the mid-1970's were the dark days before car seats and bike helmets and scheduled activities. Back then, hapless parents couldn't even be relied on to wonder where their children were at 10 p.m. without a public service announcement to remind them. By contrast, vigilant adults in the new millennium are keeping ever closer tabs on kids -- a quest that has inspired a surge in tracking devices, from nanny cams to No Child Left Behind standards and now the latest macro-indicator, the C.W.I. 
 Unveiled at the Brookings Institution, the index was greeted as a notable innovation -- a bracing dose of empiricism on a topic, the condition of America's children, that generally invites impressionism and often a sense of fatalism. As the president of the Foundation for Child Development has put it, the C.W.I. aims to do for child well-being what the consumer price index (C.P.I.) and the G.N.P. do for economic health. The point is to quantify key quality-of-life issues and assess progress or problems by comparing the numbers over time. Ideally, such a cutting-edge index would help rescue the cause of children's welfare from pious rhetoric and make it an urgent national priority -- it's our progeny, stupid.
 In fact, this is hardly the first time child advocates have invoked hardheaded measurements to advance their mission. Back at the White House Conference on Standards of Child Welfare in 1919, the state-of-the-art tracking tool was the ''infant mortality thermometer,'' a Children's Bureau chart calling attention to the high rate in the United States. As President Roosevelt's 1940 child conference neared, one newspaper reported that ''I.Q.'s, dispositions, aptitudes, voice ranges, personality ratings, swimming scores, radio appearances and parents' incomes'' now filled up files. ''The question of today is,'' the dazed writer concluded, ''whither the figures? Can the files be indexed and keyed to a unifying purpose?'' 
 That's just what the inventors of the Child Well-Being Index aspire to do. The ''evidence-based composite measure of trends over time'' introduces a unifying figure into the recent explosion of youth well-being surveys. Yet when the Duke-led research team has toted up yearly values for 28 ''key indicators'' (from poverty rates to weekly religious attendance), grouped them into seven ''domains'' (from ''Safety/Behavioral Concerns'' to ''Place in Community''), then calculated values for each of those domains in each year and finally computed the average for every year, what have you got? 
 You have a number and a media-friendly acronym, to be sure, but you may not have a clear notion of whether kids are better or worse off. Because the index weights all the data and domains equally, there's a limit to how revealing, or reliable, the cumulative figure can be. How does the bad news (a rise in obesity, for example) stack up against the good news (a drop in juvenile crime and teenage pregnancy)? In calculating kids' overall welfare, should the domain of ''Emotional/Spiritual Well-Being'' (which plunged in the 1980's) be considered on a par with ''Material Well-Being'' (which has been gradually rising)? Never mind the theological debate; it's a methodological quandary: it's much harder to measure the former. Surveys that ask 12th graders to rate the importance of religion -- one of three indicators of ''Emotional/Spiritual Well-Being'' (along with church attendance and the suicide rate) -- aren't nearly as solid as figures on annual income. (And such data obviously don't tell you much about the souls and moods of, say, toddlers or preteenagers.) 
 Nor does the historical arc make progress easy to assess. Look at the nearly 30-year track of the graph -- shaped like a crooked smile -- and you see a clear dip through the 80's, hitting bottom in 1993, down 6 percent from 1975. So should we actually be hailing an 11 percent improvement over the past decade? The Washington Post was understandably diffident: a front-page headline announced ''Baby Steps Made in Well-Being of Children,'' and on the inside the tone was glummer: ''Measure of Child Well-Being Is Flat.''
 The surveyors themselves appear uncertain about whether it's better to accent the positive or stress the negative. Sputnik certainly revealed the galvanizing power of alarm about American children lagging behind. Ever since, the ''nation at risk'' message has accompanied countless youth-related initiatives. Yet dour warnings of decline can backfire, spreading discouragement. If ''the public looks at the condition of America's children largely through a negative lens,'' worries Child Trends, a leading child research organization, ''it may be more difficult to develop and support effective policies and programs that promote child well-being.'' 
 And Americans do indeed have a bleak outlook on children's plight -- unduly grim, according to a recent Child Trends poll. Roughly half of adults, for example, think 30 percent of kids live in poverty; 16 percent actually do. Only 5 percent of adults believe that violent crime among teenagers is down, when in fact it has plummeted. Yet the risk of playing up good news, of course, is that it may encourage complacency. 
 ''What gets measured, gets done'' is a saying in the indicator field. By that standard, the composite C.W.I., by measuring everything, is likely to do nothing -- unless it is to remind us, as children themselves do every day, that assessing and boosting their well-being is anything but an exact science. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Betty on her 1st through 12th birthdays, Sioux-City, Iowa'' (Photographer unknown/Fraenkel Gallery, San Francisco)Chart: ''THE DROPOUTS''Best and worst states to live in, based on percent of teenagers who were high-school dropouts in 2000.BestNorth Dakota: 4%Minnesota: 5%Hawaii: 6%Iowa: 6%Nebraska: 6%New Jersey: 6%WorstArizona: 17%Colorado: 14%Nevada: 14%Texas: 13%Kentucky: 12% From ''Kids Count 2003 Data Book''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (93%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); OBESITY (71%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); THERMAL SENSORS (67%); WRITERS (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%) Children and Youth ; Research

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%) Duke University; Foundation for Child Development

PERSON: Ann Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



273 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Private Sector

LENGTH: 1148 words

PERSON: Ronald L. Jamieson

HEADLINE: A Banker at Home in 2 Worlds

BYLINE: By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: Toronto 

 BODY:
A PROMINENT Canadian Mohawk chief once described Ronald L. Jamieson as having a moccasin in one community and a black dress shoe in another. 
 Mr. Jamieson is a Mohawk who lives on the Six Nations reserve west of Hamilton, Ontario, the steel-making center. His sister is the elected chief of the reserve. But Mr. Jamieson usually gets home only on weekends; during the week, he is at his desk at the Bank of Montreal in Toronto, where he is a senior vice president and in charge of the bank's aboriginal banking unit. 
 Canadian financial institutions are paying more attention to the nation's 980,000 native people, defined as North American Indians; Metis, or people of mixed blood; and Inuit, also known to Americans as Eskimos.
 With help from billions of dollars in land-claim settlements and joint ventures with established corporations, these groups are starting more businesses in Canada. According to Mr. Jamieson, the Bank of Montreal's loans-and-deposits business with native communities has shown ''double-digit compound growth, and we see this continuing.'' 
 Mr. Jamieson, 55, said there were many naysayers when he arrived at the Bank of Montreal in 1992 to set up its aboriginal unit. Many of Canada's 600 native communities are in remote areas, accessible only by plane or boat. Most are mired in poverty, with towering unemployment and wrenching social problems, including high rates of alcoholism and suicide. 
 Part of the job is dealing with outsiders' misperceptions. The stereotype ''of Indians being a lazy lot who can't look after their money just doesn't hold up,'' Mr. Jamieson said.
 Financial institutions face an obstacle in the form of the Indian Act, the law governing native communities and their relations with outsiders. Under the act, people living on reserves are not permitted to pledge their homes or other assets as collateral for loans. Furthermore, few native people are willing to incorporate their businesses because, under the law, they would lose their exemption from income taxes by doing so.
 But for Canada's big banks, these drawbacks are gradually being overshadowed by an awareness of the potential market. The native population grew 4.1 percent a year, on average, in the five years ending in 2001, five times the national average. More than two-thirds of native people now live outside reserves, and education and income levels are rising. 
 Several communities have also gained financial muscle as a result of payments by the federal government to settle claims over ancestral lands. These payments so far total 1.6 billion Canadian dollars ($1.2 billion) and have spawned a number of sizable businesses, including airlines, construction companies and hotels. 
 Brian Gibbings, an investment management consultant in Toronto whose clients include the Inuvialuit Regional Corporation of Inuvik in the Northwest Territories, said that aboriginal groups ''are much better advised now than 15 or 20 years ago.'' 
 ''They're a match for the banks and the oil companies when it comes to negotiating,'' Mr. Gibbings said.
 Typically, the land-claims settlements also grant communities a measure of self-government and part of the royalties from mines and oil and gas wells. Mining and energy companies operating in or near native communities are increasingly sourcing out work to local contractors. BHP Billiton Diamonds, which operates a large diamond mine in the Northwest Territories, estimates that it placed orders worth 123.6 million Canadian dollars with native businesses in 2002, an increase of almost 17 percent from the previous year. 
 Reflecting a more assertive approach among a new generation of leaders, Bernd Christmas, chief executive of the Membertou First Nation in Nova Scotia, said that ''the reliance on government dollars can't occur anymore.''
 ''We were once self-sufficient and self-governing, and there's no reason why we can't continue to do that in modern times,'' Mr. Christmas said. 
 The Membertou band employs 370 people in businesses that include fish processing, civil engineering and catering. The band has run a surplus on its budget since 1999. 
 Joseph Tokwiro Norton, grand chief of the Kahnawake band south of Montreal, said his community increasingly needed the banks and other financial institutions as partners for business projects, which include a company providing software for Internet gambling, a campus for technology businesses and plans for a port on the St. Lawrence River. 
 According to the latest national census, 27,000 businesses, 28 percent more than in 1996, were owned by native people in 2001. The number who were self-employed grew by 5.5 percent a year from 1998 to 2001, or 10 times the rate among other Canadians.
 Mr. Christmas said the Bank of Montreal was ''way ahead in the beginning'' in spotting the potential of the market. Mr. Jamieson, he said, ''explained to people how to bridge the gap between their communities and Bay Street,'' referring to Toronto's equivalent of Wall Street.
 Jocelyne Soulodre, president of the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business, which promotes greater involvement in the mainstream economy, said that the Bank of Montreal's commitment ''goes back to a time when it was fairly unusual.'' Mr. Jamieson, who is the council's co-chairman, ''saw this organization through some pretty rough times,'' Ms. Soulodre said. ''He stuck it out.''
 The bank, which is the smallest of Canada's big five banks and owns Harris Bank of Chicago, has opened 17 branches on Indian reserves. Sometimes, its chairman and chief executive, F. Anthony Comper, attends the opening ceremonies. 
 To overcome the Indian Act's ban on direct mortgage lending, the bank has negotiated deals with 19 communities for their band councils to act as its agents. As Mr. Jamieson describes the arrangement, the councils ''agree to assist us in collecting on our loans.'' 
 SO far, Mr. Jamieson said, the bank had advanced close to 50 million Canadian dollars in housing loans without one foreclosure. The proportion of write-offs on loans to native-owned businesses is less than half the bank's overall bad-debt record, he said.
 All of Canada's major banks, as well as Quebec's caisses populaires, or credit unions, now offer similar services through aboriginal banking divisions. The Toronto-Dominion Bank has set up a separate subsidiary, known as First Nations Bank of Canada, in partnership with the Federation of Saskatchewan Indian Nations. 
 In spite of the successes, Mr. Jamieson said that ''the reviews would be mixed'' on the record of aboriginal businesses. He said that many enterprises remained undercapitalized and that their owners were often disadvantaged by a lack of financial expertise and their remote locations. 
 True success, he said he told a former chairman of the bank, would come ''when you don't need Ron Jamieson here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald L. Jamieson is in charge of the aboriginal banking unit at the Bank of Montreal in Toronto. (Photo by Cylla von Tiedemann for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); AIRLINES (70%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (68%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (61%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (57%); INCOME TAX (50%) Banks and Banking; Biographical Information; Indians, American

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Montreal

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (95%); BMO (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (95%)

Ronald L Jamieson; Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (91%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Canada

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



274 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: In California, Wal-Mart Hits a Wall

 BODY:
The rapid proliferation of suburban big-box stores hit a pronounced bump when Wal-Mart failed in an aggressive effort to build at least 130,000 square feet to sell everything from clothing to car tires in suburban Los Angeles. The world's largest retailer spent $1 million on a ballot initiative and a charm offensive, but residents weren't buying.
 This was more than the familiar battle between superstores and Main Street shopkeepers fearful of competition. With superstores now ubiquitous, the corporations that build them have been grabbing for increasingly inappropriate parcels of land to continue their expansion. The results of the vote in Inglewood, Calif., a community of 113,000 mostly black and Hispanic residents, showed that a much broader slice of the community than the owners of mom-and-pop hardware stores disapproved. 
 Elected officials in Inglewood had already rejected Wal-Mart's overtures last year. The ballot initiative would have bypassed not only that decision but also any scrutiny of the effect a superstore may have had on the town. The chain dangled the promise of hundreds of jobs and help for a community in which many residents are unemployed and many more are underemployed. One-fifth live below the poverty line. That apparently did not allay concerns over increased traffic, the environment and Wal-Mart's low-wage, nonunion jobs.
 In many places, Wal-Mart workers are among the working poor. The company picks up health costs for fewer than half its employees nationwide, and those without other options -- like a spouse with an insurance plan -- may wind up depending on state-subsidized health programs or local emergency rooms. 
 Further, the entry of such an especially tight-fisted employer in a community compels competitors to whittle at their own labor costs. That translates into lost jobs and smaller paychecks for everyone. The recent long strike by California grocery workers had its roots in stores' fears they could eventually be put out of business by Wal-Mart ''supercenters,'' which also sell groceries.
 The Inglewood battle took on a moral as well as an economic tone. A coalition of business, union, religious and community leaders led the opposition, and residents voted against the store by a ratio of three to two. Wal-Mart has said it will press ahead with its larger plans to construct 40 supercenters around California. It may have to give up on Los Angeles, which may ban megastores. Other communities can also be expected to be emboldened by Wal-Mart's setback. In the end, people may love low prices, until they take a closer look at the real costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); BALLOTS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (64%); TIRES (57%); RELIGION (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Public Opinion; Election Issues; Editorials; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) California; Inglewood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



275 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; EXECUTIVE LIFE: THE BOSS

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: A Change of Scenery

BYLINE: By SAM GILLILAND; As told to Amy Zipkin.

 BODY:
MY given name is Michael. When my mother was pregnant with me, she called me Sam. The name stuck. Several months after I was born, my parents changed my birth certificate from Michael Ross to Michael Sam. I've been known as Sam ever since. 
 When I was growing up, my parents believed the outcome didn't matter as long as you did your best. I call it motivation with a slice of guilt. I lived in Northern California, in a town called Danville, and started swimming competitively at the age of 11. I was in the water five hours a day, swimming 8 to 10 miles a day. I swam for the local team at a pool near my house. I was a long-distance swimmer. My stroke was freestyle and my sweet spot was the 400 meters. And it was incredibly boring. To make swimming fun, we played water polo. 
 When it came time for college, I chose U.C.L.A. for the academics and water polo. We played all the California schools. I was having the time of my life. U.C.L.A. has a beautiful campus, and it is close to the beach. And on Fridays, the beach was a natural place to go. I was also a Los Angeles County lifeguard. I felt that I needed to get serious about life and that a clean break would help. 
 I decided to transfer to the University of Kansas. My parents farmed in Kansas right out of college. My dad later went to work for General Electric as an electrical engineer. My mother was a homemaker.
 I hopped off the plane and immediately had buyer's remorse. I had spent no time in Lawrence, Kan., in the middle of farmland. Now I was going to spend the next several years of my life here. It was a complete change of lifestyle.
 I switched my major from economics to electrical engineering, which also meant computers, and found a roommate. We started a company in our dorm room. We came up with the idea for a travel information company called Travelvision. This was in 1981. 
 We went down to the architecture school and contracted with a design student who built a seven-foot-tall kiosk. We placed the kiosks in three visitors' centers around the state. One was in the further reaches of Goodland, in the far western part of the state. The others were near Kansas City and Wichita. Each kiosk had a small keyboard, printer, map of the state, local weather and information about the closest city. We planned to sell advertising to hotels. 
 Selling the advertising was very tough going. These aren't huge travel or tourist destinations. But entrepreneurship was new and flourishing. I think the tourism directors found it refreshing to work with us. 
 We were out there buying I.B.M. P.C.'s and the latest technology. But our kiosk P.C. display had a keyboard and a printer that were not very advanced. We realized we needed to have something to cut the paper. We experimented with saw blades and razor blades, and ended up with a hacksaw blade that spanned the back of the kiosk. We easily spent 30 hours a week on the business, in addition to going to class. 
 I kept at it until a year after college, when the money ran out.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SAM GILLILAND -- President and chief executive of Sabre Holdings, the owner of Travelocity (Photo by Matt Rourke for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ENGINEERING (86%); BEACHES (75%); WATER POLO (75%); SWIMMING (75%); SPORTS (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (69%); LEISURE TRAVEL (66%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); TOURISM (60%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (83%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (54%) Sabre Holdings

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL S GILLILAND (92%); MIKE ROSS (91%) Amy Zipkin; Sam Gilliland

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (69%) KANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



276 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Maybe It's Time For Another New Deal

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
CAN the private sector generate enough jobs to return the United States to full employment? Or must government play a much greater supporting role in job creation?
 That question, once hotly debated, is barely mentioned today. It should be. For 30 years, the assumption has been that the private sector would generate full employment on its own. It has not, except for a five-year stretch in the late 1990's. Now the situation has become worse. Despite robust economic growth, the private sector is generating fewer jobs than ever in a recovery. 
 Never mind that private employers added 277,000 jobs in March. It was the biggest one-month gain in the two and a half years since the last recession. It was also somewhat of a mirage. Most of the 277,000 jobs were canceled out by a decline in total hours worked and total weekly pay. 
 ''The normal rule of thumb by which a certain increase in the gross domestic product would produce a concomitant increase in jobs does not appear to apply,'' Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, declared in a speech before the House last month. 
 The situation cries out for government job creation, Mr. Frank said in an interview last week. But public pressure is lacking. ''People have so attacked government,'' he said, ''that now when there is a need for it to help create jobs, they cannot recognize a positive role for government.'' 
 Such views are rare today. They are often dismissed as heresy. Among politicians they show up, when they show up at all, in the liberal wing of the Democratic Party. Mr. Frank is a member of that dwindling wing. John Kerry, the presidential candidate, is not. He is a centrist, in the Clinton mode. He counts on the private sector to generate full employment, with government playing a peripheral role, mainly in tax incentives that encourage companies to create more jobs. 
 After World War II, millions of Americans took for granted a robust government role in job creation. The Depression had amply demonstrated the private sector's failure and, with military spending winding down, there was widespread concern that corporate America could not generate enough jobs. The New Deal reflected that concern, and early drafts of the Employment Act of 1946 included clauses mandating government job creation through public spending -- in effect, supplementing insufficient demand for private-sector workers. 
 The Employment Act, as finally enacted, fell well short of making government the employer of last resort. But, as the economy boomed, who really noticed? The combination of private-sector hiring and huge government spending for the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the space program and the Interstate System of highways, among other things, created, de facto, a private-public partnership that generated nearly full employment. That generally means an unemployment rate below 5 percent and enough upward pressure on wages to prevent the income inequality that is now so glaring.
 When the postwar boom finally faded in the 1970's, some in Congress tried once again to make government the employer of last resort. That language was written into early drafts of the Humphrey-Hawkins Act of 1978. The attempt failed, even backfired. The final act gave equal billing to fighting inflation and to full employment. Soon the Federal Reserve was trading higher unemployment for less inflation. And, simultaneously, government was gaining a reputation as an obstacle to job creation.
 FREE markets work best when government stays in the background, encouraging the private sector through various supportive measures. President Bill Clinton made that claim and took credit for the full employment that finally reappeared in the late 1990's. President Bush has staked out roughly the same ground, although the job creation he promises as a result of his tax cuts has not occurred. It will, Mr. Kerry says, if we cancel the most egregious Bush tax cuts and substitute incentives that encourage corporate hiring.
 The public wonders. Years of layoffs, wage stagnation, outsourcing and now offshore contracting have made people skeptical. Mr. Frank plays to that skepticism. So do a few others, the most important being Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Democratic leader who in recent speeches appears to be trying to push his party back toward New Deal policies. The government job creation in his proposals would be coupled with much-needed public spending. 
 School and highway construction are examples. ''Every billion dollars invested in highway construction produces 47,500 jobs,'' the senator said in a speech. He added: ''We must create new and meaningful jobs for all Americans. And we must do this by recognizing once again that government -- an enlightened government -- has an extraordinary responsibility to assist in this task.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Barney Frank (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%); KOREAN WAR (61%); VIETNAM WAR (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%) Labor; Government Employees

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (87%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



277 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Mortgages: To Jumbo And Beyond

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
AS home prices have floated upward in the last decade, the dollar threshold for what are called jumbo mortgages has also risen, from $133,250 in 1986 to $333,700 this year. Such mortgages can carry a slightly higher interest rate than what are called conforming loans, those that meet the criteria for purchase by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
 But despite the increases in the threshold, the percentage of mortgages in the jumbo category, though it has declined in recent years, remains about what it was a decade ago, at 6.52 percent of all home loans in 2003, compared with 6.37 percent in 1993.
 The world of jumbo mortgages -- and of ''super jumbos,'' home loans that start at $650,000 and can go up to $10 million or more -- is a large one. The top five originators of jumbo mortgages issued loans worth almost $340 billion in 2003, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a newsletter for executives in the residential mortgage business. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage accounted for $93.4 billion; Washington Mutual was second with $84.8 billion; Chase Home Finance was third with $65.38 billion; Countrywide Financial was just behind, with $65 billion; and Bank of America was fifth with $30.69 billion. 
 The newsletter also estimates that in 2003 there was a total of $660 billion in jumbo loans, out of $3.76 trillion for the mortgage market as a whole. (A trillion is 1,000 billion.)
 While most borrowers have fixed-rate mortgages, individuals who take out jumbo loans are much more likely to get adjustable-rate mortgages, in which the rates can change over time, depending on benchmark loan rates. And the financial requirements of the banks extending jumbo loans can rise with the size of the mortgage.
 One attraction that applies to holders of both jumbo and conforming loans, however, perhaps especially at this time of year, is deductibility: interest payments are deductible from federal taxes, up to a limit of $1 million a year.
 In an era of intense demand for high-end properties in some markets, stratospheric numbers are not as rare as they used to be. Six days ago, Dr. Stephen B. Colvin, the chief of cardiovascular surgery at New York University Medical School, and his wife, Helane, closed on a $2,535,000 loan from the New York Mortgage Company in Manhattan to refinance their condominium on East End Avenue at the corner of 82nd Street and gain funds to complete an extensive renovation. The 2,600-square-foot apartment has three bedrooms, three baths, a large eat-in kitchen, floors made of marble and rare woods and an assortment of other exceptional details.
 When they bought the condominium about two years ago, Dr. Colvin said, the appraisal price was roughly $1.9 million and their mortgage from the Bank of New York was $1.5 million. But when the Colvins decided to undertake what the doctor described as ''a massive construction project,'' they contacted New York Mortgage and received a second-mortgage ''bridge loan'' of $500,000 to begin the renovations.
 Seeking to consolidate the loans and pay all the renovation costs, Dr. Colvin turned again to New York Mortgage. The company asked for two new appraisals. One put the value of the property at $3.9 million, the other at $4.2 million. New York Mortgage ended up lending $2,535,000. ''So we locked into an adjustable rate mortgage that started at about 3.7 percent for 10 years, but would never go above 10.5 percent,'' Dr. Colvin said. 
 Not surprisingly, the details of loans at this level may be different from those for jumbo mortgages that are just above the ceiling of conventional mortgages. According to Neil Bader, the branch manager of Wells Fargo Private Mortgage Bank responsible for the New York area, ''Jumbo loans over $333,700 don't necessarily require a larger down payment,'' than smaller loans. 
 Loans below $333,700 are usually underwritten to conform to the standards of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Congressionally chartered companies that purchase loans from banks and other originators, then package them with others and sell them to investors on what is called the secondary market. 
 The conforming loan limit used by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, explained David Broderer, a financial analyst with the Federal Housing Finance Board, which helps oversee the nation's mortgage system, is derived from an annual survey of actual house prices. These surveys, taken in October and released in November, chart the average home price associated with newly issued mortgages, which is compared with the average home price the previous October. The percentage change is calculated and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are responsible for using that percentage change to calculate the new conforming loan limit.
 FOR mortgages conforming to the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac standards, the down payment requirement is usually a minimum of 20 percent of the price of the home, and this standard often applies for loans in the low end of the jumbo category. ''But as the loan amount increases,'' Mr. Bader said, so could the percentage down payment requirements. ''At $500,000 it would ordinarily not require a larger down payment, but at $900,000 it might,'' Mr. Bader said. ''It varies from financial institution to institution.''
 Another difference, Mr. Bader noted, can be in the requirements for a borrower's monthly cash flow. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's standards ordinarily require that after closing the mortgage, the borrowers have enough for two months of ''PITI'' payments -- meaning principal, interest, taxes and insurance.
 As loans soar past the jumbo threshold, the guidelines can be significantly more rigorous. For example, a home mortgage over $1 million could require post-closing liquidity -- meaning cash and investments that can easily be sold-- of more than 50 percent of the borrower's annual income. 
 One reason for the continuing demand for jumbo mortgages in the New York City area is that housing prices continue to soar. ''House prices are so insane,'' said James C. Maloney, who together with his brother Christopher originates mortgage loans for J. P. Morgan Chase in Melville, N.Y. Last year the brothers originated about 120 jumbos, sometimes, he said, for surprising amounts. ''For example,'' Mr. Maloney said, ''I sold clients a $3.2 million mortgage in the Hamptons, to buy a property valued at $5.6 million, and they're going to demolish and spend $1.5 million on construction.'' 
 Super jumbos are concentrated where there are lots of people with lots of money. New York City and the Hamptons are obvious strongholds. In other parts of the country, San Francisco and nearby Marin County, Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago and Boston are markets with many super jumbo loans. 
 While many super jumbo borrowers are obviously very well off, high net worth does not necessarily mean corresponding cash flow. ''Some people take larger loans,'' said Steven Schnall, the president and chief executive of the New York Mortgage Company, ''because they don't have sufficient liquidity to pay all cash.'' Or sometimes, he added, they might have appreciated assets that they don't want to liquidate because they would have to pay capital gains tax.
 Mr. Bader said that the rates on fixed-rate jumbo mortgages are often slightly higher than the prevailing rate for conventional mortgages -- usually a quarter to one-half of one percent higher. This is a consequence of the more limited secondary market for such loans, unlike the easily securitized conforming loans bought, combined with others and then sold to investors by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 While Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not, by definition, purchase jumbo loans from their originators, they do purchase a small number of adjustable-rate loans, known as ARM's. Such loans often have the same rate whether they are jumbos or conforming loans. That depends on market conditions. 
 Richard J. Russell, a mortgage broker and the president of Richland Equity Resources in Manhattan, said, ''I always insist that the consumer taking out a loan of $400,000 or more be sure to choose an ARM.'' Those products, he added, are available with a wide spectrum of conditions: mortgages whose rate is adjustable monthly, at one extreme, or ARM's with an initial rate frozen for three, five, seven or 10 years. Such loans are typically amortized over 30 years, and once the initial period stops, the consumer may want to convert to a fixed rate loan or keep the adjustable if the rates are favorable at the time. 
 Commenting on the pattern that a high proportion of people who take out jumbo loans opt for adjustable-rate rather than fixed-rate mortgages, Douglas Duncan, the chief economist of Freddie Mac, pointed to the balance of risk and reward -- and the ability of people with greater assets to take greater risks.
 ''The larger the loan at any given interest rate, the larger the payment,'' he said. ''ARM interest rates are typically lower than fixed interest rates.''
 ''People in the jumbo market tend to have more wealth and typically more income,'' Mr. Duncan said, ''therefore they can afford to take the risk that their monthly payment will rise if interest rates rise.'' 
 Harry Tomlinson, a senior vice president of Washington Mutual, said that people who borrow in the jumbo range tend to have significant assets, so they often are quite sophisticated about financial matters. ''Because of that, they tend to understand how low rates are now,'' he said. ''They can recognize that the difference between fixed rate mortgages and an adjustable can be two to three percentage points and over the course of the year could save them significant interest payments.'' 
 Mr. Schnall of the New York Mortgage Company said that 65 percent of its jumbos are ARM's, but they are not for everyone, especially those with incomes that would keep them out of the jumbo market. If someone making $50,000 to $75,000 a year takes out a mortgage that is adjustable and it goes up significantly over time, he said, ''that lower income borrower might not be able to afford the higher payment.'' He added, ''For that borrower, the fixed-rate mortgage provides a lot of security.''
 But, he pointed out, the borrower of a super jumbo might be spending a lower percentage of his or her income. 
 For example, Mr. Schnall said, ''the average borrower with an income of $75,000 a year, which amounts to $6,250 a month, spends roughly 30 percent of that. And if you make $2 million a year, you're probably not spending the same 30 percent.'' 
 ''If you were to borrow $600,000 over 30 years at 4 percent, your monthly payment would be $2,864.'' He added, ''With taxes, insurance and other home expenses, your monthly payment would be $3,564.'' To qualify to carry $3,564 in monthly housing expenses, the borrower would need to demonstrate earnings of approximately $129,600, less than a person who earns $2 million annually makes in a month. 
 Still, some people are borrowing more money than they may have believed possible -- and beyond what it is prudent for them to borrow -- according to Keith Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage publisher based in Pompton Plains, N.J. ''Those larger loan amounts may be the result of easier underwriting standards,'' he said. ''So because of market conditions, they may leverage themselves beyond what may have been typical in years past.'' 
 PART of the explanation is the historically low levels of interest rates. In Freddie Mac's Primary Market Survey for the week ended last Thursday, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 5.79 percent, with an average fee -- called ''points'' -- of 0.7 percent, up significantly from the previous week, when a mortgage averaged 5.52 percent. Last year at this time, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 5.85 percent.
 For the same period, the average for the 15-year fixed-rate mortgage was 5.12 percent, with an average 0.7 point, up from 4.84 percent the previous week. A year ago at this time, the 15-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 5.17 percent.
 Amy Crews Cutts, Freddie Mac's deputy chief economist, said in a statement Thursday that the rise in mortgage rates was related to changes in the bond market. ''The bond market reacted to the welcome news last Friday that jobs are finally being created, which is much needed for continued expansion of the economy,'' she said. 
 She added that the increase spurred speculation that the Federal Reserve Board would raise rates sooner rather than later. ''With that said,'' she went on, ''it should also be noted that long-term rates are not expected to rise precipitously and, in fact, we still expect the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage will average below 6 percent for 2004.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 11 about mortgages misstated the amount of interest on home loans that can be deducted on federal taxes. The $1 million maximum applies to the mortgage loan itself, not to the amount paid in interest on the loan. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen, Helane and Sean Isaiah Colvin in the living room of their apartment, now undergoing renovation.
 Steven Schnall, chief executive of New York Mortgage. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 2)Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)(pg. 1)Chart: ''The Persistence Of Jumbo Loans''The dollar ceiling of mortgages that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will purchase -- called conforming loans -- has risen sharply. Still, jumbo loans -- mortgages that exceed that threshold amount -- continue to be a significant proportion of the market.Graph tracks conforming loan limit from 1987 to 2003.Graph tracks jumbos as a percentage of all mortgages from 1987 to 2003.(Source by Federal Housing Finance Board)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Many Borrowers of Jumbos Take Adjustable Rates''Borrowers obtaining mortgages above the jumbo threshold, currently $333,700, are much more likely than those obtaining smaller loans to take adjustable-rate loans rather than fixed-rate mortgages.Graph tracks non-jumbo and jumbo thresholds from 1990 to 2003.(Source by Federal Housing Finance Board)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (87%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: Edwin Mcdowell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



278 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1977 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing, Turned Inside Out

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: Austin, Tex. 

 BODY:
WHEN word got out last spring that Microsoft was building a phone center in Bangalore, India, the 1,400 workers at the company's offices outside Dallas had reason to be concerned. After all, many of them spent their days doing the work planned for the Bangalore center: fielding calls from customers. Although Microsoft says the new Indian operation has not caused the loss of full-time jobs at that Texas customer support center, dozens of contract workers have been let go there. 
 About 200 miles down the highway, in Austin, a far different story was unfolding. In early May, Samsung, the highflying South Korean electronics conglomerate, announced plans to spend $500 million to expand its seven-year-old semiconductor plant a few miles north of the city and to hire up to 300 workers, bringing its total work force there to more than 1,000.
 Samsung's recent investment highlights the flip side of the outsourcing debate. Foreign direct investment, once an object of scorn, fear and recrimination in the United States, is increasingly regarded as a source of new jobs, production and exports. Such ''insourcing,'' as proponents have come to call it, suggests that free trade is not the one-way street that critics make it out to be. 
 Throughout the United States, from the high-tech corridor of central Texas to the automobile plants of the Deep South to the pharmaceutical laboratories scattered throughout New Jersey and Massachusetts, foreign companies are spending billions of dollars to build or expand operations. In the process, they are lifting local economies and offsetting some of the jobs being sent offshore by American companies.
 Proponents of free trade point to the near-record 6.4 million Americans who worked for foreign companies as of 2001, the last year for which complete figures were available. They also note that while more jobs are being outsourced than insourced, the number of new workers employed by foreign companies more than doubled during the 15 years ended in 2001. By comparison, the number that moved offshore -- roughly 10 million, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis -- grew by only 56 percent in the same period.
 ''The opponents of outsourcing take insourcing for granted,'' said Nancy McLernon, deputy director of the Organization for International Investment, a group representing foreign companies in the United States. ''In discussions on global trade, the spotlight usually is focused on those that are harmed by it, not those that benefit.'' 
 Not everyone agrees about the extent of those benefits. Some economists argue that more than 90 percent of those 6.4 million jobs were not so much created as acquired when foreign companies bought American businesses. For example, when Daimler-Benz of Germany took over Chrysler in 1998, Chrysler's 97,000 workers were reclassified as employees of a foreign subsidiary. 
 ROBERT SCOTT, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, said that after factoring in layoffs, foreign companies account for only about 25,000 new jobs a year. ''There's a lot of job destruction that goes on as well,'' Mr. Scott said. 
 Other economists say that many more jobs are created, and that insourced jobs tend to be higher-paying and more stable than the ones moving out of the country. Besides, they add, were it not for foreign companies buying American companies, many of those jobs would have vanished. 
 The last recession ''would have been much more painful without foreign direct investment,'' said Daniel Griswold, associate director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute in Washington. 
 In any event, the debate over insourcing helps recast one of the most divisive political issues of this election year. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, has promised to eliminate tax advantages that encourage American companies to move operations overseas. Yet many of the same tax benefits and free-trade agreements that prompted these companies to seek opportunity in China, India and elsewhere have also made it easier for foreign companies to invest in the United States.
 President Bush, eager to report good economic news, has pointed to the millions of workers employed by foreign companies as evidence that his free-trade agenda is paying dividends. Speaking in Cleveland last month, Mr. Bush praised the Honda Motor Company for employing 16,000 workers in Ohio. In a jab at Mr. Kerry, the president said, ''Economic isolationism would lead to retaliation from abroad, and put many of those jobs at risk.''
 Mr. Bush's nod to Honda was no accident. The United States lost factory jobs for 43 consecutive months through February, leading many policy makers to fret about the ''hollowing out'' of American industry. (The number was flat in March.) Yet one-third of Americans employed by foreign companies work in manufacturing. By comparison, manufacturing accounts for just one-sixth of employees at American companies. Foreign businesses also employ thousands of engineers, technicians and researchers in health care, technology and other industries.
 Politics aside, multinational companies, regardless of where they are based, turn to the United States to provide them with mobile, well-trained workers, strong universities, a vibrant and consumer-driven economy and stable legal and political systems. Those benefits far outweigh the relatively higher wages that American workers earn, executives and analysts said.
 For foreign companies, the biggest advantage of doing business in the United States ''is to be close to a huge market,'' said Robert B. Reich, the first secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, who now teaches social and economic policy at Brandeis University. ''There's a convergence between what foreign companies and U.S. companies want.''
 A closer look at Samsung's investment in Texas underscores how foreign companies can help anchor a local economy -- and why local governments are so eager to attract them.
 When it opened its semiconductor plant in the rolling hills and cow pastures north of Austin in 1996, Samsung was like Japanese carmakers, European drug makers and other foreign companies that have come to the United States: it wanted to be near its biggest customers and vendors, including Dell, I.B.M. and Applied Materials, a maker of semiconductor production equipment.
 By setting up shop in Texas, Samsung could also deflect criticism from protectionists who accuse foreign companies of dumping their chips on the market. It did not hurt that Austin and Travis County offered tax abatements worth nearly $13 million over six years.
 Hee Kyun Park, 53, the president of Samsung Austin Semiconductor, said he was less impressed with the tax relief, however, than he was with the fact that fire marshals were on call 24 hours a day during construction of the chip plant. That enabled Samsung to get the hundreds of necessary permits in a matter of hours, instead of days or weeks, and to begin production on schedule.
 Despite the uneven American economic recovery, Samsung says it has surpassed most of its targets for the plant. The company says it has doubled its monthly production in the last three years. It expects record sales of about $1 billion this year.
 Samsung, the world's largest producer of bulk memory chips, has also been a steady employer. Workers make $50,000 a year, on average, on par with wages at competitors. While Motorola, Advanced Micro Devices and others have cut thousands of jobs since 1998, Samsung has dismissed only a few dozen workers and continues to hire people who lost their jobs at rival companies. 
 ''Our people came from other semiconductor factories, and they have seen their old places disappear,'' said Mr. Park, 53, who earned his Ph.D. in engineering at North Carolina State University. ''Some employees told me their old places have become shopping malls.''
 Samsung also hires about 20 new college graduates a year as engineers and technicians. 
 Employees, particularly those who worked for competitors, have also been impressed with Samsung's investments in new multimillion-dollar machinery. ''A lot of companies build plants and then it's all about cost-cutting,'' said Robert Smith, the director of manufacturing at the plant, who worked for Philips and Atmel before joining Samsung six years ago. ''Samsung,'' he said, speaking through his mask in the company's clean room, ''has spent an amazing amount to keep up.''
 SAMSUNG'S plans to expand its fabrication plant could also give Austin a healthy economic kick. According to estimates from the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce, the extra jobs, construction and other associated spending could add as much as $753 million to the local economy.
 Samsung's investment ''breathed some air back into the city,'' said Pike Powers, a lawyer and local business leader. ''It came at a time when we were trying to put Humpty Dumpty back together again.''
 Counties throughout Texas hope to replicate Austin's success with Samsung. After years of traveling to Japan, officials in San Antonio persuaded Toyota Motor last year to spend $800 million on a new factory in the city that will create 2,000 jobs and attract suppliers who will employ an additional 1,000 workers.
 Also last year, state legislators, eager to replace some of the jobs lost since the North American Free Trade Agreement was signed a decade ago, approved a $295 million fund, called the Texas Enterprise Fund, to help attract companies. One of the first moves was to pay for a $15 million second train track to the site of Toyota's new plant.
 Other states, particularly in the Northeast, have had some success in attracting white-collar jobs in the last two years. UBS, the Swiss bank, established its main trading floor in Stamford, Conn., while Novartis, the Swiss drug company, moved its global research and development center to Cambridge, Mass. Two other chip makers, Infineon Technology of Germany and AMI Semiconductor of Japan, have set up shop elsewhere in the country.
 Many cities and states are happy to have the new jobs, but some detractors say foreign companies deliberately move to states like Texas, where unions have less of a foothold and managers can more easily lay off workers when times are tough. ''People don't forget that there are good foreign companies,'' said Thea Lee, chief international economist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''They just want them to respect workers' rights, pay good wages and be good to their local communities.''
 Others say foreign companies, some of which may be moving operations or headquarters to the United States anyway, should not be showered with tax dollars that could be better spent on health care, education and other needs. If the government helps businesses, they should be mom-and-pop shops, according to a public opinion poll conducted by liveablecity.org, an Austin group that works on quality-of-life issues. Other groups say tax dollars should be used to prevent American jobs from being shipped offshore.
 Outsourcing is unlikely to stop soon, but neither is insourcing. In fact, the decline of the dollar in the last two years has made investing in the United States more affordable for many companies. Foreign direct investment more than doubled last year, to $82 billion. And American subsidiaries of foreign companies reinvested $38.6 billion of the profits they earned in the United States last year, a sixfold increase. 
 Back at Samsung, Mr. Park said he did not spend much time worrying about the debate over the global ebbs and flows of jobs and money. Instead, he is busy training new workers, meeting the booming demand for memory chips and preparing his team for the expansion. ''I'm not a politician,'' he said. ''I'm just interested in making both ends meet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Samsung, the South Korean electronics giant, plans to spend $500 million to expand this semiconductor plant near Austin, Tex., and to hire as many as 300 workers. (Photo by Samsung)(pg. 1)
 Hee Kyun Park, president of Samsung Austin Semiconductor, said some of his workers came from other factories that have disappeared. (Photo by Frank Curry for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Chart: ''Globalized Workers''Though more and more workers are employed abroad by American companies, the number of workers employed here by foreign companies, while fewer, has also been rising.Graph tracks number of workers employed by U.S. companies in foreign countries* and U.S. workers employed by foreign companies* from 1982 to 2001.(2001 latest complete figures available)*Excludes banks(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALL CENTERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); TEST LABORATORIES (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (54%) Labor; United States Economy; Foreign Investments; Foreign Labor; Labor

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); SAMSUNG GROUP (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (57%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004



279 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 9; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Design

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Velite Puts a Spring in Buick's Step

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
WHEN General Motors executives went to China in the mid-1990's with a proposal to build automobiles, they negotiated long and hard with local officials about the types of vehicles to be manufactured. On one point the Chinese were unwilling to compromise: any models built by G.M. -- even if they were to be little more than rebadged Chevys or Opels -- had to carry the nameplate of the company's Buick division. The emperor, you see, had owned Buicks in the 1930's. 
 Chairman Mao would have been appalled, but the directive may have contributed to the company's success. Buicks sell briskly in China, while sales are shrinking in the United States. 
 The situation in Buick's home market is one that Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman for product development of G.M., intends to remedy, in part by establishing a new design direction for the brand. 
 Despite top-notch quality and reliability ratings from Consumer Reports and J.D. Power & Associates, the company is struggling in America. Indeed, the current annual sales volume of about 340,000 is less than half the 900,000 cars that Buick sold at its peak, in 1984. Another challenge: the average age of Buick buyers is 67; only the recent addition of truck-based models has begun to attract younger buyers.
 The prestige associated with the Buick name around the world makes it apt that Anne Asensio, the French-born head of advanced concept design at G.M., was put in charge of the latest effort at giving Buick a new look.
 The direction proposed by Ms. Asensio takes form in the Velite (pronounced vuh-LEET), a design study unveiled last week at the New York International Auto Show. This four-seat, rear-wheel-drive convertible suggests a broadened viewpoint for future Buick designs. ''It builds on American heritage, but for a global market,'' she said. 
 While Cadillac, Chevrolet and Pontiac have signaled new design directions with striking concepts that became production cars -- the XLR, SSR and Solstice, respectively -- Buick's efforts at designing a winning ''halo car'' and new design language have repeatedly come to grief. Buick's dream cars have tended to be bulbous and chunky, often rote repetitions of the waterfall grille and porthole hood trim that are the most obvious Buick ''brand cues,'' as designers call them. 
 All of Buick's design studies are descendents of what is considered to be the first concept car: the 1938 Y-Job by Harley Earl, who went on to fame as G.M.'s master designer and the father of the tailfin. (With every other experimental car dubbed the X-this or X-that, Earl jumped to Y for his project.)
 In its day, Buick offered some of the most dramatic of G.M.'s dream cars, from the LeSabre, inspired by an F-86 fighter jet, to the Wildcat series. A Buick concept car may be the only dream car ever to figure as the hero of a novel. In Bill Morris's ''Motor City,'' a fictional character patterned after Harley Earl appears, along with Marilyn Monroe. 
 Buick's most memorable efforts may be the Roadmaster and Century models of the 1940's and 50's. In ''Rain Man,'' Tom Cruise and Dustin Hoffman ramble in a classic Roadmaster convertible. Buick's recent efforts have not been warmly received. In 1998, the heavy-haunched Signia failed to stir hearts. The Cielo concept, a sort of sport-utility-vehicle-meets-convertible, arrived along with the ungainly Pontiac Aztek in the class of 1999. The 2000 LaCrosse concept possessed an unfortunate falling rear. The most striking recent concept was the Blackhawk, a hot rod reinterpretation of the Y-Job, put together in 2000 by a group of Buick renegades and styled by a former Buick designer, Steven D. Pasteiner. It was unsanctioned by their bosses at G.M. design. 
 For a time, the small, sporty Bengal of 2001 seemed to have star power. Although it was said by Buick to sum up the personality of the company's celebrity spokesman, Tiger Woods -- a Bengal is a tiger -- the car seemed too small to accommodate his frame comfortably, even if clever little side doors offered storage for his golf clubs.
 But to many, the Bengal said ''Reatta,'' the name of a mostly unloved sports car that Buick produced in 1988-'91.
 Last year, the Centieme, a crossover concept, generated little enthusiasm; even its name was awkward. 
 The Velite is more promising. At their best, Buicks are big American cars that still deliver smooth power from brawny engines and silky-smooth automatic transmissions. They are boulevard cruisers. In that tradition, the Velite offers an experimental 400-horsepower, twin-turbocharged V-6 under its forward-opening hood. 
 The car's exterior was shaped by Tom Peters, who designed the Cadillac XLR, and Sang Yup Lee. It is a Buick-big car, a convertible that seats four. With 21-inch wheels in the rear (20 in the front), the Velite is a Buick concept with a noble stance, powerful and poised at once. The car is painted a color that Buick calls dark tarnished bronze metallic. 
 The car's name can be traced back to Napoleon, who in 1804 swelled the ranks of his army with an elite class of soldiers called the velites. ''The Velite is the advance guard, dashing head, with the rest of the Buick offensive to follow,'' Ms. Asensio said.
 The designers have avoided a literal reiteration of Buick's signature design cues, the waterfall grille and porthole vent on the side. The grille brings complex and visually engaging changes to the Buick waterfall. The portholes are linked in a subtle echo of the shapes of the stacked headlights, which use a new combination of halogen lamps and focusing lenses that G.M. calls X-beam.
 The rear deck narrows to a central V, recalling boattail designs of the 1930's. The taillights are flush like those of the Y-Job.
 The heritage cues of Buick's earlier concepts skipped the creased, tailored period of great 1960's models like the Electra and, above all, the classic '63 Riviera. But ''the Velite has an edge to it,'' Mr. Peters said. 
 Moving beyond the cliches of wood and leather, Ms. Asensio said, the car's interior materials are intended to reflect an Asian approach to detail. ''Americans just look at space. They build big and fast -- the details come last,'' she said.
 The interior of the Velite, says its designer, Bryan Priebe, is intended to evoke the mood of a jazz lounge -- ''rich, romantic and exciting.'' Warm, indirect lighting emanates from behind the dashboard and suffuses the interior. The back seat wraps around like a banquette. In place of the traditional wood on the dash, and accenting the shifter and door handles, Mr. Priebe has specified gold-leaf lacquer, a touch of Asian luxury of which any emperor, East or West, would surely approve.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BUICK'S CONCEPT CAR OF 1998: Signia
2000: Blackhawk
1999: Cielo
2001: Bengal
2000: LaCrosse
2001: Centieme
 2004: The design of the Buick Velite ''builds on American heritage, but for a global market.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



280 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; MEDIA

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: New Publisher Enters Race To Reach Hispanic Readers

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
The scramble to capture Spanish-speaking newspaper readers in the United States is about to get another combatant, led by two experienced foreign correspondents who worked most recently at The Wall Street Journal.
 The new venture, Meximerica Media, is expected to announce in the next few weeks that it intends to create Spanish-language, tabloid-size newspapers in several Texas cities, according to several people briefed on the plans. Among the cities under strong consideration are Austin, Houston and San Antonio, to be followed by others in the West and Southwest where Mexican-American readers are thought to be underserved.
 The newspapers being conceived by Meximerica are but the latest burst of entrepreneurial activity aimed at Spanish-speaking readers, particularly by mainstream media companies like the Tribune Company, Knight Ridder, the Belo Corporation and MediaNews Group. In just the last year, six Spanish-language daily newspapers have been started in cities like Chicago and Los Angeles, while at least seven Spanish-language weeklies have begun publishing, including in relatively new Hispanic communities in Iowa, North Carolina and South Dakota. 
 These efforts are intended to capitalize on one main trend -- the burgeoning Hispanic population in the United States, as documented in the 2000 Census -- and to compensate for another -- the sluggish readership and advertising market for mainstream, English-language newspapers.
 But newspaper industry analysts cautioned that the quest for Spanish-speaking readers is a complicated one, particularly for any media company that perceives the nation's nearly 40 million Hispanic Americans as monolithic. Such companies, if they move too quickly, also risk being viewed as interlopers who could alienate the very readers they are trying to reach.
 Those readers are ''very sophisticated, and they're very much in tune with their countries of origin,'' said Kirk Whisler, the president of the Latino Print Network, a research and marketing affiliate of the National Association of Hispanic Publications. ''And in the case of Mexico, it's their state of origin.''
 ''Just the fact that you throw in coverage of Mexico -- and in your market there may be four states in Mexico that 80 or 90 percent of the residents are from -- is not enough,'' Mr. Whisler added. ''You need that localized news. That's really what they want to see.''
 The Meximerica newspapers plan to do just that, according to one person briefed on the plans, featuring local news, dispatches from the Mexican news wires, the latest Mexican soccer results and profiles of Latino entertainment figures.
 Meximerica is led by Edward Schumacher, a former managing editor of The Wall Street Journal Americas and a former correspondent in Madrid and Buenos Aires for The New York Times; and Jonathan Friedland, who, until recently, was the Los Angeles bureau chief for The Journal and a former correspondent in Buenos Aires and Mexico City. Mr. Friedland's resignation, and his hiring as group managing editor of Meximerica, were announced in a memo sent late last month to the news staff of The Wall Street Journal, which is owned by Dow Jones & Company, by Paul E. Steiger, the newspaper's managing editor. (Citing the memo, The Los Angeles Business Journal reported on March 29 on Mr. Friedland's departure for Meximerica.) 
 Both Mr. Schumacher, who was born in Colombia to a Panamanian father and Colombian mother, and Mr. Friedland declined comment on Meximerica. 
 Before formally announcing the company's plans, Mr. Schumacher is believed to be seeking to secure more than $20 million from several investors, who are identified on the company's Web site only as ''institutional backers in the U.S and Mexico.''
 Some larger newspaper companies have already invested heavily in the Spanish-language market. The Tribune Company, which owns The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, has expanded its Hoy franchise from New York to Chicago and Los Angeles. Belo, the publisher of The Dallas Morning News, began Al Dia in Dallas. Knight Ridder, owner of The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, expanded Diario La Estrella in Fort Worth from a weekly to a daily. 
 And MediaNews Group, the owner of papers including The Denver Post and The Los Angeles Daily News, has turned the tabloid El Economico into the weekly Impacto USA. 
 Meanwhile, already existing alliances have also undergone significant shifts. The Lozano family, which has published La Opinion, the Spanish language daily in Los Angeles, since 1926, announced in January the end of its partnership with Tribune, a relationship Tribune had assumed upon buying the Times Mirror newspapers in 2000. The Lozanos have since formed a venture, Impremedia, with CPK Media, the publisher of El Diario/La Prensa, the 91-year-old Spanish-language daily in New York.
 Driving all this maneuvering, in large part, is the lure of advertising revenue. According to the Latino Print Network, the more than 650 Spanish-language newspapers in this country -- including 40 that publish daily and 304 that publish weekly -- earned an estimated $854 million in combined advertising revenue in 2003. That represents an industrywide increase of $743 million, or 670 percent, since 1990, and $258 million, or 43 percent, since 2000.
 Over the same period, the readership of Spanish-language daily newspapers has grown -- from 440,000 in 1990 (when there were 14 such publications) to 1.4 million in 2000 (when there were 34) to 1.8 million last year, according to the Latino Print Network.
 That there is more than one way to approach such readers is apparent in the different strategies of the Lozanos and Tribune.
 In seeking to replicate the success of Hoy, which was founded in 1998 and has an average daily circulation of nearly 94,000 in the New York metropolitan region, Tribune has created virtual clones -- each also called Hoy -- in Chicago and Los Angeles in recent months. While the tabloid-size newspapers share the same national news pages -- and often the same front page -- each also has its own newsroom with its own focus. Each day, for example, there are an average of two pages each devoted to Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic in the New York edition, and four pages related to Mexico in the California editions (a total of four such editions, each pegged to a different zone of the Los Angeles area.)
 ''We want to be a national, easily identified brand with strong local roots in the community we're trying to serve,'' said Louis Sito, publisher, president and chief executive of Hoy and vice president for Hispanic media for Tribune. 
 By contrast, in joining forces with the publisher of El Diario, the chief competitor of Hoy in New York, the Lozano family has sought to maintain each newspaper's individuality -- while still making it easier for advertisers to buy space in each. Neither publication, for example, will change its name, in part because each has worked for decades to build a loyal readership. El Diario has an average weekday circulation of nearly 50,000, while La Opinion averaged 125,000, during the six months that ended Sept. 30, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
 The formation of Impremedia, and the release in Los Angeles of Hoy on March 1, has touched off a fierce newspaper war -- waged on billboards and over the radio and by dozens of hawkers. 
 Monica Lozano, the publisher and chief executive of La Opinion and a senior vice president of Impremedia, said that her family's long history in the Spanish language market set it apart from some newcomers. 
 ''They've moved into the Spanish-language publishing field because they're now aware of the marketing potential, the advertising potential and the need to expand on their newspaper base,'' she said. ''Ours is a commitment to publishing excellent Spanish-language newspapers that stand alone.''
 Meximerica, has veered away from such battlegrounds, and instead focused on so-called ''second tier'' markets where there is little or no competition.
 In the San Antonio and Austin markets, for example, where there are an estimated one million and 344,000 Hispanic residents, respectively, there is no other Spanish-language daily, Mr. Whisler, of the Latino Print Network, said. 
 While many factors -- not least the quality of the reporting and writing -- will determine the success of Meximerica's publications, Mr. Whisler said he will be watching closely to see how long the company is willing to wait to build its readership, and how hard it is willing to work to understand what those readers are seeking in a newspaper.
 ''If you go in thinking you're going to make a ton of money, you're going to be disappointed,'' he said. ''You may be doing very well on the ad sales right off the bat. But if you're not doing the things to build up that community involvement, you may not have the readership to continue delivering.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Monica Lozano, left, says that her family's long history in the Spanish-language market gives La Opinion a competitive edge. (Photo by Associated Press)Chart: ''Competing for Spanish Eyes''Three of the largest daily Spanish-language newspapers.NAME: La OpininOWNER: ImpremediaAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION*: 124,692PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION: Los Angeles CountyNAME: HoyOWNER: Tribune CompanyAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION*: 93,902PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION: New York City+NAME: El Diario/La PrensaOWNER: ImpremediaAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION*: 49,904PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION: New York City*Six months ended Sept. 30, 2003 (Sept. 28, 2003 for El Diario/La Prensa)+Audited circulation figures not yet available for editions of Hoy in Chicago (launched in Sept. 2003) and Los Angeles (March 2004).(Source by Audit Bureau of Circulations [circulation figures]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CENSUS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%) Newspapers; Spanish Language; Hispanic-Americans; Biographical Information; Newspapers

COMPANY: BELO CORP (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%) Meximerica Media

TICKER: BLC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: Jacques Steinberg; Edward Schumacher; Jonathan Friedland

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



281 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Watch The Hedgehogs

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a future remake of ''The Graduate,'' the phrase replacing ''plastics'' to be whispered in the ear of the title role is ''hedge funds.''
 That's where the action is. The number of such unregulated collections of capital has doubled in the last five years to 8,000. Managers make 20 percent of any profits, and if they bet wrong, simply close up the fund, distribute what's left and start a new one; the liquidation rate is about one-fourth every year. 
 That's why so many of the hottest Wall Streeters are joining the stampede into managing these high-end mutual funds. Because hedge fund investors are limited to millionaires and other heavily endowed entities, managers are free to leverage with bank loans and speculate secretly, untroubled by regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 You ask: Who cares if richies lose their stuffed shirts? George Soros, whose hedge fund ''broke the pound'' a dozen years ago, made a billion or so by betting dangerously on currency fluctuation (some of which he's now using to try to break the Bush administration). Why should the average investor worry about protecting the likes of him?
 The S.E.C. chairman, Bill Donaldson -- innovative investment banker, lifelong Republican -- told the Senate Banking Committee last week that ''hedge funds are being purchased by intermediaries on behalf of millions of . . . retirees, pensioners and others . . . through their pension plans or funds of hedge funds.'' He is seeking a rule that would make it possible for the S.E.C. to ''prevent, detect and deter abusive, fraudulent conduct'' in hedge funds. 
 As if to make Donaldson's point, the Massachusetts state pension board voted the day before to invest $1.6 billion in hedge funds. That's money promised to the elderly non-rich. Massachusetts voters may be liberal swingers, and $1.6 billion may be mere chump change in a hedge fund industry with assets now mushrooming to nearly a trillion dollars. But it defies reason to claim that ''little people'' are unaffected by the manipulations of the two-thirds of hedgehogs who choose not to register with the S.E.C. 
 A Massachusetts investment adviser says ''this helps you in down markets.'' That's largely true; a hedge fund often bets that a market, or the value of some arcane financial derivative, will go down, thereby profiting in recessions and countering a drop in its investor's portfolio. And some universities and foundations hire sophisticated watchdogs to monitor hedge fund performance, reducing the risk that flows from spreading their risk. 
 What's more, many economic theorists on Alan Greenspan's Federal Reserve staff approve of hedge funds and their favored financial derivatives. Helps liquidity, manages risk, encourages efficiency and the flow of global trade. 
 Fine; how, then, would those good things be harmed by the requirement of disclosure to prevent market manipulation, ''front running'' and insider dealing? S.E.C. registration might well have prevented the debacle in 1998 of Long-Term Capital Management, which creditors had to cover to the tune of $3.5 billion lest it disrupt the financial system. Same with the current tweet-tweeting of Canary Capital, which seems to have had Bank of America in its cage. 
 Just as some market insiders have an interest in pushing certain stock prices up, some hedgehogs have an interest in spreading rumors that depress stocks, currencies, or commodity prices. Would it hurt globalization for the world public to know who is buying or selling what -- after saying the opposite? Full disclosure would increase investor confidence in the U.S., setting a free-market example to exchanges around the world. 
 I feel a certain responsibility for again banging my spoon against this hedge fund highchair because I wrote the 1971 Nixon speech suspending the convertibility of the dollar into gold. That necessary flotation, in which Fed Chairman Arthur Burns acquiesced, had an unintended consequence: it launched the frantic derivative dealing that inflated today's hedge fund bubble. (Who knew? Soros owes me big time.) 
 At a time when the media is transfixed with blame-gaming, can we not spare a moment to connect the dots of a potential market crisis? Isn't this the time to shake the trees of Wall Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, to protect unwary pensioners and ultimate smaller investors? 
 America is running a real financial risk. We should fund and empower the S.E.C. to hedge against it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); BONDS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); ETHICS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Commodities Violations; Ethics; Millionaires and Billionaires; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (53%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) William Safire; William H (Chmn) Donaldson

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



282 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: Complex Web Of Madrid Plot Still Entangled

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Emma Daly contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: MADRID, April 11 

 BODY:
A week ago, after suspects in the March 11 Madrid train bombings blew themselves up to avoid capture by the police, Interior Minister Angel Acebes praised the work of the Spanish police and declared that the core of the terrorist group was either ''detained or dead.''
 But interviews with Spanish, Moroccan and French intelligence and police officials and a review of Spanish documents indicate that the plot is more complex than public statements suggest. Investigators say key participants in the deadliest terrorist attack in Spanish history -- 191 were killed -- may still be at large. 
 Investigators have found no hard evidence directly linking the attacks to major figures in Al Qaeda's terror network -- no money transfers, wiretapped conversations or face-to-face meetings. Instead, they have uncovered what they consider an equally worrisome phenomenon: a complex web of alliances forged through bonds of blood and the local village. 
 There is no convincing evidence, they also say, that the plot's mastermind has been found, despite an international arrest warrant issued by Spain that identified Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet, a 37-year-old Tunisian who later died in a suicide bombing, as the train attacks' ''leader and coordinator.'' 
 In addition, even though 17 people are behind bars in Spain, investigators are still searching for more than a dozen suspects, most of them Moroccan, in Europe and North Africa. Among those are two Moroccan men with links to Al Qaeda who may have played central roles in the attacks.
 ''It was a very important thing that up to seven people in this terrorist cell are dead and we are safer than we were a week ago,'' said a senior Spanish official. ''But there are important people on different levels -- both higher and lower, we think -- that we have to find. We are missing pieces of the puzzle.''
 The contrast between Mr. Acebes's remarks and the view of those closer to the evidence reflects a rift between officials and investigators exposed after the train bombings. 
 Officials in Spain's center-right government, which was defeated by Socialists in elections three days after the attacks, immediately blamed ETA, the Basque separatist group, even as investigators found evidence that pointed to Islamic terrorists.
 But intelligence reports show that investigators were warning of an increased threat from Islamic radicals more than a year before the attack. 
 Most of Spain's counterterrorist resources historically have been trained on ETA, even though the Spanish authorities had already broken up a suspected Qaeda cell in Spain after the attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.
 A Spanish intelligence assessment in early 2003 concluded that there could be terrorist ''sleeper cells'' of Islamic radicals with a financial and logistical infrastructure in the country that could be activated ''at any given moment.''

Alarming Assessments
 By October 2003, the same month Osama bin Laden, the Qaeda leader, listed Spain as one of several enemy countries, other intelligence assessments were even more alarming. 
 An influx of radical Muslims from Morocco after arrests of suspects in suicide bombings in Casablanca in May 2003 was one reason given for the increased threat. The deployment of Spanish troops in Iraq, Bosnia and Afghanistan was another.
 One assessment said there was ''an important presence'' of Islamic radicals in Spain who could carry out Mr. bin Laden's threat, which, it added, ''had to be taken seriously.'' 
 Based on earlier threats by the Qaeda leader, it said, an attack could come ''not long afterward.'' 
 Senior Spanish officials say they now believe that the Madrid attacks were mostly organized locally, with the planning, bomb-building, financing and execution carried out mainly by Moroccans inside Spain.
 The train bombings may have been inspired, rather than directed, by Al Qaeda. ''Our current thinking is that most of the group was based in Spain, but it benefited from the warrior ideology of Al Qaeda,'' one official said. ''Even if there is no proof that Al Qaeda gave an order to the cell, it took advantage of the operation for its own purposes. The connection is perhaps ideological, not operational.''
 At a news conference two days after the bombing, for instance, Interior Minister Acebes announced the discovery of a video in which a man who called himself Abu Dujan al-Afghani claimed that Al Qaeda was responsible for the attacks. 
 Mr. Acebes released the text of what the man said, but not the video. The video has provided evidence that the bombers were happy to let Al Qaeda take responsibility for the Madrid attacks after the fact. 
 The man in the video described himself as the spokesman for the military wing of Ansar al Qaeda in Europe, investigators said. But they added that they had never heard of Ansar al Qaeda, which means ''partisans of Al Qaeda.'' They said it might be a label used by radicals to identify themselves with Al Qaeda's cause. 
 The man was wearing a white robe and a white veil over his face, exposing only his eyes, his head covered in a black headdress, as he read from a piece of paper. He was carrying a British-made Sterling machine gun. Tacked to the wall behind him was a banner with a Koranic verse. 
 The remains of two Sterling machine guns and the banner were found in the debris of the apartment in the Madrid suburb of Leganes, where the fugitive suspects blew themselves up as the police closed in on them on April 3. 
 The video was also the first clue that the men might be willing to commit suicide for their cause. Intelligence officials who examined it were so alarmed that the man was dressed in white -- a symbol of martyrdom -- that they alerted the Interior Ministry that the investigation taken on an even greater urgency because those involved in the bombings might be willing to die. 
 Another ideological link to Al Qaeda was a letter published last Monday by the newspaper ABC. The handwritten letter in Arabic, faxed to the paper, warned that unless Spanish soldiers were removed from Iraq and Afghanistan immediately, Spain would be turned into ''an inferno.'' 
 Investigators said that the letter's language was similar to that of the video and that a handwriting analysis indicated it was probably written by Mr. Fakhet. 
 Then, a second video was found in the debris of the apartment destroyed in the suicide explosion.
 The authorities have not released that video either, but according to one official who has seen it, it shows three armed men, their faces covered in black masks. One wears a white robe and an Islamic banner around his waist, a Sterling machine gun in his right hand.
 Another man, with explosives strapped around his waist, reads out an ultimatum in Arabic that Spain must withdraw its troops from Muslim lands immediately or ''the Death Squadrons and Ansar al Qaeda will continue our holy war.'' 
 Certainly the suspects identified so far offer a troubling profile of a new type of terrorism facing Europe. 
 Investigators say the Madrid attacks appear to have been the work of an unusual collaboration of educated, middle-class and ideologically radical Muslims with drug-dealers and petty criminals. 
 Those who are either in police custody, wanted for questioning or dead include several sets of up to four or five Moroccan brothers, many of whom live outside Morocco and have varying connections to the terrorist cell, as well as non-Moroccan Arabs and small-time Spanish criminals.
 Mr. Fakhet, for instance, had lived in Spain for eight years, studied economics and had been a financial officer for the largest mosque in Madrid.

Holy War and Drug Dealing
 Even as he turned more radical in his thinking about four years ago, he worked as an aggressive real estate salesman for eight months last year, selling four apartments in one month. According to the warrant for his arrest, he ''raised awareness of holy war among his followers.''
 On the other end of the spectrum was Jamal Ahmidan, 33, a Moroccan who also died in the suicide bombing. He was a drug dealer who traveled on a fake Belgian passport. 
 According to the arrest warrant and officials, Mr. Ahmidan was Mr. Fakhet's right-hand man, moving hashish from Morocco to Spain and using the profits to buy guns and explosives. 
 For residents in the apartment building in Leganes, the group seemed like quiet, model neighbors. 
 They exchanged polite greetings in Spanish, wore trendy clothes and cologne, and never played music. But they moved in and out at odd hours and seemed to have no fixed jobs. And that raised suspicions.
 ''There was no sound, no whisper,'' said Honorio Ballesteros, who lived across the hallway. ''They hid their faces behind sunglasses.'' 
 On the evening of April 3, as the police evacuated the streets and closed in on them, the men chanted mournful verses from the Koran in voices that could be heard on the street. They frantically called home. One of them told his family he would see them again in paradise, according to police officials' monitoring of one of the cellphones. 
 Four bodies have been positively identified, although partial genetic traces from seven bodies have been found, one investigator said. 
 The intersection of radicals linked to terrorist groups and ordinary criminals illustrates why the threat is so hard to root out.
 The bombers fabricated the cellphone detonators and explosives for the train attacks in Mr. Ahmidan's crumbling rented house in the Chinchon area southeast of Madrid, investigators said. 
 But there was no surveillance of the house by antiterrorism services. Mr. Ahmidan was not considered a terrorist, only a drug trafficker. 
 Now investigators are searching for several other suspects who may be even more important.

Possible Links to Al Qaeda
 One of their main targets is Amer el-Azizi, a 36-year-old Moroccan who spent time in Qaeda camps in Afghanistan and recruited for them, according to a Spanish indictment charging him with involvement in the Spanish Qaeda cell that helped plan the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 He is also wanted by Morocco in connection with the Casablanca attacks last year and by the F.B.I. in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 The police suspect that he has links to Abu Musab al-Zarkawi, the Jordanian who American officials believe is helping direct the terrorist war in Iraq.
 There is no concrete proof linking Mr. Azizi with the Madrid attacks. But Spanish investigators say he could turn out to have been the inspiration for them. 
 A second top suspect is Said Berraj, a 31-year-old Moroccan who is described in Spain's international arrest warrant of possible links to Al Qaeda ''based on a meeting held in October 2000 in Istanbul with three other presumed members of Al Qaeda.'' He is also linked to the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group, a Morocco-based terrorist network whose leaders trained in Afghanistan.
 ''There are strong suspicions that this network was connected to the attack, but at the moment no hard evidence,'' an intelligence official said. 
 Others include both a North African with connections to two sets of Moroccan brothers and Rabei Osman Ahmed, an Egyptian.
 Although most of the suspects are Moroccan, Morocco's government insists that the Madrid train attacks were an international operation carried out by Al Qaeda. 
 But the Spanish authorities say this is not yet proved, noting that at least 90 percent of the Muslims living in Spain are Moroccan. 
 ''They are trying to cover up reality, dreaming that this was not an operation of mostly Moroccans,'' a senior Spanish official said. 
 ''Not true,'' said a senior Moroccan intelligence official. ''It was Al Qaeda, Al Qaeda, Al Qaeda.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet, left, a Tunisian, and Jamal Ahmidan, a Moroccan, who were suspects in the Madrid train bombings, blew themselves up in a building surrounded by the police. (Photo by Polaris)
(Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)
 The Madrid bombers are believed to have fabricated cellphone detonators and explosives in this house in the Chinchon area southeast of Madrid. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (84%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); WIRETAPPING (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%) Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Railroads; Suicides and Suicide Attempts

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Elaine Sciolino; Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet; Jamal Ahmidan; Angel (Min) Acebes

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (98%) SPAIN (98%); EUROPE (92%); MOROCCO (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (74%) Spain; Madrid (Spain); Morocco; Spain; Tunisia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



283 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2164 words

HEADLINE: Despite Cleanup at Mine, Dust and Fear Linger

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: PICHER, Okla. 

 BODY:
The wind blows hard here these days, carving the 100-foot minimountains of mine waste into buttes and whipping dust into the yards and homes nearby. In 2000, the last time a comprehensive study was done, 12 percent of the small children tested had levels of lead in their blood above the hazard threshold -- about two and a half times the national average.
 That was good news. In 1997, lead levels had been twice as high among children under 6 here and in the nearby communities Cardin and Hockerville, all of them near the center of the Tar Creek Superfund site. One child in four was then at risk for problems related to lead exposure, like lowered I.Q.'s and behavioral disorders.
 These communities, where lead and zinc were mined for 60 years, are at a crossroads. In the last six years, the Environmental Protection Agency has spent $120 million to clean up the yards of families living in the middle of one of the oldest sites on the Superfund list of the country's most contaminated toxic waste sites. If the cleanup is responsible for lower lead levels among children, then further cleanup may make them safer. But if the wind off the hillsides recontaminates the land and the air, the scattershot damage that lead may inflict on young nervous systems will remain a danger. 
 Unlike Love Canal, the Superfund site in upstate New York that was declared clean in March, the massive Tar Creek mining site, whose lead ore became bullets fired in two world wars, offers a cautionary tale. Like a patient riddled with overlapping infections, Tar Creek has exhibited almost every symptom of a modern wasteland. Acidic, rust-red waterways threaten to pollute subterranean aquifers and pose a risk to wells and downstream lakes. Houses have been swallowed by subsidence above abandoned mine shafts; sports fields in Picher sit atop a massive underground cavern.
 The site is a stark reminder of the limits of the federal government's ability to clean up the messes of the industrial age. And it raises questions about whether some Superfund sites have such intractable problems that no amount of money, time and effort will make them safe.
 ''Nobody anticipated we would be facing these multi-hundred-million-dollar problems,'' said Thomas Dunne, the deputy to the Environmental Protection Agency's assistant administrator in charge of Superfund cleanups. 
 So stubborn are the problems at Tar Creek that neither state action, federal intervention and a bevy of scientific studies nor a series of lawsuits against the mining companies or their successors has produced a lasting solution. The mining companies, which may still bear a measure of responsibility, strongly maintain that the piles of mine waste do not pose a health hazard.
 Nonetheless, many families have reluctantly concluded that the government should buy them out. Two voluntary proposals under consideration would accommodate some or all of the 680 families living near the largest concentration of mine waste, which is heaped in mounds known as chat piles; estimated costs run from $5 million to $50 million or more. 
 Federal environmental officials acknowledge that the original Superfund law, financed in part by taxes on the petrochemical industries, was not intended to eradicate the entrenched forms of contamination at some mine sites. By last year, for example, Tar Creek was one of eight Superfund sites that consumed more than half of the agency's long-term cleanup budget, officials say.
 Despite shouldering much of the burden of that expense, the E.P.A. remains committed to cleanup rather than relocations, Mr. Dunne said. ''We still have to clean the land,'' he said. Evacuating the residents, he added, ''wouldn't have been cheaper, I know that; and it couldn't have been involuntary.''
 Some federal, state and local officials have begun mustering support for at least a partial relocation plan. But others remain vigorously opposed, including the powerful chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, who says residents should not be moved unless the government determines an imminent threat.
 Mr. Dunne has similar reservations. ''I'm sympathetic to the plight of individual families who get cast in that position,'' he said. ''But I'm not sure the government can say, in every case where there's risk, 'We'll move you away from the risk or eliminate the risk.' ''
 Doris Long, who runs the Dairy Queen near the center of this town of one-story clapboard dwellings, low incomes and long memories, winces at the mention of a buyout. But pointing at her 5-year-old granddaughter, who was busy playing with borrowed lipstick, Ms. Long said, ''I imagined her asking me, in 20 years, 'Nana, if you knew it was bad, why didn't you do anything?' ''

Part of the Landscape
 Generations of miners, including Mickey Mantle's father, carved miles of tunnels here, hewing the makings of bullets and zinc-plated washtubs out of the ground until the mines shut down around 1970. They left huge caverns beneath the surface where Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri meet, and huge piles of mine tailings on top. 
 The mountains of mine waste were part of the landscape when most of the current residents were born. ''The chat piles were our friends,'' said Kimberly Pace, 45. The miners' descendants sledded on them as children, partied on them as teenagers, and, as adults, found ersatz sand for their children's sandboxes and the foundations of their homes.
 The chat, most people believed, had some economic value as fill material. That it might be hazardous was not widely recognized until 1994, when blood lead information collected from local Quapaw Indian children showed 35 percent with levels above the federal threshold for excessive exposure, which is 10 micrograms of lead per deciliter of blood, down from 25 in the 1980's.
 In 1997, tests of children in the nearby town of Miami and the five old mining towns within the Superfund site -- Picher, Cardin, Quapaw, Commerce and North Miami -- found lead in paint on the homes, lead in soil in the yards, lead in dust on the floors and, in Picher and Cardin, hazardous lead levels in the blood of one child in four.
 As a result, the Environmental Protection Agency began replacing the soil in 2,000 yards. When blood lead levels dropped between 1997 and 2000, the agency took credit. 
 As a lifelong resident, Ms. Pace knew the area's persistent problems. Picher, whose population reached 16,000 before World War II, had just 1,600 people in 2000.
 Ms. Pace recalled that in 1980, when she was a new teacher in Picher, fresh from working with learning-disabled children in nearby Joplin, Mo., she was baffled by her new charges in special-education classes. ''It didn't really matter what strategy and what technique I used, there was just a little bit of success and a little bit of improvement and then . . .'' she said with a shrug.
 For most of the two decades that Tar Creek has been a designated Superfund site, Ms. Pace has been the principal of Picher Elementary. In 1997, she got a call from county health officials telling her that tests had found the children's blood lead levels to be abnormally high. ''It was like, 'Aha! I'm not crazy -- there is something the matter,' '' she said. 
 There is no conclusive link between any child's disabilities and exposure to lead from the mining wastes, and the lead levels in children's blood here are in fact lower than the national average from 1975. But Ms. Pace keeps what she considers a possible smoking gun: a list trying to correlate the lead levels of 28 children in kindergarten through third grade with their reading skills.
 The higher the level of lead in a child's blood, she says, the more likely it is that the child has a reading deficit. Of 14 children with blood lead levels of 7 to 18 micrograms per deciliter, 12 had trouble reading and showed no improvement after intensive intervention. Ms. Pace's list, however, has not been deemed scientifically rigorous enough to be admitted as evidence in recent lawsuits on behalf of Picher children. 
 Katy Long had a blood lead level of 9 when she was first tested two years ago; it has since declined to 3, and Katy, a 7-year-old first grader, is now doing second-grade-level reading. Her sister, Molly, 5, was first tested last fall; her blood lead level was 5 micrograms per deciliter, and she also shows no learning problems.
 Their parents, Tom and Mary, are now expecting a son. Although they live in the home where Mary Long's grandparents were reared, Tom Long said, ''I'd like not to be here when the baby's here.''

'This Is Not a Safe Place'
 William Banner Jr., a pediatrician and toxicologist in Tulsa who has been to the site several times, sympathizes with the residents' resolve to move, though he is less concerned about the children's lead levels than he is about the dangers posed by collapsing mines and industrial cleanup. ''This is not a safe place to live,'' he said. 
 Dr. Banner cautioned against drawing direct conclusions between lead exposure and learning skills. ''The relationships of poverty to school performance to lead are so complex that a simplistic look at it like this really is not that helpful in determining causality,'' he said.
 Others are not convinced that their communities will remain unhealthy. Bill Lake, 43, another lifelong resident who has two small children, vehemently opposes a general buyout. ''My goal is to make Picher a safe place to live,'' he said. ''I don't want people coming to tell me to sell my house when my house is not for sale.'' The chat piles, he said, are ''a possible hazard, but a manageable one if we put our efforts into doing something about it.''
 Federal agencies have commissioned a $2.5 million study to find ways to get rid of the chat. But what to do about the piles is an unresolved issue, as is the question of who bears responsibility for their containment or removal.
 Members of the Quapaw tribe say they own 73 million of the 75 million tons of chat. John Berrey, chairman of the tribe's local business council, says the chat is theirs because their ancestors leased the land to the old mining companies. The tribe views the chat, in a less toxic form, as a potential economic resource, usable, for instance, for roadbeds.
 In addition, the Interior Department, as trustee for the tribal members, is among those potentially responsible. Along with the Blue Tee Corporation and the Gold Fields Mining Corporation, it might face liabilities in future cleanups or a buyout.
 Robert Joyce, a lawyer for the two companies, said, ''We believe very strongly, based on the evidence we have, that dust is not the source of lead contamination in Picher.''
 Don Robbins, the director of environmental services at Asarco, which also operated in the area, said, ''There's no doubt that there's some concentration of lead in the tailings, but we believe that the concentration of lead in the tailings and the chemical form of that lead would not provide a significant risk to the children in the community.''
 Those companies and three others are defendants in a class-action suit brought by 11 Picher residents, seeking damages for health consequences and asking a federal judge to order a relocation program.

The Politics of Relocation
 While opposing federal buyouts, Senator Inhofe has arranged for the allocation of $45 million over three years for the University of Oklahoma to conduct cleanups, mostly in peripheral areas.
 Citing a 1999 notice by the E.P.A., the senator said he believed that Picher and Cardin were safe. Those who have concern for their children, he said, are welcome to move.
 His rival in this debate is Representative Brad Carson, who is running for Senator Don Nickles's seat against Kirk Humphreys, the former mayor of Oklahoma City. Representative Carson has proposed federal legislation for a voluntary buyout, which would compensate homeowners and renters for comparable property elsewhere.
 ''We think they have to be relocated,'' said Mr. Carson, a Democrat. ''It's our responsibility to push E.P.A. to do things.''
 If Tar Creek had been in an urban area, he said, ''this would have been solved 20 years ago.''
 After Mr. Carson's idea began to gain traction with some residents, Senator Inhofe solicited Cherokee Investment Partners of Raleigh, N.C., to explore a private buyout. Cherokee's president, Tom Darden, said he regarded the prospect as a challenge, but had not decided whether to get involved.
 In January, the state's new governor, Brad Henry, a Democrat, proposed buyout legislation too. It would provide both homeowners and renters with financial help in resettling.
 The legislation has been approved by the State Senate and awaits a vote in the House. With $5 million on the table, all it could do is buy out perhaps 70 families with young children.
 The Longs would be among them, if they could. ''It's hard,'' Mary Long said. ''This is where all our family is. But I think we would choose to go.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Picher, Okla., where many residents worry about lead levels, mountains of mine waste loom over the town. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Piles of waste from a long-shuttered mine site tower over the houses of Picher, Okla. Some residents use the piles for recreation, but others have become so concerned about lead levels that they want to be moved. A crater from a mine collapse, above left, has become a dumping ground. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
Tar Creek flowing near piles of mine waste. (pg. A16)Chart: ''Cleaning Up Tar Creek''Over the past 20 years, the Environmental Protection Agency has spent millions of dollars cleaning up contamination from abandoned lead and zinc mines near Tar Creek in Oklahoma.1980 -- The governor of Oklahoma establishes a task force to investigate acidic drainage from the mines into Tar Creek.1981 -- The site is proposed for a list of priority Superfund sites.1983 -- The site is added to the Superfund priority list.1984-86 -- As part of a plan to stop surface water from Tar Creek from flowing into two mine shafts, dikes and diversionary structures are constructed. To prevent acidic mine water from flowing downward into the aquifer, 83 wells are plugged. The action does little to reduce the surface release of acidic mine water.1994 -- Elevated blood lead levels are found in 35 percent of Indian children in mining areas.1994-95 -- The E.P.A. tests soil at day care centers, schoolyards and residential properties and finds high levels of lead.1996-2003 -- The E.P.A. decides to replace lead-contaminated soil in residential yards with clean soil. Soil is replaced in 2,000 yards at a cost of $120 million.SUMMER 2002 and 2003 -- A University of Oklahoma investigation shows dust with lead recontaminating homes, though not to earlier levels.(Source by Environmental Protection Agency
 photograph from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers)(pg. A16)Map of Oklahoma highlighting Tar Creek. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAD (92%); SUPERFUND (91%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (90%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FAMILY (89%); UNDERGROUND MINING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LEAD POISONING (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (54%) Lead; Superfund; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Children and Youth; Waste Materials and Disposal; Zinc; Mines and Mining; Wind; Lead; Air Pollution; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (59%) Environmental Protection Agency 

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Picher (Okla); United States

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



284 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2024 words

HEADLINE: A Zoning Board's Quiet Work Has Neighbors Making Noise

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
The future of Red Hook, Brooklyn, a port and industrial area since the Civil War, may have been sealed last December, when the decision was made to convert a hulking six-story warehouse on Imlay Street, next to a container port, into 150 luxury condominiums with a dramatic view of the harbor and the Manhattan skyline. 
 The move was cheered by some residents as the start of a renaissance in Red Hook. But it was denounced by executives of companies in the industrial area as a turning point that was increasing land prices and driving out businesses, just as they had witnessed on the West Side of Manhattan and along the Williamsburg waterfront in Brooklyn. 
 Yet this critical choice was made not by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or by the City Council or the City Planning Commission, with broad powers to regulate land use, but by a little-known five-member body, the Board of Standards and Appeals, with the power only to carve out exceptions to the city's zoning code for individual property owners with unique hardships.
 For many years, the board has been quietly carrying out its duties without attracting much attention. But as housing prices and the pressure for development have risen, critics, including planners, civic groups, council members and community leaders, complain that the board has, in hundreds of decisions and with little public oversight, reshaped neighborhoods and altered the fabric of life in communities across the city. 
 Members say the board is fair to all sides, and closely follows the law. But the critics say that the board has, over time, become too lenient with developers and the consultants who represent them, and lax in applying its legal standards and case law. They say that as a result, the board has been approving an unusually large percentage of developers' requests. What is certain is that despite its modest mission, the board has become a significant arbiter of land use. In 2001 and 2002, the board received 50 applications to build new apartment buildings or convert large warehouses and factories to apartments in manufacturing zones along the waterfront in Williamsburg and Greenpoint and in nearby areas, according to a study by the Municipal Art Society, a civic group that focuses on preservation and planning. During the same period, 10 applications were filed in the far West Village to convert manufacturing sites to housing. 
 The study also found that all of the 137 requests for zoning variances across the city filed with the board during those two years and decided by April 2003, all but 10 were granted. That 93 percent success rate for developers was an increase of about 10 percentage points since the 1970's, when a similar study was carried out. 
 As a result, the City Planning Commission, which is charged with overseeing city zoning, is often confronted with de facto changes, and redraws zoning maps to match decisions by the board, a case of the tail wagging the dog, planners and other critics of the standards and appeals board say. They complain that efforts in the 1980's to strengthen the board's staff by hiring financial analysts able to closely challenge developers' complex financial reports and calculations have long been abandoned. As a result, critics say, the board is too deferential to the small number of lawyers and financial consultants who practice regularly before it. Some question private meetings that board members have with applicants and their consultants before a case is filed. 
 ''There is an active underground rezoning going on in the city for guys who are rich enough or smart enough to know how to manipulate the system,'' said the president of the Municipal Art Society, Kent L. Barwick. ''It is totally inappropriate and unanticipated by the people who are responsible for city planning.''
 Sylvia Deutch, who was a chairman of the Board of Standards and Appeals in the early 1980's and later the head of the City Planning Commission, said that she did bring in financial and planning professionals, but that in recent years things have slipped. 
 ''The problem is that in the last couple of years the board has been lax in strictly enforcing the case law,'' she said. ''There is a perception around that things are pretty loose.''
 The board's executive director, Pasquale Pacifico, said that because its members functioned in a ''quasi-judicial'' capacity, they would not comment on any specific cases. But he said the board rigorously applied criteria set forth in the zoning code and interpreted by the courts, and often required developers to make changes in planned projects before approving them.
 He said the board's high approval rate could be attributed to several factors. Private meetings with the board, he said, have led some ''hopeless cases'' to give up before filing applications, while some applicants grew discouraged during hearings and dropped out. 
 But the Municipal Art Society report said that even when withdrawn applications were included in its calculations, nearly four out of five applicants were approved.
 ''We do specific sites; we don't do big things,'' said Mr. Pacifico, who served as executive director of the Mayor's Action Center under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. He said that while the private meetings with developers were proper, in the face of criticism, he has begun keeping a record of each meeting and everyone in attendance.
 The board dates to 1916, when New York City created the first modern zoning code, and it is intended to protect the rights of property owners and prevent court challenges to zoning provisions. The board consists of five full-time commissioners, one of whom serves as chairman, and, by law, must include at least one architect, one engineer and one planner. The salary is $120,000 for commissioners and $152,000 for the chairman. 
 Until a few months ago, all five board members had been Giuliani appointees. Currently the four commissioners are Giuliani appointees, including two men who served as building commissioners under the former mayor, Satish K. Babbar and Joel A. Miele Sr. In January, Mayor Bloomberg, appointed Meenakshi Srinivasan, a deputy director of the Manhattan City Planning Office as chairman, a move viewed in the planning community as an effort to add a stronger planning perspective to the board. 
 Ms. Srinivasan would not discuss the board's past actions, but said that she planned to make the initial application process more rigorous and redraft forms to make submissions easier to analyze. ''The board should be fair and consistent in its grants or denials,'' she said. 
 Conflicting views about the board and how it operates can be seen in a few recent cases.
 Last month the board decided that 408 Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, formerly a gas station, could be turned into a nine-story office and apartment building because of the site's ''unique physical conditions'' -- mainly its small size -- and troublesome ''subsurface conditions.''
 But Doris Diether, a zoning consultant for opponents to the planned building and a member of a Community Board 2 in Greenwich Village since 1964, pointed out that the unique subsoil conditions -- fill and loose rock because the site was built beyond the original Manhattan shoreline -- were common to acres of West Side properties, and that the lot was as large as or larger than 80 percent of the properties within 400 feet of the site. 
 ''Everything west of Hudson Street is built on fill,'' she said, ''There is nothing unique about it.''
 In its findings, however, the board discounted this testimony because, it said, the opponents had failed to provide evidence of specific lots ''in the immediate vicinity'' with similar conditions. It also said that while there were other small lots in the area, they ''were not underdeveloped to the same degree'' as 408 Greenwich Street.
 Many cases hinge on owners' ability to show that they would face an economic hardship without a variance, and only a small return if they receive the full variance they seek. 
 But many groups who challenge applications say that the board is too quick to accept the selective statistics provided to them by developers, and does not investigate too deeply into their conclusions.
 In one case cited by the Municipal Art Society -- a plan to build the blocklong Morton Square residential development on the site of a truck terminal in an industrial zone on West Street -- opponents complained that the developers' financial analysis underestimated the return on the new building, by stating that the project, with spectacular Hudson River views, would be a rental, not a condominium.
 After the variance was approved and upheld in court, a 14-story tower with river views was marketed as a condominium, the report said. 
 ''There is some questionable evidence that is submitted,'' said Christopher Rizzo, a lawyer who has a fellowship with the Municipal Art Society and is the principal researcher on the report. ''In some cases the comparable rents and sale prices seem to be selected to support a low number and a hardship claim.''
 But Howard Weiss, a lawyer who represented the owners at 408 Greenwich Street, said he thought the board's approval process was fair and did not favor developers. ''As someone who is put to the test by the board every time we file an application, I thinks it works,'' he said.
 Mr. Weiss said the financial consultants who work with him and other lawyers were effective because they ''understand what the board looks for.''
 Concern about the board goes beyond urban planners and good-government groups in Manhattan to community boards and elected officials in other parts of the city facing renewed development pressures. 
 In Queens, City Councilman Tony Avello, chairman of a Council subcommittee on zoning and franchises, said that he has long been concerned about the board's impact in his district in Northeast Queens. When he raised the issue in his subcommittee, he said, he found similar complaints from council members across the city. ''I was surprised to find there is total agreement from everybody that the B.S.A. has gotten out of control,'' he said. 
 He has scheduled a hearing on April 19 on a proposal to amend the city charter to give the City Council the right to review the board's decisions, similar to the authority it has to review some City Planning Commission rulings. 
 The Municipal Art Society report recommended a series of smaller steps to strengthen the board's review system, from hiring financial analysts to requiring sworn testimony. It also called for changes to zoning rules to make variances tougher to win. 
 For instance, an investor can currently pay a high price for a building and immediately argue that he faces an economic hardship. The society is proposing that there be a presumption, open to challenge, that the price recently paid for a property already accounts for any hardships on the site. 
 The bitter fight over the Red Hook warehouse at 160 Imlay Street, built by the New York Dock Company in 1913, raised the same issues that have come up in similar cases in Williamsburg.
 Was the area a wasteland, as the developer contended, or a stable industrial zone attracting new small businesses? Did the developers try and fail to find tenants, or was the search a sham? Was there a unique hardship because the building was outmoded, or was it typical of industrial buildings in use across the city?
 In the end, the board sided with the developer on all those issues. It voted 3 to 1 to allow the conversion of the upper four floors to apartments, but turned aside a request to build an additional three floors on top.
 Although 85 percent of board's decisions are upheld in the courts, The Red Hook-Gowanus Chamber of Commerce has filed suit to challenge the Imlay Street decision. But Matt Yates, a board member of the chamber and the director of the container port, says it may be too late.
 ''This is a huge building, a symbolic building, and it's fanning the winds of speculation,'' he said. ''Rents are rising now, and long term leases are not being offered'' to local business, he said, adding, We are not even able to get two- or three-year leases.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1913 warehouse in Red Hook, Brooklyn, is to be converted into condominiums. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)
 The Board of Standards and Appeals considers requests for zoning code exceptions. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); MAYORS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



285 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 265 words

PERSON: John Schaft Crowley

HEADLINE: John S. Crowley, 80, Ex-WNET Chairman

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
John S. Crowley, a New York executive who was for a short time chairman of Channel 13 and ushered it through a time of financial distress, died on March 31 at the Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80. 
 The cause was complications from pneumonia and Parkinson's disease, said his son, Sean.
 From 1952 to 1977, Mr. Crowley was a member of McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, where he eventually became a senior partner. After leaving McKinsey, he became an executive vice president of the Xerox Corporation.
 Mr. Crowley was on the board of several nonprofit organizations, including the American Foundation for the Blind, Helen Keller International and Channel 13, WNET, the New York metropolitan area's major public television station. In 1983, George T. Piercy, the chairman of Channel 13, stepped down as the station was facing a financial crisis. Mr. Crowley, who had been on the board for 17 years, became interim chairman for a year, pulling the station through a time of reorganization and deep budget cuts.
 John Schaft Crowley was born in Rochester on July 21, 1923. He graduated from the University of Rochester in 1943 and enlisted in the Navy. In 1946, he returned to Rochester, where he taught engineering classes at the university, leaving a year later to earn a master's degree in business administration from Harvard.
 Mr. Crowley is survived by his wife, Carol, of Greenwich, Conn.; his son, Sean, of Washington; his daughters, Megan Crowley-McAllister of Atlanta and Sheilah Crowley Knowlton and Katherine, both of New York; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); PNEUMONIA (57%); BUDGET CUTS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FOUNDATION FOR THE BLIND (57%); HELEN KELLER INTERNATIONAL (57%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



286 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Web Site to Provide Comparative Data on Retail Prices of Prescription Medicines

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11 

 BODY:
Medicare will soon publish detailed information comparing the prices of most prescription drugs, shining a bright light on some of the biggest secrets in the health care industry.
 Economists and federal officials say the information, intended to help Medicare beneficiaries, could also be immensely useful to other consumers, as well as to private insurers and employers who provide drug coverage to employees and retirees.
 The data will be available late this month on a government Web site, Medicare.gov. The site will list the prices charged for various dosages of specific drugs at retail pharmacies in or near a given ZIP code. If a brand-name drug has generic equivalents, their prices will be displayed as well. 
 Medicare officials said the Web site would also show prices for competing brand-name drugs used to treat the same condition. Thus, a person shopping for Lipitor could see the prices for other cholesterol-lowering agents like Zocor and Crestor.
 Ana Nunez-Poole, Web site manager at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the main purpose of providing such information was to help beneficiaries compare the merits of the drug discount cards issued by private entities and approved by the government.
 Beneficiaries will be able to sign up for the cards next month. Card sponsors have negotiated discounts with drug manufacturers. The site will list the retail prices for different drugs under different cards, so beneficiaries can choose the card that best meets their needs.
 Through the federal Web site, consumers and government officials will have access to prices for more than 60,000 products sold at nearly 75,000 pharmacies around the country. ''That has never happened before,'' said James L. Yocum, executive vice president of DestinationRx, a contractor that helped develop the site.
 The process of setting drug prices is notoriously secretive. Ten people buying the same drug at a retail pharmacy may pay 10 different prices, depending on what insurance coverage they have, if any.
 Comparison shopping is difficult. ''This type of information is hard to get today,'' said John C. Rother, policy director of AARP, the lobby for older Americans. ''Most consumers don't have access to it.''
 Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, said the act of making the data public would ''help drive down drug prices,'' as ''companies will have to reduce prices to compete.''
 Americans without drug coverage pay some of the world's highest prices for their medicines. The Bush administration says the sponsors of drug discount cards have negotiated savings of 10 percent to 25 percent off retail prices. Democrats are generally skeptical and predict savings at the lower end of that range.
 Elderly people who are not comfortable using the Internet will be able to call a toll-free telephone number, 800-MEDICARE (633-4227), to obtain prices for the medicines they use. About 22 percent of Americans 65 and older regularly use the Internet but the number is growing rapidly, according to the Pew Internet and American Life Project, a research organization.
 DestinationRx, a small company based in Los Angeles, developed the software needed for comparison shopping and will tabulate the prices reported by drug-card sponsors.
 ''This is an enormous undertaking,'' said Mr. Yocum of DestinationRx. ''It's as if the federal government were trying to find the price of milk at every supermarket in the country at the same time.''
 The company already operates a Web site that compares prices of drugs available through large online pharmacies.
 ''The market for prescription drugs has been largely opaque,'' Mr. Yocum said. ''When markets become transparent, consumers see lower prices almost immediately.''
 Pharmacists say they expect to be deluged with questions from Medicare beneficiaries and from other consumers who want the same discounts. ''We are already getting lots of questions,'' said Page Dunlap, the owner of a pharmacy in Hartselle, Ala., north of Birmingham.
 Every state has a health insurance counseling program to help Medicare beneficiaries sort through their choices. Counselors who saw a demonstration of the new Web site here last week said they were impressed, but had many questions.
 Robin S. Szwanek, a counselor with the Nebraska Insurance Department, said the price data could be a ''savior'' for elderly people and those who advise them on how to cope with soaring drug costs.
 Tracey A. Borgmeyer, a trainer with Missouri's program, said the site would be useful to some Medicare beneficiaries, but confusing to others. ''It's too much information, too much data, for some beneficiaries,'' she said.
 Gail E. Shearer, a health policy expert at Consumers Union, said that ''there is already a high degree of confusion and anxiety among seniors and the disabled about how to choose a drug discount card,'' and that the information on the Web site could compound that confusion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); DRUG PRICES (91%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); MEDICARE (91%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); WEB SITES (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MEDICAID (59%); CHOLESTEROL (54%) Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Consumer Protection; Aged

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (57%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



287 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Risk of a Tax Audit Is Still Shrinking, I.R.S. Data Show

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Since taking office, the Bush administration has repeatedly promised to get tough with tax cheats, saying it has ended a long slide in enforcement of tax laws.
 But an independent analysis of new Internal Revenue Service data released today shows that tax enforcement has fallen steadily under President Bush, with fewer audits, fewer penalties, fewer prosecutions and virtually no effort to prosecute corporate tax crimes. The audit rate for the 11,200 largest corporations, which pay nearly all corporate income taxes, has fallen by almost half over the last decade, as has the audit rate for unincorporated businesses.
 David Burnham, a director of the Syracuse University research organization that reviewed the government data, said that ''President Bush and the I.R.S. commissioner have been running around talking about how they are going after corporate scofflaws, but the I.R.S. data suggest that the effort against corporate scofflaws is continuing to decline.''
 Today, the I.R.S. has about half the law enforcement resources for each tax return that it did in 1988, the Syracuse researchers said. The university's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse will post the data at trac.syr.edu. 
 President Bush has maintained a hard-line stance on white-collar crime, which typically involves tax cheating. In September 2002, he said that his administration was sending ''a clear message to every dishonest corporate leader: you will be exposed and you will be punished.''
 A few weeks ago, he said his administration had responded strongly to corporate crimes, saying ''we're not going to tolerate dishonesty in the boardrooms of America.''
 The I.R.S. data reviewed at Syracuse showed that in the 15-month period that ended on Dec. 31, 2003, convictions had been obtained against six corporate officers in five cases in which the I.R.S. was the lead investigative agency. That was barely more than one-half of 1 percent of such cases, indicating that the law enforcement focus remains on individuals.
 Separate data from the Justice Department show a long trend down in federal tax prosecutions. The department, citing United States court records, says that total federal tax prosecutions declined to 483 in 2003 from 1,431 in 1981. 
 Rod J. Rosenstein, a deputy assistant attorney general who supervises tax prosecutions, said that in 2003, the number of investigations and the filing of criminal tax charges both increased for the first time in years. ''It often takes two years or more for a criminal tax defendant to be convicted and sentenced, so the increase in new cases is not yet reflected in completed prosecutions,'' he said. 
 Mark W. Everson, who became tax commissioner last May, said that changes he had made to increase enforcement would not show up until statistics for the current year become available next spring. He also said that the increase would happen only if Congress fully funds the I.R.S. in fiscal 2005. 
 Congress typically appropriates slightly less money than the president seeks, which has not been enough to keep up with the growing number of taxpayers and the increasing complexity and procedural rules of the tax system, resulting in a sharp decline in enforcement -- especially against corporations and wealthy individuals, whose returns are more difficult and expensive to audit.
 Mr. Everson said that while he had no dispute with the data, ''I disagree with the characterization'' of the Bush administration as having allowed tax law enforcement to slide.
 ''Am I overall satisfied?'' Mr. Everson asked. ''No. I am not satisfied with the enforcement numbers. We do need to do more and that is particularly why we have asked for a large enforcement'' budget increase for fiscal 2005. 
 The increase Mr. Bush requested is 4.8 percent, all of which may end up going to incremental costs for the existing I.R.S. staff. The I.R.S. Oversight Board, a panel of business experts Congress created to monitor the agency, wants an increase of more than double that amount, warning that enforcement will otherwise continue to dwindle to the detriment of honest taxpayers.
 Mr. Everson said that when he took charge, ''I reversed the standing operating instruction, which was when you have a funding shortfall you take it against enforcement.'' He said audit figures should now start rising, though corporate audits would likely be the last to show improvement because of the time it takes to examine the tax returns of the largest corporations.
 He also noted a change in tactics at the Justice Department, which has been obtaining civil injunctions against people who deny the legitimacy of the tax laws and promote tax evasion. Judges have ordered the arrests of more than a half-dozen business owners who have not complied with civil orders to file returns and pay taxes, including Walter Thompson, the former owner of Cencal Aviation Products in Lake Shasta, Calif. Mr. Thompson, known as Al, is a leader in a movement that claims the tax laws are a trick. He stopped paying personal income tax in 1999 and stopped withholding income tax from his employees' paychecks a year later.
 Civil actions are far less costly than criminal prosecutions. In addition, the civil orders can be used against those the Justice Department does prosecute to show that they were on notice that taxes are mandatory, not voluntary. 
 Mr. Burnham said he was skeptical that any increase in tax law enforcement would occur this year or next. If reports by the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, and by the I.R.S. oversight board are correct, he said, ''the administration has not asked for sufficient money and staff, so law enforcement will continue to decline.''
 Mr. Burnham also expressed doubt that the I.R.S. could do more law enforcement with the same or fewer resources. He noted that data for the first four months of the current fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, show continuing declines in tax law enforcement.
 Among the largest corporations, the 11,200 with more than $250 million of assets, the audit rate in fiscal 2003 was 29 percent, compared with 33.7 percent the year before and more than 50 percent before 1996. The overall audit rate for corporations of all sizes was 7.3 percent, down from 8.8 percent a year earlier and 29.7 percent in 1993.
 The severe drop in audits of corporations raises questions about corporate income tax receipts, which have fallen to historically low levels when counted as a portion of the economy. In 2003, the receipts were a little more than 1 percent of the economy. From 1996 through 2000, no corporate taxes were paid by 60 percent of large corporations, according to a report two weeks ago by the General Accounting Office.
 Audits of partnerships and other entities that are not themselves taxable, but whose profits are taxable to their owners, also slipped. The audit rate for fiscal 2003 was 32 for each thousand returns, down slightly from a rate of 33 the year before and 55 in 1993. 
 Among large taxpayers, only in audits of high-income individuals was there any increase in scrutiny of tax returns in fiscal 2003 and it was only a slight rise. Among people reporting more than $100,000 of income, the I.R.S. audited four returns of every thousand, up from 3.8 returns in fiscal 2002 but still less than one-half of 1 percent. 
 This tiny increase was more than offset by a slip in auditing returns of sole proprietorships, which file a Schedule C tax return, to 11 of every thousand returns, from 11.4 in 2002. Nina E. Olson, the I.R.S. taxpayer advocate, said in January that Schedule C businesses represent one of the best opportunities for tax cheats. 
 The data showing a continuing erosion of tax law enforcement come days after it was disclosed that the Bush administration rejected an I.R.S. request for an additional $12 million, a 50 percent increase, in its budget for investigating the financing of terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda and Hamas.
 The White House declined requests to explain the rejection but noted that it did ask for a 16 percent increase in the $46.8 million overall federal spending this year to track terrorist finances.
 The I.R.S. Oversight Board noted that President Bush's proposed budget for fiscal 2005 is ''the fourth year in a row in which the administration has called for I.R.S. staff increases while not covering pay raises or required expenses.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about a decline in Internal Revenue Service audits of companies misstated the percentage of corporate returns audited in 1993, 2002 and 2003. In 1993, it was 2.97 percent (not 29.7). In 2002 it was 0.88 percent (not 8.8), and last year it was 0.73 percent (not 7.3).


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Fewer Audits''The country's largest corporations -- those with assets of $250 million or more --have been getting fewer and fewer face-to-face audits of their income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service. In 2003, there were about 11,200 of these companies.Graph tracks the audit rate since 1992. (Source by Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, Syracuse University)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); TAX FRAUD (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AUDITS (90%); TAX AUDITS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); SENTENCING (76%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); TRENDS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%) Taxation; Tax Evasion; Research; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (93%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%) Syracuse University; Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MARK W EVERSON (57%) David Cay Johnston; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



288 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Saudi and American Elites Find Friends in High Places

BYLINE: By CHARLES A. KUPCHAN. 
Charles A. Kupchan is a professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:

HOUSE OF BUSH, HOUSE OF SAUD
The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties
By Craig Unger
356 pages. Scribner. $26
 ''House of Bush, House of Saud'' is a book with dual aspirations. On one hand Craig Unger seeks to chronicle the intertwined ascent of two powerful dynasties, the Bush family in the United States and the royal family of Saudi Arabia. On the other he attempts to establish that close connection became pernicious collusion, contending that ''the secret relationship between these two great families helped trigger the Age of Terror and give rise to the tragedy of 9/11.''
 Mr. Unger succeeds in the first task, detailing the business interests and personal friendships that evolved between the Bush family's inner circle and the Saudi elite. The book, however, falls well short of its second aim, with Mr. Unger failing to provide persuasive evidence implicating the ties between the two families in the terror attacks of 9/11.
 The story begins in the 1970's, when the Saudi elite arrived in Houston and pumped petrodollars into the local economy. Members of the bin Laden family and Prince Bandar bin Sultan, who would later become Riyadh's ambassador to Washington, were among those who developed close contacts with Texas's political establishment, including individuals linked to the Bush family.
 After the 1979 Iranian revolution and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia became America's principal ally in the Persian Gulf. While George H. W. Bush was vice president, Washington and Riyadh overtly and covertly teamed up to expand Saudi Arabia's military capability, offer support to Iraq in its war with Iran, back the mujahadeen fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan and even to finance the contras. The heyday of the partnership came in 1991 -- after Bush senior had succeeded President Ronald Reagan -- when the United States and its allies used Saudi Arabia as a staging ground for ousting Iraq from Kuwait.
 Companies with connections to the Bush family and the House of Saud benefited handsomely from this partnership, Mr. Unger contends. The financial ties deepened after the formation in 1987 of the Carlyle Group, an international private equity company whose partners and advisers have included the elder Bush; James A. Baker III, his former secretary of state; and Frank C. Carlucci, former secretary of defense in the Reagan administration. George W. Bush was on the board of a Carlyle subsidiary before he was governor of Texas. The Carlyle Group and its affiliates have done much business with Saudi Arabia, as has Halliburton, a company previously headed by Vice President Dick Cheney. Mr. Unger claims that ''$1.4 billion has made its way from the House of Saud to individuals and entities tied to the House of Bush.''
 As does Kevin Phillips in his recent ''American Dynasty,'' Mr. Unger does an admirable job revealing how extensively the Bushes parlayed family connections into wealth and power, describing the too cozy interplay of public policy, political opportunity and economic gain.
 Mr. Unger stumbles seriously, however, when he posits a direct link between the Bush-Saud connection and the events of 9/11. His main claim is that the Bush family's close ties to Saudi Arabia prevented President George W. Bush from confronting the House of Saud about Islamic extremism and the threat posed by Al Qaeda. ''Given the Bush family's relationship with the House of Saud,'' he asks, ''how closely would the new administration examine the rise of Islamist terrorism?'' 
 Not very closely, is Mr. Unger's answer, but he fails to substantiate that assertion. With the advantage of hindsight, President Bush certainly appears to have responded with insufficient urgency to intelligence warnings that Al Qaeda posed an imminent danger. 
 But there is no evidence linking President Bush's complacency to his affection for the House of Saud. Rather, it appears that his ex-cold war advisers were focusing the president's attention on more traditional threats. Nor is there evidence that the Saudi ruling family, although it has close ties to the fundamentalist Wahhabi sect of Islam and may well have turned a blind eye to the financing of extremists, knowingly sponsored Al Qaeda.
 Furthermore, testimony before the 9/11 commission reveals that both the Clinton and Bush administrations saw few options for striking at Al Qaeda. Prior to 9/11 there was no political support for invading Afghanistan, the best way to neutralize Al Qaeda. Mr. Unger chides President Bush for not using the Predator drone to try to kill Osama bin Laden. But there were obstacles other than his alleged reluctance to take on Islamic terror because of his fondness for the royal family. During the Clinton administration, for example, C.I.A. officials had maintained that Mr. bin Laden could be lawfully killed only if he died in an operation intended to capture him.
 Mr. Unger also questions the Bush administration's motives in helping Saudi elites leave the United States in the days immediately following 9/11. Despite the restrictions on air traffic, the F.B.I. and other relevant agencies arranged for private aircraft to gather prominent Saudis -- including members of the bin Laden family -- from different parts of the country to enable them to begin departing the United States on Sept. 16.
 Mr. Unger does an impressive job of reporting this admittedly puzzling effort to shepherd Saudis out of the country even as the investigation into the attacks was just beginning. The House of Saud's connections to the Bush family surely mattered; Prince Bandar visited the president in the White House on Sept. 13. But the episode demonstrates only the administration's concern for the safety of prominent Saudis during the tense days after the attacks, not that the president was coddling the sponsors of terrorism.
 The Bush administration's handling of foreign affairs can be legitimately criticized on many counts, its errant war in Iraq and its dismissive attitudes toward allies most prominent among them. Mr. Bush's critics have plenty of ammunition and need not muddy the waters by mounting attacks based on loose innuendo rather than compelling evidence.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Unger (Photo by James Hamilton/Scribner) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); LITERATURE (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); EVIDENCE (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews; United States International Relations

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); CG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%) Charles A Kupchan; Craig Unger; George W (Pres) Bush; George (Former Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (72%) TEXAS, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%) SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



289 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Loans Have Big Impact on Poor

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
Trekking along the dusty rural roads of Shamsabad, a village near Hyderabad, a technology hub in southern India, Vinod Khosla, one of the most successful venture capitalists in the United States, was as far removed from his Silicon Valley office as he could get. 
 Mr. Khosla was in Shamsabad one afternoon in February listening to rural women recount how the tiny loans they had received from a microfinance program run by Share Microfin had helped them start home-grown businesses, transformed their poverty-striken lives and made better education possible for their children. 
 Microfinance is a long way from the world of venture capital where Mr. Khosla, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers, a venture capital business, and a co-founder of Sun Microsystems, has earned a formidable reputation as the man with the Midas touch. But in February he said he would start working part time at his company to spend more time with his family and on his passion: supporting microcredit initiatives for impoverished regions. 
 The Share program, or Society for Helping and Awakening Rural Poor Through Education, was founded in 1991 by M. Udaia Kumar, who had been involved in providing training programs to poor rural entrepreneurs. The program has reached 300,000 needy families with loans totaling $75 million. 
 ''I was completely blown as I listened to the stories of these tenacious women,'' Mr. Khosla said. ''I started crying.'' In his view, the microfinance initiatives he visited in India and Bangladesh in February ran more efficiently than most Silicon Valley organizations. ''They have sophisticated credit algorithms,'' he said. ''Does the woman own a buffalo? Some chickens? Does she have a toilet in her home? What kind of roofing material does her home have? Does she bring a shawl to the village meeting?'' 
 In India, microloans are usually disbursed to poor women whose total family assets are less than 20,000 rupees ($459) and whose monthly income is smaller than 350 rupees. Yet microfinance initiatives have a phenomenal repayment rate averaging more than 95 percent, better than the best commercial banks in the world. Many of the programs are highly profitable, Mr. Khosla said, adding that ''microfinance is one of the most important economic phenomena in the world in the last 50 years.'' 
 His favorite story is that of Sivamma, a 35-year-old woman from the Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh who goes by one name. Four years ago, she took a loan of 2,000 rupees ($45) from Spandana, a microfinance initiative based there and built a successful business by employing 250 women to collect human hair. When the women travel to the nearby villages with the small toys that she buys for them, small children greet them and exchange handfuls of hair for the toys.
 The hair is collected and sold to a leading Indian hair exporter in Madras, from where it eventually finds its way to the United States and other Western countries to be used for wigs and hairpieces. Sivamma's return on investment has been more than a hundredfold. 
 Sivamma's pride is the $3,000 home she built from the profits, the $700 motorbike she bought for her husband and her $1,000 savings. 
 Mr. Khosla said he intended to invest some of his own wealth as well as time in microfinance projects. Though he declined to give specifics about how he will allocate his time and money, Mr. Khosla said that he would continue to make investments with Kleiner Perkins's new $400 million fund for technology and life sciences start-ups. ''I've just made the fund's first investment,'' he said. 
 For the next four or five years, Mr. Khosla said, his time commitment to venture capital activities would ''be more like 75 percent.'' 
 Having a successful, high-profile venture capitalist with hundreds of millions of dollars in personal wealth devote attention to microfinance initiatives is invigorating for the fledgling industry.
 ''Vinod Khosla has a reputation as a visionary and as a person who is able to identify industry trends well before others,'' said Maggie Nielson, vice president for strategic development of Unitus, an organization based in Redmond, Wash., that helps provide capital financing and strategic help to microfinance initiatives. ''Having someone with his credibility endorse this relatively unknown industry brings significant attention.'' 
 An estimated 3,000 microfinance initiatives serve the world's poor but a scarcity of money has limited their expansion. More than 70 percent of them serve fewer than 2,500 borrowers each. 
 Only 30 microfinance initiatives have grown to serve more than 100,000 poor borrowers. One of them, the pioneering Grameen Bank in Bangladesh, reaches more than three million borrowers. A total of $4 billion has been disbursed since Grameen started making loans in 1976 with seed loans starting as small as $35.
 The majority of the microfinance initiatives struggle to find grant financing and to stay in business. The money they do receive is often in small grants of $5,000 to $50,000. The ventures are typically viewed as risky propositions for loans from commercial banks. 
 But advocates hope Mr. Khosla's evangelism for the initiatives will help them increase support from mainstream institutions. 
 Some microfinance projects are tapping into commercial financial institutions. In India, the Grameen Foundation is starting a company called Grameen Capital India in partnership with Citigroup and India's leading ICICI Bank to help microfinance initiatives get guarantees for financing. 
 And business leaders and entrepreneurs are increasingly seeking to support microfinance organizations because of their financial soundness and broad social impact, said Julie Stahl, program officer of the Grameen Foundation USA.
 ''We are seeing a groundswell of support coming from leaders in the high-tech and venture capital worlds,'' Ms. Stahl said. Bob Gay, managing director of Bain Capital; Mike Murray, a former vice president at Microsoft; Rob Glaser, founder of RealNetworks; and Craig McCaw, a pioneer in the wireless industry, for example, have all been involved with microfinance projects.
 It was heartening, Mr. Khosla said, to see that the entrepreneurial principles of Silicon Valley applied just as well in rural India and Bangladesh. ''Granted, they are not as profitable as Google, but they have the same level of social impact.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vinod Khosla and his wife, Neeru, both standing at right, met people who took small loans to improve their lives in India. (Photo by Julie Stahl/Grameen Foundation USA)
 An entrepreneur who borrowed through a microfinance program shows off her new house, back, and the hut where she once lived in Andhra Pradesh, India. (Photo by Vinod Khosla)Map of India shows the location of Shamsabad: A loan program run by Share Microfin has helped Shamsabad residents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); MICROFINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: VINOD KHOSLA (92%) Saritha Rai; Vinod Khosla

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH INDIA (92%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (90%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) India; Bangladesh

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



290 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Attends Easter Services and Receives Holy Communion

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 11 

 BODY:
Despite the growing anxiety of several national Roman Catholic leaders, Senator John Kerry took communion here on Sunday at Easter services at the Paulist Center, a nontraditional church that describes itself as ''a worship community of Christians in the Roman Catholic tradition'' and which attracts people drawn to its dedication to ''family religious education and social justice.''
 Mr. Kerry's decision to receive communion amounts to a challenge to several prominent Catholic bishops, who have become increasingly exasperated with politicians who are Catholic but who deviate from Catholic teaching.
 Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, supports abortion rights and stem-cell research, both of which are contrary to church teaching. He and his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, are regular worshipers at the Paulist Center, which is near their home in Beacon Hill. 
 In November, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops organized a task force headed by Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick, the archbishop of Washington, to study how the church should treat Catholic politicians like Mr. Kerry, who say they are personally opposed to abortion, for example, but support abortion rights legislatively.
 There has been a long line of such politicians, including Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor of New York, and Geraldine A. Ferraro, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate in 1984.
 The task force has not issued specific recommendations, but some members have discussed a range of penalties, from withholding communion to excommunication.
 In a television interview on Sunday, Cardinal McCarrick indicated that depriving a Catholic of communion would be a last resort that he, for one, would be reluctant to take.
 ''I think there are many of us who would feel that there are certain restrictions that we might put on people, that there are certain sanctions that we may put on people,'' he told ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''But I think many of us would not like to use the Eucharist as part of the sanctions.''
 But in February, the archbishop of St. Louis, Raymond L. Burke, warned Mr. Kerry before the Missouri primary that he would not serve him communion because the senator defied church teaching.
 Archbishop Sean P. O'Malley of Boston has not explicitly said Mr. Kerry could not take communion but he has suggested that Catholic politicians whose political views contradict Catholic teaching should abstain, saying they ''shouldn't dare come to communion.''
 There were no protesters at Sunday's services, and it was not clear whether Mr. Kerry's taking communion would bring a response from the Catholic Church or affect his campaign as he seeks to become only the second Roman Catholic president of the United States, after John F. Kennedy.
 ''It was a wonderful service,'' Mr. Kerry told reporters afterward. As he emerged from the church, he received a sustained ovation. He shook hands with several people and posed for pictures, then ducked back into the vestibule to thank the priest.
 Mr. Kerry will head to New Hampshire on Monday and expects to have several Democratic colleagues around the country join him in a coordinated attack on President Bush's handling of the economy.
 In its continuing effort to make the economy the central issue in the presidential race, the Kerry campaign on Sunday released a ''misery index'' that purports to show that under Mr. Bush, the economic power of middle-class families has deteriorated at record levels.
 The index is based on median family income, private-sector job growth, the rate of home ownership, the increase in the number of personal bankruptcies and the cost of college tuition, health care and gasoline.
 The Kerry campaign has computed that the ''misery index'' in the last three years under Mr. Bush has been the worst in three decades, with the biggest problems being the rise in college tuition (up 13 percent from 2002 to 2003), the loss of private-sector jobs, the rise in health insurance premiums and the decline in family income.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 12 about uneasiness among several Roman Catholic bishops over the way to respond to Catholic politicians, including Senator John Kerry, who deviate from church teaching referred imprecisely to the church's position on stem cell research. While the church supports work on adult cells, it does not believe -- as Mr. Kerry does -- that embryonic stem cells should be used.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry arriving yesterday at the Paulist Center. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Abortion; Communion (Religious Rite); Law and Legislation ; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (83%) Roman Catholic Church; United States Conference of Catholic Bishops

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Katharine Q Seelye; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



291 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: How Rankings Rate

BYLINE: By Austan Goolsbee. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
From best-selling book lists to Zagat dinner recommendations to David Letterman's top 10, it's clear that Americans love rankings. Little surprise, then, that the release this month of U.S. News & World Report's annual ratings of the nation's graduate schools has prospective students swarming newsstands for advice on where to go. The list has an undeniably huge impact. Applications typically soar at universities that get top marks; some state governments even use the rankings to help them decide how much money to give to their universities.
 Critics argue that rankings like these try to quantify the unquantifiable -- that variables used to measure quality are often flawed and incomplete. But the often overlooked, and perhaps more troubling, problem is that the average person who uses these rankings may not understand basic statistics. If he did, he would know that even if all the right variables were included, once he got past the top spots, the distinctions between schools (or restaurants or places to retire) are often meaningless. 
 Take a look at the sales ranking data at Amazon.com. I once needed a publication, a World Bank technical paper on the regulatory environment in Bulgaria. The demand for technical working papers on Bulgaria being what it is, the publication's Amazon sales rank was extremely low (about 2.5 million down on the list). Yet after I bought it, a most amazing thing happened. My one purchase moved this working paper past almost one million other books. This happened because once buyers get out of the best sellers -- where the difference in sales can be enormous -- almost everything else is basically tied. The differences in rank are statistically meaningless, and small blips cause big changes.
 This same is true for the rankings of all sorts of things. In the New York City Zagat guide, for example, a restaurant that raised its food rating by three points would pass 50 restaurants if it went from 25 to 28 (from ''excellent'' to ''extraordinary''), but 439 establishments if it went from 19 to 22 (both considered ''very good'').
 Then there are the education rankings. For the large mass of schools that rate in the middle of lists like U.S. News & World Report's, rankings are extremely sensitive to small blips. Any criteria included in a survey, like undergraduate grade point average or percentage of applicants accepted, will have random variations over time.
 This is perfectly normal. These fluctuations, though, cause the rankings of schools in the middle to move all over the place. It's why schools at the top seldom move more than a place or two, but the Tippie College of Business at the University of Iowa can move up five spots one year and down 18 the next (which is what just happened).
 This sensitivity to small changes also tends to encourage bad behavior among university administrators. Some, for example, no longer report foreign students' verbal scores on standardized admissions tests to get an overall better result, or have wait-listed candidates that are likely to turn their schools down so their university looks more selective. These things may raise measured performance a tiny bit, but tiny bits can mean a lot when everyone is clustered in the middle.
 The lessons are pretty obvious: outside the very top, be careful about basing decisions on rankings data. The differences are often statistically meaningless. If possible, whether you're interested in schools or restaurants, look at the last several surveys, instead of just the most recent one, since random blips tend to average out over time. Certainly don't pick a Chinese restaurant tonight because its rating is 20 versus another's 19.
 For those who really can't get enough, it's now possible to find rankings of the rankings. U.S. News & World Report may get lots of attention, but as of last week its ''Ultimate College Directory'' for 2004 had an Amazon sales rank of 22,305, worse than the Intercollegiate Studies Institute's ''Choosing the Right College 2004'' at 19,752.
 How is a rankings addict to choose? Next time, perhaps, you would do well to consider an alternative: the informative (and surprisingly popular) ''Cartoon Guide to Statistics.'' Its sales rank is 8,600.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by M.K. Perker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%) Ratings and Rating Systems; Restaurants ; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (93%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (73%) Austan (Prof) Goolsbee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BULGARIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



292 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: A Better Way To Count Workers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Labor's Lost Jobs'' (Op-Ed, April 7):
 The argument put forward by Tim Kane of the Heritage Foundation, that the more optimistic household survey reflects current employment trends better than the payroll survey, is out of the economic mainstream.
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Kathleen Utgoff, the commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, agree that the payroll survey is the better measure. Ms. Utgoff in particular should know: the bureau conducts both surveys.
 No matter how much conservative ideologues may want to deny it, 2.2 million private-sector jobs have been lost on President Bush's watch. 
 But even if the household survey is correct, President Bush has presided over an economy that has created only 508,000 jobs, compared with 9.2 million in the first Clinton administration and 9.4 million in the second.
 This administration's jobs record is abominable by any measure.

FRANK R. LAUTENBERG
U.S Senator from New Jersey
Washington, April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); SALARY SURVEYS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (73%); TRENDS (72%); STATISTICS (70%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (75%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) Frank R (Sen) Lautenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004



293 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Clear Skies No More for Millions as Pollution Rule Expands

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, April 8 

 BODY:
More than half the nation's population lives in or around areas that violate clean air standards, according to a list to be released on April 15 by the federal government.
 The list is a long-delayed result of federal standards revised in 1997 and will sweep beyond traditional smog-filled metropolises like Houston, Los Angeles and New York to encompass smaller cities like Little Rock, Ark., and Birmingham, Ala., where the air appears relatively clear. In San Antonio, which has begun taking steps to combat air pollution, the local government broadcasts warnings telling children not to play outside even on some days when the skies are azure blue. 
 Rural communities will be affected along with at least seven national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains in North Carolina and Tennessee, Acadia in Maine and Yosemite in California. 
 On April 15, the Environmental Protection Agency will release a list of about 500 counties that violate or contribute to violations of ground-level ozone, more than double the number listed under older standards. Ground-level ozone, which is odorless and invisible, is a major component of smog on hot summer days. Prolonged exposure causes the equivalent of sunburn to the lungs.
 The revised federal standards have wide economic and environmental implications and the makeup of the list has been the subject of lobbying in Washington. Areas in violation face the loss of federal money for roads. Industrial development can be barred in those areas unless companies prove that they would not make pollution worse.
 ''A lot of counties feel if they are in, it will have negative impact on their economic development plans,'' said Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio. Like many members of Congress, he said he has been deluged by letters and calls from local officials worried that the revised standards ''will cause the loss of jobs, restrict economic growth, discourage plant location and encourage manufacturers to move overseas.''
 Since passage of the 1970 Clean Air Act, the country's air is significantly cleaner, but scientific research continues to ratchet down the amount of pollution that is considered healthy to breathe. One reason for the dirty-air designations is ''to communicate to the residents of the areas that the air they are breathing is not as healthy as our national standards,'' said Michael O. Leavitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, which makes the determinations.
 The new designations are a result of a process that started in 1997 when the Clinton administration tightened standards for ozone and fine particulate soot, which lodges in the lungs and contributes to lung disease, heart attacks and premature death.
 The old ozone rules measured peak exposures over one-hour periods. But dozens of studies showed that persistent exposure to low levels of ozone damages the respiratory and immune systems. The tighter standards measure ozone over eight hours.
 Industry challenges to the revised standards rose to the Supreme Court, which unanimously rejected the arguments in 2001 and allowed the E.P.A. to begin the multiyear process to determine which areas were in violation. On April 15, the agency will release areas in violation of the ozone standards. In December, it will announce which counties exceed limits for soot.
 A number of states contend that the revised standards are so strict that even if their counties drastically reduced their own air emissions, pollution from other states, notably power plant pollution that blows long distances, would still push them into violation.
 ''There are counties that could take all their cars off the roads, close their factories and clean up their power plants and still not be in attainment,'' Mr. Leavitt said at a Senate hearing last month. To combat that problem, the agency has proposed reducing pollution from coal-fired plants in the eastern United States by allowing plants to buy and sell the right to emit sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, with a lowering of overall pollution limits over time.
 Almost 300 counties are expected to be deemed in violation of the revised ozone rules on Thursday. But about 200 neighboring counties will face restrictions because they are considered contributors to the ozone pollution in the counties that violate the rules. In all, about 160 million people will live in areas affected by the revised standards, up from 110 million affected by the old rules.
 Many states and locales are reviewing strategies that would intimately affect how people live -- from cutting speed limits by 5 miles per hour, to discouraging house painting during summer months, to giving tax breaks to businesses that encourage telecommuting.
 ''It will underscore vividly that almost all of our activities during the day directly or indirectly contribute to air pollution and smog levels,'' said William Becker, the executive director of the State and Territorial Air Pollution Program Administrators and the Association of Local Air Pollution Control Officials.
 States will have three years to come up with detailed plans on how they would reduce the two main ingredients of ground-level ozone: nitrogen oxides, which are emitted through combustion, and volatile organic compounds, gases that evaporate from gasoline and paints.
 Actions taken by some 30 metropolitan areas, including San Antonio, offer an early look at the kind of measures that will be adopted by states and cities over the next decade. These areas, which are in violation of the revised standards generally by slim margins, have signed agreements with the E.P.A. to reduce pollution early to avoid some of the regulatory consequences.
 In San Antonio, where tractor-trailers, Ford F-150 pickup trucks and chunky S.U.V.'s ring the city on the shimmering highways, local officials are looking for ways large and small to nibble away at air pollution.
 They are keen on maintaining a healthy-air designation, believing it helped them attract an $800 million Toyota plant last year while Dallas, a competitor, had additional regulatory burdens from clean-air violations.
 San Antonio has asked refineries to reformulate gasoline to lower car pollution. School districts have pushed the start of the academic year after the hottest parts of August, in part to reduce the need for air-conditioning and the pollution from electricity generation that produces it. Schools also are organizing students to walk to and from school in groups with parental chaperons to cut back on cars using the roads and idling in front of schools.
 Some companies are asking employees to bring lunch or eat in company cafeterias to cut down on traffic during the hottest part of the day. Some businesses are discouraging use of drive-through lanes, asking customers to park and come inside.
 ''We are looking for small habit changes that people can keep up over a lifetime,'' said Dorothy Birch, who manages the ozone outreach programs for the Alamo Area Council of Governments. ''There is no crumb too small.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: To cut pollution, San Antonio asks parents to walk children to school. From left, Ashley, Jordan and Juwan Paxton, Abraham Wilkerson and Weldon Gaither are watched by Abraham's mother, Olivia Robinson, rear. (Photo by Amber Novak for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Polluted Air''On Thursday, the Environmental Protection Agency will release a list of about 500 counties that are in violation of federal clean air standards for ozone, or contribute to violations of the standards. Counties shown are on the E.P.A.'s proposed list from December.Map of the United States highlighting areas in the country that are in violation of federal clean air standards for ozone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); SMOG (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (74%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); MOUNTAINS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); BURN INJURIES (66%); LAYOFFS (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (61%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); HEART DISEASE (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (54%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%) Air Pollution; Ozone; States (US); Smog; Law and Legislation; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (57%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (57%) Jennifer 8 Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



294 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; A New Face For Lincoln Center

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Plan Turns a Neglected Alley Into a More Welcoming Space

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Audiences attending a Shakespeare play at Lincoln Center Theater or a Mostly Mozart concert at Alice Tully Hall will dine in a new restaurant with glass walls overlooking the reflecting pool and the Henry Moore sculpture. Students from Juilliard and the School of American Ballet will study and picnic on the restaurant's sloping grass roof. Ticket buyers will scan the scrolling electronic billboards, deciding whether to sample French cinema at the Film Society, ''Rigoletto'' at the Metropolitan Opera or ''Coppelia'' at the New York State Theater.
 Gone is the ungainly bridge that crosses West 65th Street, gone are the forbidding high stone walls that currently enclose the buildings, reduced is the wide street on which cars now hurtle east even as audiences are massing for performances. 
 Such is the $325 million transformation of Lincoln Center's main artery envisioned for the first phase of its ambitious redevelopment project, to be unveiled today to the public. Construction is to begin in the spring of 2006 and to be completed by January 2009. 
 Nearly 50 years since New York City's Board of Estimate agreed to designate Lincoln Square for urban renewal, the reconstruction project of West 65th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue and the seven arts groups along it signals a new chapter in Lincoln Center's architectural history and artistic identity. ''We want to create a street of the arts,'' said Rebecca Robertson, executive director of the redevelopment. ''To take what is now a neglected alley and make it a famous street.''
 As plans move ahead for 65th Street, this is the first time the 11 constituent groups involved have arrived at a consensus after years of contention over various aspects of the redevelopment, which was announced in 1999. The project has been complicated by internal conflicts on the campus, most recently the Met refused to sign off on plans unless they guaranteed continued garage access for patrons on West 65th Street. 
 The project is also tied to the city's financial health, since Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani committed $240 million in capital funds to the project. The approval of the plans means fund-raising and actual construction can finally begin, following review by city agencies.
 The redesign calls for a markedly different physical environment at Lincoln Center, tempering the dominant stone structures with more greenery and glass. In particular the design seeks to make Lincoln Center appear more open and accessible to the neighborhood around it, including the housing projects and public high schools on Amsterdam Avenue. At a time when cultural organizations nationwide are struggling to lure new audiences and compete with electronic media, Lincoln Center wants to appear less like an intimidating ivory tower of culture and more like a user-friendly arts campus. ''It's really important to us, to present a new and welcoming face to our neighbors to the west,'' said Reynold Levy, president of Lincoln Center. 
 During construction Alice Tully Hall will be closed for a year. A renovation of Avery Fisher Hall, postponed by the Philharmonic's aborted merger with Carnegie Hall, will not begin until the 65th Street portion of the project is completed, Lincoln Center officials said, though planning is to begin immediately. ''We can't have those two halls closed at the same time,'' said Bruce Crawford, chairman of the redevelopment, speaking of Avery Fisher and Alice Tully.
 The plan by the firm Diller Scofidio & Renfro calls for a lively boulevard of bright marquees and bustling box offices. Glass walls replace opaque travertine, a narrow transparent footbridge traverses the street, a broad staircase invites people to lounge on the steps or head up into the north plaza, a wider sidewalk features entrances at ground level.
 The seven groups along West 65th Street are Juilliard, the School of American Ballet, Lincoln Center Theater (which includes the Vivian Beaumont and the Mitzi E. Newhouse), the Film Society, the Chamber Music Society, the Library for the Performing Arts and Lincoln Center Inc., which presents events at Alice Tully Hall. ''This is their front door,'' Ms. Robertson said.
 More than 20,000 people use the street daily, Lincoln Center officials said, including audiences, employees and students. A new film center is to have two theaters -- one with 190 seats, the other 90 seats -- and a new lecture hall with these interior spaces designed by the architect David Rockefeller. On the street 90 feet of wall space is to offer electronic information about what is going on inside. 
 Juilliard, too, is to have a new grand entrance and a 30-foot translucent wall publicizing its 600 free concerts as well as other events. The plans also call for new rehearsal rooms, a music-technology center, a student lounge, a new black-box theater and a dance studio with a large glass picture window visible from the street.
 Alice Tully Hall is to get a new dramatic, angular entrance along with a wedge of steps for people to sit on. 
 Plans call for a new lobby and a glass entrance canopy for Lincoln Center Theater as well as screens that alert stragglers about curtain time approaching. 
 The sidewalk on 65th Street is to be widened to 27 feet from 15 feet; the street itself is to be narrowed to 38 feet from 50.
 Garage access on 65th Street, which the Metropolitan Opera fought to keep, will be routed through the north side of the block rather than the south side, where pedestrians are concentrated. New entrances to the garage will open on West 63rd Street and West 64th Street with access from Amsterdam Avenue. A seven-month public review process is to include presentations to the community board, the borough president and the city council. The next phase of the project is to include an upgrade of Josie Robertson Plaza, where the fountain is situated; Damrosch Park, the grassy area adjacent to the Metropolitan Opera house; and Avery Fisher Hall.
 As part of the 65th Street plan the reflecting pool is to be elongated slightly, and a black granite plinth is to be installed over which a thin membrane of water will flow. When drained, the pool can be used as a platform for showing films outdoors. 
 The new restaurant's 11,000-square-foot lawn roof will be made of real grass with a synthetic base, along the lines of those at Bryant Park and Fordham University. The restaurant underneath will seat 220 people; a chef has yet to be determined. The staircase up from 65th Street to the north plaza is to be widened to 52 feet from 38 feet with a gentler slope that will allow passers-by to see into the plaza from the street and invite people to sit on the steps.
 ''This is what we feel is missing at Lincoln Center,'' Ms. Robertson said, ''people just hanging out.'' 
 The southeast corner of 65th Street and Amsterdam Avenue is to have a juice or coffee bar, a staircase into the plaza and electronic information about center goings-on. On the southwest corner of 66th and Broadway will be a retail store into which Juilliard's current bookstore will be integrated. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts yesterday about Lincoln Center's plan to redesign its 65th Street corridor misstated the surname of the architect who is to design the interior of a new film center there. He is David Rockwell, not Rockefeller.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); OPERA (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITIES (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); DANCE EDUCATION (72%); APPROVALS (66%); THEATER (59%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Culture; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts (NYC)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%) Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



295 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: To Cabbies, Piece of Tin Is a Golden Opportunity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Victor Salazar drives his yellow taxicab seven days a week, usually 14 or 15 hours at a time. On a decent day, he stumbles back home with $150 after expenses -- including about $100 to lease the New York City taxi medallion on his hood.
 On a bad day, he loses money. It is not the easiest way to earn a living, but it is the only living he knows after more than two decades in this country. ''It's practically the only skill I have,'' he said, ''knowing the streets of New York.''
 So, for the last few weeks, Mr. Salazar, a voluble Ecuadorean immigrant who keeps pictures of his daughter and a niece on his dashboard, has been scrambling to come up with $25,000, down payment on a dream he has long been nursing -- buying his own medallion. 
 Hundreds of drivers in the city, many of them struggling immigrants like Mr. Salazar, have been doing the same, conferring with their banks, cajoling relatives and checking their savings, in preparation for a rare city auction this month of taxi medallions, which are expected to fetch more than $250,000 apiece.
 They are simply the aluminum shields affixed to taxi hoods; they bestow the seemingly unromantic right to operate a yellow taxicab in this city, the only kind of cab allowed to pick up street hails. But for generations of immigrants who first found their way in this country as cabbies, the medallions have stood for something far more precious: the chance to work for themselves and perhaps clamber up a few rungs in the economic ladder. 
 Last year, Mr. Salazar, 40, tried unsuccessfully to buy a medallion on the open market, giving more than $30,000 -- most of his savings -- to a Manhattan taxi broker, Fabio Diaz, who, Mr. Salazar said, ended up taking it without ever delivering the medallion. The authorities recently arrested Mr. Diaz in Florida, but Mr. Salazar's prospects of recovering his savings appear a long way off.
 Even so, Mr. Salazar remains bent on owning his medallion. Unlike most cabbies who rent medallions from a fleet, he owns his cab, and pays $680 a week to lease the medallion. He said he could use the money instead on monthly payments on a medallion, which he could sell for a profit when he stops driving. 
 He is cobbling together his savings, including what he hopes will be a hefty tax refund, and money lent from relatives. If he is still short, he may sell his wife's jewelry, perhaps even her engagement ring. On April 23, he will sweat it out with a few hundred other aspiring owners in an auditorium, awaiting the opening of sealed bids for 126 new medallions.
 Over the next three years, the city will auction off 300 medallions each year, only the second such sale since the city capped the number of licensed taxis in 1937 and representing the largest expansion of the city's taxi fleet since the Depression. By law, about 40 percent will be sold to individual owner-drivers and the rest to corporate taxi fleets, which rent out the medallions. The corporate auction takes place this Friday. 
 Medallion prices have exploded since World War II. Ownership could help pay for Mr. Salazar's retirement, he said, or his 10-year-old daughter's college tuition. Maybe he could even buy a home for him and his wife and his wife's sister and husband, who all now crowd a small apartment. But he also harbors a romanticism about a medallion.
 ''To me, owning a medallion means being part of New York City,'' he said. ''It means owning, not a slice, but a crumb of New York.''
 But a crumb can be enough. Drivers' ranks have been remade many times over the years, with each new wave of immigrants. Some have used ownership to catapult themselves out of the industry, but others have stayed, following the well-trodden path of yesterday's drivers becoming today's fleet owners.
 That is what Mohammed Mia, 24, and his cousin, Washim Bhuiyan, 23, are envisioning. ''We're trying to start by two,'' Mr. Mia said. Mr. Mia and his cousin came to the United States from the same small city in Bangladesh a few months apart in 1997. They began as deliverymen at a Domino's Pizza and eventually thought about buying a franchise, before learning it was too expensive.
 It was Mr. Mia who decided to get his hack license and try driving a cab, joining the legions of South Asians on the road. Now, they both work the night shift, six days a week, pulling a double shift on Mondays. 
 But they do not want to be driving forever, so they want to bid on a pair of corporate medallions. Unlike taxis with individual medallions, those with corporate medallions do not have to be driven by the owners, but they have to be staffed 24 hours a day and can be bought only in lots of two.
 A minimum bid on a set of corporate medallions has been set at $550,000, but they could go for well over $600,000, a steep price for drivers whose incomes barely reach $30,000 a year.
 With limited cash, the pair visited several lenders before finding one who was willing to give them a loan with only 15 percent down, instead of the usual 20 percent. To come up with the money if they win, they plan to tap a network of relatives and friends. They will draw on the same group to work their mini-fleet.
 But looming as a potential roadblock is Andrew Murstein, president of Medallion Financial Corporation, a taxi industry giant. Mr. Murstein's elegant Midtown office contrasts sharply with the crowded apartments in Queens where Mr. Mia and Mr. Bhuiyan plot strategy. 
 In many ways, Mr. Murstein epitomizes the possibilities of medallion ownership. His grandfather Leon, a Polish immigrant, first bought a medallion in 1937 for $10. Over 30 years, he built a fleet of 500. Eventually, he and his son, Alvin -- Andrew Murstein's father -- got into the business of lending to aspiring owners. 
 Mr. Murstein's company is backing the bids of 20 fleets, putting up most of the money and buying a majority stake in the medallions. The fleets will get to run the medallion, but Medallion Financial will get any increase in its value when it is sold. The consortium plans to bid on all the corporate medallions. ''In a way, we're like the New York Yankees,'' Mr. Murstein said. ''How are they going to compete with our payroll?'' 
 But those like Mr. Salazar will not have to worry about deep-pocketed competition in the individual auction; most bidders will be other immigrants like themselves, people who have scrimped and saved all their lives. 
 Loubert Alexandre, a Haitian driver, is trying to put three children through college and, like Mr. Salazar, is frustrated by leasing. ''It's like you're renting a house, opening the window and throwing the cash away,'' he said. 
 Mr. Alexandre, 45, almost bought a medallion in 1995, when the price was $175,000, but he backed out. When he heard about the auction, he went back to his old broker, Richard Chipman at Westway Medallion Sales, to put together a bid. To come up with the money, he is refinancing his home in Queens. But he has agonized over the decision, explaining, ''It's hard out there.''
 Typically, he starts his days at Kennedy Airport, playing dominoes and talking politics with other Haitian drivers in the holding lot. But the waits seem to have gotten longer, he said, and business overall has slowed considerably. 
 This morning, he has to visit his broker, so he starts in Manhattan. Mr. Alexandre came to the United States as a teenager. He dropped out of college after learning his girlfriend was pregnant. He married her and started working as a parking attendant, eventually becoming a supervisor. Today, with his children almost grown, he has become a cabdriver. 
 ''I never thought life was going to turn out the way it did,'' he says. After an hour, Mr. Alexandre has barely cleared $10. ''That's the dream they're talking about, eh?'' he says.

Hailing a Dream
 New York City will auction off 300 medallions each year for the next three years, the largest expansion of the taxi fleet since the Depression. Hundreds of people, mostly immigrants, are scraping money together to bid at auction on these precious tin slips that represent freedom, security and, perhaps one day, wealth. The corporate auction is this Friday; the individual auction is April 23. This series will follow several bidders through the auction process to the day when, with a little luck, they go to work with a shiny medallion of their own on their taxis yellow hood.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about New York City cabdrivers' preparations for a rare auction of taxi medallions referred incorrectly in some copies to the metal of which they are made. It is aluminum, not tin.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Victor Salazar in his taxicab with, from left, his daughter, Victoria, 10, and his nieces, Michelle Silva, 8, and Evelyn Salatos, 12. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Loubert Alexandre, a Haitian immigrant, hopes to buy a taxi medallion but worries about the cost. He is trying to put three children through college. He said of leasing a medallion, ''It's like you're renting a house, opening the window and throwing the cash away.'' Below, the view from his cab. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); AUCTIONS (87%); REFUGEES (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Immigration and Refugees; Auctions; Surveys and Series; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



296 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

15.2 MILLION FREE TRIPS -- More than 15.2 million passengers traveled during 2003 using frequent-flier awards on major domestic airlines surveyed, according to IdeaWorks, a consulting firm. IdeaWorks reviewed financial reports by various airlines to calculate the data. Comparable numbers for previous years were not available, but airlines maintain that free-trip awards have held steady in recent years as a percentage of total revenue passenger miles. In 2003, IdeaWorks estimated that frequent-flier awards trips represented an average of about 7.9 percent of revenue passenger miles on 10 airlines studied, said Jay Sorensen, the firm's president.

DRIVING COSTS RISE -- The average cost for owning and driving a new car in 2004 is 56.2 cents a mile, according to AAA, the automobile club. The figure reflects costs for depreciation, insurance, gasoline, maintenance and financing on a composite national average for three new cars: a subcompact Chevrolet Cavalier LS, a midsize Ford Taurus SEL Deluxe and a full-size Mercury Grand Marquis LS. The average assumes an anticipated 75,000 miles driven over five years. In 1994, the average mileage cost was 39.4 cents. AAA noted that the Internal Revenue Service's allowable tax deduction for business mileage, currently 37.5 cents a mile, has never allowed full reimbursement for all expenses associated with car ownership and use.

AIR FARE MAVEN'S NEW BUSINESS -- Terry Trippler, the frequently quoted air fare expert at Cheapseats.com, said that he left the online travel site and its parent company OneTravel.com yesterday to start a new business as a consultant. Mr. Trippler plans to give seminars to corporate travel managers and others about internal online travel booking, which is rapidly being adopted and even mandated by many companies for their traveling employees. ''We'll be going around the country explaining in detail how to use what's available to the best of their ability,'' he said.

AIRPORTS PREPARE FOR SUPERJUMBO -- The superjumbo jet is coming, and Munich Airport says it is the first in Europe with official clearance to handle the new Airbus A380 aircraft, which will carry 550 to 700 passengers when flights begin in 2006. Five other airports, all in Asia, currently meet the standards for handling and servicing the double-deck superjumbos, which have a 261-foot wing span, 49 feet longer than the Boeing 747. Other major airports worldwide are rushing preparations to remodel gates, widen taxiways and expand baggage handling operations for the plane. BAA, the company that operates Heathrow Airport outside London, is starting a $180 million redevelopment project this week to ready Pier 6 at Terminal 3 to handle the A380's. The new three-story Pier 6 will be nearly 1,000 feet long.

CLUELESS OVER SHOELESS -- Most passengers are confused about whether it is mandatory to remove their shoes at airport security checkpoints, according to a survey by Opinion Research Corp. Nearly a third say they think it is mandatory and another 23 percent say they are not sure. In fact, the Transportation Security Administration says that removing shoes is voluntary but that those tripping the magnetometer alarm because of metal in their shoes are subject to a more thorough and time-consuming secondary search. Incidentally, 2 percent of those surveyed say they believe that the shoe-removal policy varies by airport, no matter what the T.S.A. says. That's an opinion most frequent travelers would heartily agree with. The national survey of 1,013 adults has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. It was sponsored by ECCO, a Danish company that makes shoes without metal shanks.

TRAIN BEATS PLANE -- Eurostar, the high-speed train service between London, Paris and Brussels, said it had a record 19 percent increase in passenger traffic during the first quarter of 2004. More than 1.6 million passengers took Eurostar during that period, compared with 1.35 million in the first quarter a year earlier. On the London-Paris route, Eurostar's market share rose to 66 percent compared with 55 percent a year ago, as more passengers chose trains over planes.

GIVING UP PAPER -- Continental Airlines says it will eliminate paper tickets altogether by the end of this year, including those for international travel. Continental added that 95 percent of domestic passengers and 88 percent of all passengers now use electronic tickets. Other domestic airlines have said that while electronic tickets dominate in similar percentages, they will continue issuing paper tickets on demand, usually for a fee of $10 to $20.

AIRLINE OF THE YEAR -- Skytrax, the air travel research company based in Britain, announced results of its airline of the year survey, which drew more than 10 million nominations from world airline passengers this year. The top 10: Singapore Airlines, Emirates, Cathay Pacific Airways, Qantas Airways, Thai Airways, British Airways, Qatar Airways, Malaysia Airlines, Continental Airlines and ANA. In a separate category for best first-class international service, the top three were Cathay Pacific, Qantas and Singapore. In the category of best international business-class service, the top three were British Airways, Virgin Atlantic Airways and Qantas. In the economy-class category, the top three were Emirates, Malaysia and Singapore.

MILES FOR DALLAS CONNECTIONS -- Delta Air Lines said its SkyMiles frequent-flier program members can earn up to 2,000 bonus miles for each Delta and Delta Connection round trip connecting at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport from April 15 to June 30. To earn this bonus, members must travel on a paid ticket that connects, within four hours, with another Delta or Delta Connection flight at Dallas/Fort Worth, Delta said yesterday. JOE SHARKEY


GRAPHIC: ChartFrequent-flier awards as a percentage of airline companies' total revenue passenger miles* in 2003.Delta Air Lines: 9.0%United Airlines: 9.0Alaska Airlines: 8.7American Airlines: 7.8Continental Airlines: 7.6Northwest Airlines: 7.5Southwest Airlines: 7.5US Airways: 7.0Midwest Airlines: 5.0America West Airlines: 2.6*One passenger flown one mile.(Sources by Idea Works and airline company financial reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); AIR FARES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); AIRCRAFT MFG (66%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (60%) Travel and Vacations; Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Travel and Vacations; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Airports; Munich Airport; Security and Warning Systems; Shoes and Boots; Railroads; Travel and Vacations; Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport; Public Opinion; Records and Achievements; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: ONETRAVEL HOLDINGS INC (54%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%) IdeaWorks; Aaa; Cheapseats.com; Onetravel.com; Airbus Industrie; Opinion Research Corp; Continental Airlines; Skytrax Research; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: Terry Trippler; Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (52%) TEXAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (90%); ASIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (71%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; London (Eng); Paris (France); Brussels (Belgium); Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



297 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: In Asia, Seaports Battle to Be King of Containers

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: PUSAN, South Korea 

 BODY:
On paper, Shanghai and Pusan are sister cities, the largest seaports of China and South Korea, separated by 500 miles of the Yellow Sea.
 But last year, Shanghai dethroned its Korean rival and assumed the title of the busiest container port in Northeast Asia. 
 Last week, the Koreans counterattacked, unveiling a seven-year, $53 billion public and private investment program to double Pusan's docking wharves to six miles and to quadruple warehouse space to six square miles. But in Shanghai, bulldozers and dredges are already building a deepwater port at Yangshan Island. It will match the expansion planned at ''Busan New Port.'' (The name of the port is spelled traditionally as Pusan, but sometimes as Busan.) 
 Although Pusan's vast expanse of cranes, containers and oceangoing ships paints a picture of boundless commerce, some shipping analysts see overcapacity on the horizon of this stretch of the Korea Strait.
 In the 1990's, Pusan grew riding on the export booms of China and South Korea. Last year, about 40 percent of the 10.4 million containers that moved through here were transshipments, largely coming from China. While every economic player in Asia today tries to hitch a ride on China's rise, it is unclear if Pusan can keep surfing the waves of containers surging from China, factory to the world.
 ''The country with the really big volume is China,'' Neil Davidson, ports director for Drewry Shipping Consultants, a British maritime consultant firm, said from London. ''That is the export engine of the region with heavy volumes. And those volumes will move through Chinese ports.''
 So far Pusan's model of sorting and expediting other people's cargo has been successful. With cargo and ship visits tripling over the last decade, Pusan received an average of 35 ships a day last year.
 As the main port for South Korea, Pusan last year handled almost twice as many containers as Tokyo and Yokohama combined, the main ports for Japan. Japan's economy is almost four times larger than South Korea's.
 Low costs, efficiency of handling, and a central location at the southern end of Korea's peninsula have prompted shippers from Japan, China and Russia to feed their containers to Pusan for shipment onward to Europe and the United States.
 In a demonstration of its spirit, the port celebrated on March 30 a return to normal operations after a typhoon in September toppled or derailed 11 of the port's 52 gantry cranes for moving containers. The cranes were repaired or replaced in six months, half the forecast span.
 ''I was totally dejected and disappointed,'' Jung Ki Hyun, president of Dongbu Pusan Container Terminal, said on Friday, recalling how he felt looking out his office window at the damage. ''It looked like my babies falling over.''
 Despite a strike by truckers and the temporary loss of container handling cranes, Pusan managed to increase its cargo last year by 10 percent.
 Toward the end of last year, some of the shipping growth came on a surge of South Korean exports, a surge that continues today. In March, South Korea's exports were 40 percent higher than a year ago. Among the exports, cellphones were up 41 percent, cars up 54 percent, and semiconductors up 68 percent.
 Overall exports jumped 54 percent to China, now South Korea's largest trading partner. This export surge allowed the government on Friday to set a goal of 5 to 6 percent economic growth this year, double last year's level.
 Over the coming decade, shippers will have an easier time moving goods between here and Seoul, South Korea's two largest cities. Bullet train service that started here on April 1 will gradually take passenger trains off the nation's north-south tracks, freeing up rails for more container trains.
 But South Korea's ambitious expansion of Pusan, its premier port, is based on expanding transshipments to 44 percent of its cargo total by 2011.
 ''Chinese ports invest in import-export, not in transshipment,'' said Jung Bong Min, a senior researcher at Korea Maritime Institute, a government-financed agency. But, he admitted, the China trade may slowly slip away as shippers dispense with intermediaries. ''As cargo increases, more and more ships call directly at the Chinese ports. The need for feeder services decreases and the transshipment demand decreases.''
 In 2002, transshipment cargo through here increased 32.1 percent. Last year, it increased 8.8 percent. In the first two months of this year, it increased 1.2 percent -- far below the double-digit leaps recorded in Chinese trade.
 ''The transshipment cargo has been reduced, ships are going directly to Chinese ports,'' Mr. Jung said as he drove by one of his terminal's new 20-story high, $5 million cranes. 
 Unlike the bottlenecks that shippers now endure at China's largely government-owned bulk cargo ports, China's container ports are largely designed to international standards and run by private companies. These efficiencies increasingly allow shippers to bypass Pusan. Aspiring to become the Singapore of Northeast Asia, Pusan is developing business with smaller Chinese ports and is luring cargo from Japanese ports, where cargo handling costs are about three times as high as here.
 With Japanese land and labor costs generally the loftiest in Asia, Japanese shippers and manufacturers are studying the new Pusan port expansion area with the goal of using the vast warehouses for packing, processing, and storing. 
 ''This is a new situation,'' Choo June Suk, president of the 10-week-old Busan Port Authority, said in an interview. ''Japanese distributors and businessmen are visiting the Port of Pusan and are interested in the 'hinterland' of the new port, three million square meters,'' he said, referring to the new warehouse area of the port. 
 South Koreans believe that this onshore area will define the large ports of the future.
 ''The growth of Shanghai can be a threat, but it can also be a opportunity,'' said Mr. Jung, arguing that Pusan's land facilities will add a value that China's largest port will not be able to match.
 Acutely aware that the container business is highly competitive, the port has cut fees in recent months. Announcing the cuts, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries said in a statement: ''Transshipment cargo volume is falling as ports in China are expanding at a rapid pace." 
 To further diversify, terminal operators are cultivating new markets.
 ''Russia is small, but growing,'' Mr. Jung said driving along the docks here. ''The big ships do not call there because, the ports are too small, and there is less cargo.''
 But the Russian Far East will never be more than a sideshow for a megaport like Pusan. Last year, Pusan handled in five days the entire container cargo handled in one year by Vostochnyy, Russia's busiest Pacific port.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Last year, Shanghai, above, dethroned Pusan, its South Korean rival, and assumed the title of the busiest container port in Northeast Asia. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (92%); CONTAINERIZATION (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); SURFING (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%) Ports; Containerization; Dredges and Dredging

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) EAST CHINA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) China; South Korea; Shanghai (China); Pusan (South Korea); Yangshan Island

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



298 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Energy-Related Shares Lead an Increase on Wall Street

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, led by energy-related shares like Exxon Mobil and BJ Services, as oil and gasoline prices surged. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had its first advance in a week.
 The S.&P. 500 gained 5.88 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,145.20. Energy shares accounted for a fifth of the advance. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 73.53 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,515.56. The Nasdaq composite index added 12.60 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,065.48. 
 About the same number of stocks rose and fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.08 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, making it the slowest day this year. Markets in the United States were closed on Good Friday last week. 
 The S.&P. 500 jumped 26 percent last year, its first annual gain since 1999, and is up 3 percent in 2004. Many investors will look for signs that corporate profit will grow in the second half of the year before betting the market's rally will endure, said David Briggs, head of global equity trading at Federated Investors Inc. in Pittsburgh. ''The key will be sustainability,'' he said.
 About 750 United States companies are scheduled to report earnings this week, including about 60 in the S.&P. 500. ''Earnings continue to impress in a quarter that was largely anticipated as good,'' said Arnim Holzer, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Asset Management, which manages $250 billion in New York. ''From a general point of view, you're going to have a good year'' in the stock market. 
 Profit for the S.&P. 500 members probably rose, on average, by 17.4 percent in the first quarter, according to an analyst poll by Thomson Financial. Analysts began the year with an average forecast of 13.4 percent for the period, Thomson said.
 Oil stocks climbed after the International Energy Agency raised its forecast for global demand for oil year for the sixth consecutive month. Oil futures expiring in May increased 70 cents to $37.84 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gasoline for May delivery soared 2.9 percent to $1.1803 a gallon on the Nymex, the highest closing price since the contract began trading in 1984.
 Shares for Exxon, the world's biggest publicly traded oil company, increased 66 cents to $43.11. ConocoPhillips, the largest refiner in the United States by capacity, rose $1.24 to $72.36, a record. Valero Energy, the No.3 American oil refiner, increased $2.45 to $60.25. Amerada Hess added $1.99 to $66.05.
 Oil services companies also gained. BJ Services climbed $1.20 to $43.79, Halliburton rose 65 cents to $30.50 and Baker Hughes added 97 cents to $36.80. The S.&P. 500's Energy Index rose 1.8 percent, the biggest gain among the benchmark's 10 industry groups.
 Class A shares of Comcast, the world's largest cable television operator, gained $1.10 to $30.34. The company is likely to abandon its unsolicited $54.1 billion bid to acquire Disney, Banc of America analyst Douglas Shapiro said. Disney's board will not accept the offer at its current value of $22.81 a share, and Comcast's ability to raise the bid is limited, Mr. Shapiro said. He raised his rating to buy from neutral. A Comcast spokesman, Tim Fitzpatrick, declined to comment.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
By Reuters
 Treasury prices fell yesterday, pushing yields to three-month highs as traders forecast that a raft of data due this week would show that the economic recovery remains on a solid footing. Highest on investors' list of concerns are retail sales and inflation figures, expected to show that healthy consumer spending is starting to enhance companies' ability to charge higher prices for their goods.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note dropped 10/32 to 98 4/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.23 percent from 4.19 percent on Thursday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.769	99.482	High Rate	0.915	1.025	Investment Rate	0.929	1.044	Low Rate	0.895	0.995	Median Rate	0.910	1.020	Total applied for	$46,467,078	$34,050,280	Accepted	$22,013,783	$17,874,030	Noncompetitive	$1,240,757	$755,890	

Both issues are dated April 15, 2004. The three-month bills mature on July 15, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 14, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from December through April.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); FUTURES (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average

COMPANY: BAKER HUGHES INC (86%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (75%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (68%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); HESS CORP (50%)

TICKER: BHI (SWX) (86%); BHI (NYSE) (86%); COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (75%); FII (NYSE) (68%); VLO (NYSE) (58%); HES (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (86%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (86%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (86%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



299 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MEDIA BUSINESS

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Fall At Times Co. But Increase At Gannett

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
The New York Times Company and the Gannett Company reported yesterday that the newspaper advertising climate was showing steady signs of growth so far this year. But while those improvements were enough to help propel a gain in earnings at Gannett in the first quarter, they were not enough to stave off a decline at the Times Company.
 The Times Company posted net income of $58.4 million, or 38 cents a share, down 15.1 percent from the first quarter of 2003, when it reported profit of $68.8 million, or 45 cents a share. Revenue at the Times Company rose 2.3 percent, to $801.9 million, from $783.7 million in the period a year earlier. 
 The Times Company said that the comparison in earnings was affected by three unusual items that produced a net benefit of $10.7 million after taxes in the first quarter of 2003. Those special items included the closing of a job fair business, the forfeiture of an advertising credit and reimbursement related to a printing plant. The Times also cited increased newsprint expenses and higher salary costs in the quarter this year. 
 Still, earnings per share in the latest quarter were 2 cents higher than analysts had been predicting. 
 In addition to The Times, the company owns 18 other newspapers -- including The Boston Globe and The International Herald Tribune -- and 8 network-affiliated television stations.
 Gannett -- which publishes USA Today, as well as 100 other daily newspapers in the United States, and operates 22 American television stations -- reported that net income rose 9.8 percent, to $274.4 million, or $1 a share, in the first quarter, from $249.8 million, or 93 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 Revenue jumped 11.4 percent, to $1.73 billion.
 Both companies had advertising gains in the first quarter, fueled by results in March in particular. The Times Company reported a 1.5 percent increase in advertising revenue at its newspaper group in the first quarter, to $477.3 million, in part as a result of gains in the transportation, financial services, banking and hotel industries, as well as in help-wanted advertising. In March, the company said, advertising in those categories accelerated, as the increase was about 7 percent over March 2003.
 Gannett, citing gains in similar advertising categories, said advertising revenue for its newspapers increased 14.9 percent in the first quarter -- to $1.16 billion from $1 billion.
 Douglas M. Arthur, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said that the results from both companies contained harbingers for more improvement throughout the year. 
 Mr. Arthur noted that the Times Company, for example, said that two advertising categories that were relatively weak in the first quarter -- entertainment and technology -- were likely to improve in the second quarter as the summer movie season arrives and computer companies start campaigns that had been delayed, at least in part, by the struggling economy.
 ''You could really sit back and say this thing is ready to explode, on the upside, for the first time in five years,'' Mr. Arthur said. 
 And yet, in a conference call with Mr. Arthur and other analysts, Times Company executives said they were not yet ready to predict increases for the year that exceeded what they had already forecast, including growth in advertising revenue companywide of only ''mid-single digits'' by the end of the year.
 ''We're cautious people these days, and we've had reason to be,'' said Russell T. Lewis, who has announced he will retire as the company's chief executive later this year. ''We're not going to declare victory prematurely.''
 While citing many reasons for optimism, Gannett executives, too, were restrained in looking toward the near future.
 ''We do not expect our growth to be delivered in a straight-line manner,'' Douglas H. McCorkindale, the chairman, president and chief executive of Gannett, said in a conference call with analysts. ''We are not yet seeing a full recovery.''
 The share price of each company fell yesterday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of the Times Company fell 34 cents, to $46.73, while shares in Gannett dropped $1.20, to $89.22. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); LODGING (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (53%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) Newspapers; Advertising and Marketing; Company Reports; Newspapers

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (96%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times; Gannett Co

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (96%); NYT (NYSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Jacques Steinberg; Russell T Lewis; Douglas H Mccorkindale

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



300 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: China Takes Another Step To Tighten Monetary Policy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 12 

 BODY:
China's central bank has tightened monetary policy for the second time in less than three weeks, trying to put the brakes on bank lending and property speculation as top Chinese officials voice concern that the economy may be overheating.
 ''Excessive growth in the supply of credit can initiate inflation or froth in property prices, which may eventually cause bad debts and increase financial risk,'' the central bank warned in a statement on Monday.
 The latest tightening takes the form of higher reserve requirements for banks. The action accompanied the release of figures late Sunday showing that China ran a trade deficit in March for the third month in a row.
 The deficit, though modest at $540 million, makes it more likely that China will continue resisting pressure from the United States, Europe and Japan to let its currency rise, even as Vice President Dick Cheney visits Beijing on Tuesday, economists said. The deficit may also make China more reluctant to compromise in Washington this month when it holds trade talks on semiconductors and other goods. 
 The official New China News Agency reported on Sunday that China's State Council, as the cabinet is called, called for strict curbs on new construction after a meeting on Friday led by Wen Jiabao, China's prime minister. Mr. Wen recently warned publicly that bringing the Chinese economy under control this year would be even harder than last year's fight against SARS.
 The State Council concluded that while rapid economic growth had yielded benefits for many Chinese, there were ''some serious problems during economic performance,'' including ''overgrowth of investment, too many new construction projects, blind or overlapped construction efforts,'' the news agency said. ''The overheating problems in some sectors have imposed pressure on coal, power, oil and transport supplies and resultingly brought about rises in prices for raw materials and other necessities, according to the meeting.''
 Investment spending has been rising at nearly three times the rate of overall economic growth lately, while consumer spending has lagged, raising fears that China may be erecting new factories and apartment buildings faster than they can be put to use.
 What remains unclear is how much China could control public dissatisfaction if growth slowed sharply. The last economic downturn in China was in the early 1990's, when many were still cowed by the Tiananmen Square killings in 1989. The severity of that downturn may have been limited partly because the preceding boom was less spectacular than the current one, which has been fueled by a surge in bank lending.
 Officials in Singapore are also worried about inflation. The Monetary Authority of Singapore, the central bank, changed its currency policy on Monday after estimating that the economy had grown 7.3 percent faster in the first quarter of this year than a year earlier, and had expanded by 11 percent from the fourth quarter of last year.
 Raising its inflation forecast for this year to a range of 1.5 percent to 2 percent, from a previous range of 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent, the Monetary Authority surprised investors by announcing that it would allow ''modest and gradual appreciation'' of the Singapore dollar against the American dollar. This step should in theory make Singapore's imports cheaper -- although hurting exports -- which may hold down the frequency of price increases.
 Independent economists said that the Chinese government's actions were late and probably inadequate to contain rampant speculation that is starting to feed inflation, including rising prices for some goods imported by the United States. They warned that China faced a growing risk that its recent economic boom could be followed by a costly bust.
 ''The hard-landing scenario likelihood is rising fast,'' said Andy Xie, a Morgan Stanley economist here. ''Something bad could happen in the next three to four quarters.''
 Wang Xiaolu, the deputy director of the National Economic Research Institute, an independent policy group in Beijing, said that Chinese government agencies were uncertain about the seriousness of overheating, and that the latest increase in bank reserve requirements would do little to slow the economy.
 ''It will reduce credit volume by a small amount -- not much compared to the overall volume,'' he said. ''The government is certainly concerned about overheating, and the central bank wants to adopt some contractionary measures, but the ones we've seen so far are fairly limited.''
 Liang Hong, a Goldman Sachs economist here, said that Chinese policy makers almost certainly made their latest decisions to tighten reserve requirements and discourage new investment based on economic statistics to be released to the public this Friday.
 These statistics include China's economic growth in the first quarter and the change in March of three figures: the consumer price index, domestic lending and the broad, M2 measure of money. ''They must have seen some scary numbers'' to be tightening monetary policy again before the last tightening has even taken full effect, Ms. Liang said.
 In an announcement on its Internet site on Sunday night, the central bank, the People's Bank of China, said that effective April 25, it was increasing the amount of money that most banks have to keep as reserves to 7.5 percent of their assets, up from 7 percent. Poorly capitalized banks will have to keep reserves equal to 8 percent of assets, up from 7.5 percent.
 In an explanatory statement on Monday, the bank said that the increases were necessary for sustainable economic growth.
 The People's Bank announced on March 24 that it would increase the reserve requirement for weak banks to 7.5 percent from 7 percent on April 25. It also said then that, effective immediately, it was increasing the interest rate that it charges banks for unsecured loans by two-thirds of a percentage point, and for collateralized loans by 0.27 of a percentage point.
 When the central bank raised reserve requirements to 7 percent from 6 percent last August, it gave banks a full month to adjust to the decision. The decision to push through an increase now in just two weeks suggests a sense of urgency among Chinese central bankers, Ms. Liang said.
 The increases in reserve requirements in August, last month and on Sunday have all exempted rural and agricultural banks, which still face a reserve requirement of 6 percent as part of a government policy of helping rural areas catch up economically with the cities.
 Central bank statistics show that total investment in agricultural production is stagnant. Still, commercial banks are telling the central bank that their loans in rural areas are soaring. Many of these loans may be diverted to other areas, especially property speculation on the edges of cities, where farms and villages are being cleared to make way for steel mills and residential complexes.
 Mr. Xie said that China's trade deficit was probably worse than the latest statistics suggest, because smugglers bring in large quantities of commodities, especially diesel, without declaring them to customs officials or paying the proper taxes.
 China's boom has driven up worldwide prices for commodities like oil and iron ore, which China imports in huge quantities, while global prices have barely changed for the manufactured goods that China produces.
 Chinese economists have been warning that brisk and sometimes reckless lending by state-owned banks has fed such rapid growth that global prices are being distorted to China's detriment. At the same time, the Chinese government could face a big liability if companies fail to repay their loans because of an economic downturn.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Some Chinese officials are worried about too much new construction, like this Beijing project where workers, seen through a safety fence, are assembling metal scaffolding for a commercial building. (Photo by Bloomberg News)
A booming economy, with spending for items like this 50-inch television set being delivered in Shanghai, is causing China's central bank to fear that the growth may be too rapid to be sustainable. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C9)Chart: ''Building Up''Overbuilding and the lending associated with it have the Chinese central bank worried that the economy may be overheating.Graph tracks gross change in fixed investment from 1997 through 2003.(Sources by CEIC Data Company
 National Bureau of Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MONETARY POLICY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Real Estate; International Trade and World Market; Currency; United States International Relations; Building (Construction); Interest Rates

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Keith Bradsher; Wen Jiabao

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) China; Europe; China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



301 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Fed Names New Chief

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said yesterday that a former policy maker, Janet Yellen, has been appointed president of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, succeeding Robert T. Parry, who is retiring after 18 years. 
 Ms. 
Yellen, 57, a former governor of the central bank, will take up her position on June 14. She is currently a professor of business and professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, and has specialized in studies of unemployment and international trade. 
 The San Francisco Fed is the largest of the 12 regional Fed banks in terms of population and economic output, accounting for about 20 percent of the country's economic activity. 
 Regional Fed presidents sit on the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee and rotate as voting members. San Francisco's president votes every third year, with the next year being 2006. 
 Mr. Parry, who will reach the Fed's mandatory retirement age of 65 in May, will not attend the next policy meeting on May 4. 
 He is the Fed's second-longest-serving policy maker, after Gary H. Stern, president of the Minneapolis Fed. 
 Ms. Yellen was a chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers from 1997 to 1999 under President Bill Clinton after being a member of the Fed's Board of Governors from 1994 to 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GOVERNORS (58%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (95%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (95%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (95%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%) Janet L Yellen; Robert T Parry

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



302 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Timing of Clinton Memoir Is Everything, for Kerry

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Jim Rutenberg reported from Washington for this article, and David D. Kirkpatrick from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12 

 BODY:
As Bill Clinton seeks to finish his memoirs, leading Democrats are voicing concern that the book could overshadow Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign, diverting attention to Mr. Clinton's outsize legacy of scandal and achievement.
 Many Democrats said they wanted the book published as far as possible before the election and, certainly, before the Democratic National Convention in late July. They fear that the book will embolden Mr. Clinton's foes to turn out and vote for President Bush.
 Mr. Clinton, for his part, has increased the nervous speculation about the book in Democratic circles by making a habit of picking up the phone to regale friends with long passages and even chapters of his prose. Mixing boyish enthusiasm with a craving for approval, people who have received the calls said, he has proudly narrated excerpts about everything from college antics with his pals at Georgetown to his 1995 standoff with Republicans that led to a government shutdown. 
 Some of Mr. Clinton's friends say he should hurry up.
 ''It'll get a lot of air space and I think it's kind of imperative that happen in front of the convention,'' said John D. Podesta, a chief of staff in Mr. Clinton's White House. That way, he said, ''Kerry's benefited by having a clear shot, clear air space, from the convention through November.''
 A close associate of Mr. Kerry, offering a personal opinion, said: ''If it comes out any time before the election, it's not particularly good for us because he takes up a lot of oxygen. It's less that he's a negative and more that he'll be out on his book tour and he'll be the story of the week rather than John Kerry.''
 Mr. Clinton, who has been working on the book for two years, has promised the Democratic Party's chairman, Terry McAuliffe, that it will be released well before the convention's opening day, July 26, party officials said. Officials said they believed that the book and a nationwide tour could even serve as a boost for Democrats across the nation, as long as it happened before July 26.
 Mr. Clinton's painstaking pace is also increasingly frustrating his publisher, which gave him a record advance of more than $10 million and had originally planned to release the book last year.
 Executives at Mr. Clinton's publisher, the Knopf division of Random House, have discussed releasing the book before June 15, but now that looks like a long shot, executives at the company said. Publishers say it takes at least six weeks to produce and distribute a serious book of this length. Knopf is preparing to do just that, people involved said, but publishing before June 15 means that Mr. Clinton needs to finish writing by the end of this month.
 Publishers are typically loath to release major works of newsworthy nonfiction either during the slow summer months of July and August, when the television audience greatly declines and many people are on vacation, or during the close of the presidential campaign, when the election will dominate the headlines.
 But Mr. Clinton is still hard at work, writing longhand at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. People involved with the book said that to expedite the process, Mr. Clinton was turning in parts of the work to his editor, Robert Gottlieb, but it is still unclear when he will be done. Some friends contended that he could still pull it together in time for a June publication, arguing that Mr. Clinton is at his best under pressure. But others noted that he was an inveterate procrastinator who was late for everything and often missed deadlines, a fiddler who revised even routine policy speeches until he was about to deliver them.
 ''I wouldn't bet on it coming out during the campaign,'' said Dick Morris, who worked as Mr. Clinton's chief campaign strategist. ''He takes a long time to finish things and he's never happy, and he fills up the wastebasket.''
 ''What I really believe is if he were to come out with it during the campaign it would be intended as a way of undercutting Kerry,'' he added. ''It would turn the whole election into a debate about Clinton rather than Kerry.''
 A half-dozen people who have heard or read passages of Mr. Clinton's draft said that he had taken a very comprehensive approach to his life, with abundant details of his humble roots in Arkansas, when he famously defended his mother from his alcoholic stepfather. At other points he recalls casual conversations at a gas station and at a barbecue restaurant that helped him decide to run again for governor of Arkansas after getting voted out of office. (People at both places told him voters would accept that he had done penance for the sins of his first administration.) Several of his listeners said he usually read to them passages about his life before the White House, and many declined to disclose specific details. But several people who have discussed the book with him say they believe it could end up at as many as 800 pages.
 Robert Barnett, the lawyer who represented both Mr. Clinton and his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, in their book deals, said only: ''The president is aiming to publish in mid-2004. We will announce all the details when the time is right, and in the meantime we hope people will build up anticipation.''
 Paul Bogaards, Knopf spokesman, acknowledged that Mr. Clinton was still writing but predicted his book would succeed in any season. ''This book is going to create store traffic whenever it is published,'' he said. ''Our aim has always been to accelerate publication upon delivery.''
 Its political impact is another story. People who have heard passages are quiet when it comes to the most sensational anticipated subject in the book, his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky, though one associate confirmed that he did address it. In Mrs. Clinton's book ''Living History,'' she suggests that her husband's motives are for him to tell.
 Yet Ms. Lewinsky is just one of a number of characters from the Clinton days whom gossipmongers in Washington are eager to read about from Mr. Clinton's perspective. There is George Stephanopoulos, the onetime confidant who dissected his former boss in a book of his own. (He had no comment.) Mr. Morris, who has made a career out of criticizing his former boss, might come in for some criticism himself. (He said he did not expect to.) And who could leave out Mr. Clinton's onetime adversary Newt Gingrich? (He declined to comment.)
 But Leon E. Panetta, who was also a chief of staff for Mr. Clinton, said the former president had read him passages about the 1995 budget standoff with the Republicans, then led by Mr. Gingrich, to double-check facts. ''I really think he does it pretty fairly,'' he said. ''Probably more fairly than I would have.'' 
 Mr. Gingrich receives a respectful treatment, one person acquainted with some of the book's contents said. Another person close to Mr. Clinton said he took a sympathetic approach to his successor's handling of terrorism and Iraq.
 Douglas Sosnik, Mr. Clinton's political director in 1996 who has read parts of the book, said: ''This guy would be better off if he did settle a few scores. He's too easy on people.''
 Some people who have talked to Mr. Clinton suggest he may be more candid than cynics expect, noting his considerable admiration for his mother's memoir, ''Leading With My Heart.'' In her book, his mother, Virginia Kelley, told an unvarnished story of her own sometimes tawdry life, including her fondness for gambling, drinking and fast times, and she disparaged her daughter-in-law as a styleless feminist. Her ghostwriter, James Morgan, has said that when Mr. Clinton reviewed the manuscript he did not seek to redact a word, pronouncing it just like his mother, and Mr. Clinton has told friends he seeks to emulate it.
 That is unlikely to calm Democrats who worry that Mr. Clinton might turn off voters squeamish about moral issues. The New York Observer recently likened his anticipated book tour to ''Elvis Presley's 1968 NBC comeback special.''
 But some party leaders and Kerry campaign officials argue that publication in the spring could, in the words of one, help in ''pumping up the base.'' If Mr. Clinton gets it out in time, party officials said, they hoped to hold fund-raising events at stops on his book tour.
 ''The notion that once upon a time there was a president who actually thought about how you strengthen the middle class and did a good job steering the economy is not a bad thing,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''It's a good thing.''
 Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who is close to Mr. Clinton, said his fellow Democrats should relax.
 ''We should stop being so morose about Clinton,'' he said. ''He's a plus.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bill Clinton flanked by Newt Gingrich, left, and Bob Dole at a meeting in 1995 on the budget standoff. Mr. Gingrich is said to receive respectful treatment in the book Mr. Clinton is seeking to complete. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Books and Literature; United States Politics and Government; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%) Jim Rutenberg; David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton; John (Sen) Kerry; Terry Mcauliffe

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



303 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Clerics Meet in Iraq City To Try to End Standoff
A powerful delegation of Shiite clerics met with Moktada al-Sadr in Najaf, beginning negotiations that appeared to offer the best hope yet of resolving the standoff between the American military and Mr. Sadr, whose followers began a rebellion last week. A1

Attacks on vital supply lines in and out of Baghdad are posing new hazards to civilian contractors and siphoning short-handed combat forces away from the main fight against militants to fight the attacking insurgents, senior commanders said. A1

Members of the Iraqi Governing Council say they were never consulted over the large-scale American military moves last week and would have opposed confronting Sunni insurgents in Falluja and Ramadi, exposing deep fissures between the council and the occupation authorities. A15

What Pakistani Scientist Knew
Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani scientist who sold nuclear technology around the world, has told his interrogators that during a trip to North Korea five years ago he was shown what he described as three nuclear devices, Asian and American officials said. A12

Bush Stance on Israel Plan
President Bush said, after meeting with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, that he would welcome a withdrawal of Israeli forces and settlers from Gaza but warned that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan for pullback should not replace the White House's proposal for negotiations that would lead to the creation of a Palestinian state. A10

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, who will meet with Mr. Bush at the White House on Wednesday, listed five major settlement blocs in the West Bank that he promised to retain as part of his withdrawal plan. A10

NATIONAL A16-22

Bush Sees Chance to Redo Intelligence Services
President Bush said that ''now may be a time to revamp and reform our intelligence services,'' opening the way for consideration of changes at the C.I.A., F.B.I. and other agencies of his administration. A1

Panel Drafts Cite Ashcroft
Draft reports by the independent commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks portray Attorney General John Ashcroft as largely uninterested in counterterrorism issues before Sept. 11 despite intelligence warnings about threats from Al Qaeda. A20

After nearly three years of a self-imposed exile, Louis J. Freeh, the former director of the F.B.I., returns to the public spotlight with his reputation under siege because of criticism of the bureau's performance before the Sept. 11 attacks. A20

Clinton Book Worries Party
As Bill Clinton seeks to finish his memoirs, leading Democrats are voicing concern that the book could overshadow Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign. A1

Doctors Face Medicare Fine
The Bush administration is warning doctors that they can be fined or expelled from the Medicare program if they charge patients extra for providing a deluxe version of services already covered by Medicare. A18

Scalia Apologizes to Reporters
Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court has apologized to two reporters who were required to erase recordings of a speech he gave at a high school in Mississippi. A16

Minority Admissions Down a Bit
Two of the major universities that were forced by the Supreme Court to abandon affirmative action policies have experienced only slight declines in the racial diversity of the students they admitted for the fall. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Mayor Seeks to Bring 911 Into 21st Century
Mayor Bloomberg has ordered a major overhaul of 911 in hope of making it faster, smarter and safer. New Yorkers have been paying telephone surcharges to improve 911 since 1992, but studies have concluded that the city has little to show for the money devoted to the system. A1

The Medallion Stakes
Hundreds of New York cabdrivers are preparing for a rare city auction of taxi medallions, expected to fetch $250,000 apiece. For the drivers the struggle is a snapshot of the American dream. A1

9/11 Dispute Settled
New York will not be held liable for up to $350 million in medical claims arising from the cleanup of the World Trade Center site after city and federal officials resolved a dispute over the matter. B3

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5-8

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES C15

FASHION B7

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

Mets Win Home Opener
The Mets beat the Atlanta Braves 10-6, despite injuries that kept starters Cliff Floyd and Mike Piazza out of the lineup. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

China Tightens Policy
China's central bank tightened monetary policy for the second time in less than three weeks, trying to put the brakes on bank lending as top Chinese officials voice concern that the economy may be overheating. C1

Interpublic Paid Big Bonuses
The Interpublic Group of Companies in New York paid more than $41.4 million in bonuses for 2003 to an unspecified number of executives at its agencies, according to a copy of an internal e-mail message. C1

Computer Associates Is Strong
Wall Street analysts expect Computer Associates to remain competitive even if the company's chairman and chief executive is forced out. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Corporate tax holidays; Gaza first, but not last; Justice Scalia's apology; lost dreams in the Poconos.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MEDICARE (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); AL-QAEDA (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (93%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



304 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Tax Holidays

 BODY:
Here's unwelcome news for individuals scrambling this week to file their taxes: Almost two-thirds of America's corporations paid no federal income taxes during the late 1990's, when corporate profits were soaring. Nine out of 10 companies paid less than the equivalent of 5 percent of their total income. After allowable deductions, companies ostensibly face a 35 percent rate. Meanwhile, as David Cay Johnston reported in yesterday's Times, the government is doing less to enforce the law. Over the last decade, the audit rate for the largest corporations has fallen by almost half. 
 Corporate tax avoiders are a major problem that needs immediate action. They are both a straightforward fiscal problem -- with federal coffers being denied needed money at a time of spiralling deficits -- and a broader threat to our civic culture. It's never healthy to have tax rates become merely academic. Just look at the recent history of Latin America's crippled economies.
 Corporate taxes now account for about 7.5 percent of overall federal tax receipts, down from a high of 40 percent during World War II.
 What corporate America's proper share ought to be is not obvious, but it's a political issue that calls for an open debate. Instead, what's happening is highly corrosive to any democracy. Corporate tax rates have been scaled back by subterfuge and an ever-expanding web of shelters and loopholes. In 2000, American companies paid an average of only $14.75 in taxes for every $1,000 in gross revenue, according to a recent study by the General Accounting Office. 
 Sophisticated tax dodging -- much of it falling in that gray region separating the flagrantly illegal from the merely inappropriate -- helps render actual rates meaningless. Despite one of the highest ostensible corporate tax rates in the industrialized world, American companies are in fact among the least taxed. This oddity undermines the integrity of the system and makes a mockery of those who actually try to pay their fair share.
 It would be far healthier to reduce corporate tax rates modestly while simplifying the system to ensure compliance, as John Kerry is proposing. His plan, which seeks to make it more difficult for companies to defer paying taxes on their overseas profits, remains a bit muddled by his desire to package it as an anti-outsourcing measure. But at least the senator is raising the subject. 
 Despite much talk in Washington about the need for meaningful corporate tax reform, it's not an issue that the Bush administration has ever been prepared to address in a serious manner. This cannot go on indefinitely. The credibility of the tax code is in dire need of some shoring up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); AUDITS (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); OUTSOURCING (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Taxation; Editorials; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Tax Evasion

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



305 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 7; PLACES

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: A Home Away From Home Keeps Old Scholars Happy

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
IN the 10 years since the federal law eliminating mandatory retirement took effect, universities have faced a conundrum: namely, how to encourage senior professors to step aside to make room for younger instructors.
 At institutions like Yale University, where senior faculty enjoy status and economic success unmatched by most of their academic peers, it can be particularly difficult to make emeriti out of perfectly happy, if graying, instructors. So Yale has begun to approach this delicate issue from a new perspective, encouraging professors to retire, but stick around.
 Last year, the university opened the Henry Koerner Center for Emeritus Faculty, which serves as a base for Yale's 300 retired professors and administrators -- 100 of whom still live in or around New Haven. 
 According to Dr. Bernard Lytton, an emeritus professor of surgery at Yale and director of the center, ''The purpose of this place is to bring emeriti back into the mainstream life of the university.''
 Added Charles Long, the deputy provost at Yale: ''What we've had to do is make retirement as inviting as possible. For us, that's one of the needs the Koerner Center has filled.''
 The center's participants, who range in age from 65 to 85, are just beginning to hatch ideas about how best to stay involved with the campus, but the early programs signal an effort consistent with the two academic mainstays of intellectual and social events, both with and without students.
 Retired professors, who sometimes maintain a part-time teaching schedule at Yale, can apply to use one of the center's 12 offices for two years. There, they may write, meet with students or, if the class enrollment is small enough, conduct classes. 
 The center also assists emeriti in arranging part-time teaching assignments and spots as guest lecturers at the university. Support for continuation of scholarly writing and research is available, as well as computer assistance.
 Dr. Lytton is also overseeing a small but growing roster of emeritus-only events, including a lecture series called Intellectual Trajectories, in which retired professors discuss their scholarship paths. 
 The building itself is a nod to Yale's past. The three-story structure is the oldest house in New Haven, built in 1767 by a grandson of the Rev. James Pierpont, a founder of Yale. It was a private residence until deeded to the university in 1920; since then the site has served as the Yale Faculty Club, the university's undergraduate admissions office and a visitor's center. It sits on the edge of the New Haven Green, a short walk from the main undergraduate campus.
 In 1999, Joseph Koerner, a 1980 Yale graduate, and Lisbet Rausing gave Yale $10 million to establish a program that would give emeriti a base from which to ensure their involvement in campus life. (Professor Koerner, an art history professor at Harvard University and the son of the artist Henry Koerner, declined interview requests, as did Ms. Rausing.)
 The gift from Professor Koerner and Ms. Rausing resulted in a major renovation of the Pierpont house, which now features restored offices and an expansive living room that serves as a central meeting place and a library.
 It is here that every afternoon sherry is served, because, as David Apter, an emeritus professor of sociology and political science at Yale, put it, ''Intellectual life depends on some degree of liquid refreshment.''
 Of course, it also depends on a degree of serious scholarship. On an afternoon in early March, Jerome Pollitt, emeritus professor of classical archaeology and art history, sat in his third-floor office, where he reviewed notes for a series of lectures he was commissioned to give on a cruise ship in Italy next month. Professor Pollitt, who retired from Yale in 1999 -- 37 years after arriving -- said the center had helped pull him back onto campus more frequently than in the years immediately after retirement.
 ''Whenever you come back as an emeritus, you get the feeling you're hanging over the young people's shoulders,'' Professor Pollitt said. ''I'd resolved I wouldn't hang around here like a ghost after retirement.''
 So Professor Pollitt, who lives nearby in Woodbridge, Conn., drove into New Haven primarily to use Yale's library for research and to take in occasional lectures and exhibitions.. ''This is nice to have,'' he said of the center, ''because it gives you a place to connect with the university, as opposed to the department you worked in.''
 Dr. Lytton said few, if any, universities can boast similar programs. The University of Southern California, Emory University and Columbia University have programs for emeritus professors, but, said Dr. Lytton, ''none of them have a facility like ours, or the resources we have.''
 The Koerner Center adds to an already substantial list of benefits for Yale's emeritus professors, including health insurance, free lunches and annual salaries averaging $80,000, which can be modestly augmented with a part-time teaching schedule. According to Patricia Dallai, the Koerner's executive director, it is still too early to tell how many potential retirees the center will attract.
 ''Retirements that are happening now probably were decided at least a couple of years ago,'' Ms. Dallai said. ''But my goal is that we'll be seen as that connection to the university in the future.''
 That connection is a welcome attraction for many emeriti. According to Professor Apter: ''In the past when you retired, from the university's point of view, you were dead. You'd get a party, and off you went.''
 As Professor Apter sat in his office at the center overlooking a courtyard recounting a career in which he witnessed political upheavals in several nations -- experiences perhaps rivaled in other offices in the building -- it became evident that the Koerner Center has collected perhaps an extraordinary combination of smarts and wisdom.
 Professor Apter thinks that the current generation of retired professors, in particular, possesses qualities that other generations lack, because many of his colleagues came to academia after surviving the Depression and World War II. His was also the generation of faculty members that brought greater ethnic diversity to a teaching staff that, Professor Apter said, had been ''classically Ivy League.'' The fact that so many of his colleagues took part in what he characterized as ''the enormous transition of the university'' perhaps makes it more likely that they will gravitate toward each other in a place like the Koerner Center.
 ''The center will anchor the senior faculty in the university,'' he said. ''That's very different than the way it was before.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: BACK ON CAMPUS -- From left, retired professors Jerome Pollitt, Joseph LaPalombara, Bernard Lytton and David Apter at the Koerner Center at Yale. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HISTORY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Retirement; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) Yale University 

PERSON: Bernard (Dr) Lytton; Bob Tedeschi; Charles Long

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



306 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 1; LOOKING AHEAD

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: On Their Own, in the Same Boat

BYLINE: By MARY DUENWALD and BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
SILOY ABDOOL of the Bronx started putting money aside for retirement when she was in her mid-30's. Two years ago, she left her teaching job after she had a baby and could not find good, affordable child care. Now she is 43, separated from her husband and her nest egg has been used up. 
 ''If I go back, I'm going to have to double up,'' Ms. Abdool said, referring to the pace of her savings. ''I don't know how I'm going to do it.''
 Kiki Peppard, a divorced mother of two in Effort, Pa., has been working since she was 16 years old at a series of jobs -- administrative assistant, secretary, bookkeeper, office manager. Now she is 49 and, as a telephone operator at East Stroudsburg University in Pennsylvania, she takes home $650 every two weeks. Saving for retirement is ''not even an option,'' she said. ''I can only think of the day-to-day.'' 
 Kathy Braddock, 47, is co-owner of a successful residential real estate consulting business in Manhattan, but she has negligible savings for retirement -- her nest egg disappeared in her divorce. Creating her own pension, she said, was something she just did not think about. ''If you'd asked me 30 years ago if I ever thought I'd be in the financial situation I'm in, I would have said no,'' Ms. Braddock said.
 ''At this point, I can never catch up, so I figure I'll have to die young or keep working,'' she said, laughing. ''Or I hope my kids strike it rich and help me.''
 For years, economists have debated whether baby boomers would have saved enough when they reached retirement age. Now that day is close at hand. And for one slice of that generation -- single women -- the answer is becoming depressingly clear. 
 Two private groups that study retirement issues, the Employee Benefit Research Institute and the Milbank Memorial Fund, recently collaborated on a study that analyzed income and asset data to calculate how much more members of different households would need to save, on top of what they were currently saving, to provide for basic living expenses in retirement, including health costs not covered by Medicare. They found that, at all ages and income levels, single women faced a steeper climb than couples or single men. 
 The difference is bigger for women in the lower middle class. And for women at the lowest income levels, the findings are particularly bleak: Economists predicted that this group would never be able to save enough, no matter how early they started or how much they tried -- even if they increased their savings by 25 percent of their income. 
 The problem is not an isolated one. About 13.4 million women -- more than a third of the women born during the baby boom years, from 1946 to 1964 -- are likely to be single when they retire over the next few decades, according to Jack L. VanDerhei, an economics professor at the Fox School of Business and Management at Temple University in Philadelphia. He was a co-author of the study for the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington.
 The disadvantage in savings arises from a tangle of social and economic forces, said Sheryl Burt Ruzek, a professor of public health and women's studies at Temple.
 ''Women's lifetime earnings look very different from men's,'' Professor Ruzek said. More women work at low-wage or part-time jobs, and for the smallest businesses that have the poorest benefits. They often drop in and out of the labor force, leaving when they are young to care for children, and again when they are older to care for a sick or dying parent or spouse.
 ''They are also more likely than men to work too few hours to qualify for a pension,'' she said, ''and are less likely to roll over their lump-sum payments when they leave a job.''
 According to a report released last year by the Federal Reserve Board, the median net worth of households headed by single women in 2001 was $27,850, compared with $140,000 for married couples and $46,990 for single men.
 Only 35 percent of single women had 401(k)'s, I.R.A.'s or other retirement accounts, compared with 63 percent of married couples and 42 percent of single men, the report said. Only 8 percent of unmarried women have traditional pensions, according to the survey that was the basis of that report.
 Economists temper their dire predictions by pointing out that studies like the recent income analysis are looking at the odds of retiring comfortably -- defined as a 75 percent chance of covering basic retirement expenses -- and not survival. 
 ''I don't see a doomsday scenario where a huge share of baby boomers are going to enter retirement destitute,'' said Karen E. Smith, a senior research associate at the Urban Institute in Washington. 
 The fact that more women in this generation worked than in their mothers' time means that more of them have their own Social Security payments and other assets, helping them avoid poverty, Ms. Smith said. But the rise in divorce and households headed by single mothers has kept those assets meager.
 That will leave many single women facing hard choices, usually about continuing to work far longer than they had hoped, or about leaving their community in search of a lower cost of living.
 Patricia Case, 57, of San Diego, works at a company that recruits nurses for travel assignments. She has about $200,000 in her retirement account, but figures that is not nearly enough. ''I'm looking at working until I'm 70, so I can maximize Social Security,'' she said, or selling her home to move to a state where the cost of living is lower.
 When Ms. Case looks back, she sees missed opportunities and unexpected changes. When she was younger, the thought of putting money away never crossed her mind, she said. ''I couldn't be bothered saving $50 a month.''
 And Ms. Case has been married and divorced twice. ''I had thought I was going to be married forever, especially when I married the second time,'' she said. ''I thought someone was going to take care of me. Now I know nobody's going to take care of me but me.''
 Julie Mermelstein has very little in retirement savings because she has never stayed at a job longer than two years and has always worked for nonprofit corporations, which typically pay less.
 Ms. Mermelstein, who is 41 and lives in Los Angeles, has been a marriage and family counselor, but is now teaching drug prevention to middle and high school students. By doing extra work on the side, she earns a little more than $40,000 a year.
 Ms. Mermelstein's contributions to retirement savings are so minimal, she doubts ''that there's going to be enough money,'' she said. ''I took a really big pay cut to take this job. It's not that I don't choose my positions wisely, but I choose from the heart rather than from a practical point of view.''
 At 60, Mary Paden is just ahead of the baby boom generation, and has already seen those worries turn into reality. 
 Ms. Paden, who retired five years ago after suffering a stroke, lives in the Bronx on a $900-a-month pension, which just covers her $877 rent, and $1,100 from Social Security.
 Divorced decades ago, she said that the money she had invested in a mutual fund while she was working is gone. Ms. Paden earns a little extra money by caring for an elderly man when his attendant has the day off and by occasionally reselling jewelry she finds at auctions. 
 Ms Paden spoke while having lunch at a neighborhood fast-food restaurant on a day in which she described herself as broke: she had used up her monthly pension check, and would be scrambling until her Social Security check arrived.
 But Ms. Paden considers herself to be making it -- her worries are mostly about what will happen when she gets older and cannot take on the extra jobs. ''It will probably be worse, because I won't be able to do the little things I do,'' she said.
 To Dan Fox, president of the Milbank Memorial Fund in New York, the approaching shortfall in retirement savings means that the elderly are going to be faced with a lot of unpleasant choices. He thinks that older people will have to accept decreased mobility, move to lower-cost, inferior types of housing, like S.R.O. hotels, forgo prescription drugs, and eat less or more poorly. The states, already strapped, will be called upon to do more and more, and will have trouble keeping up.
 Some economists say that changes in tax and other policies could ease the problem. Heidi Hartmann, director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research in Washington, suggests that a caretaking credit could be given in the computation of Social Security benefits for women who did not work when they were raising children, partially compensating them for earnings they did not have.
 ''There could also be government matching programs for low-income savers,'' she said, ''and an increase in benefits to people over age 75 or 80,'' most of whom would be women living alone.
 If savings tax credits were improved and expanded, that also might help, said Cindy Hounsell, executive director of the Women's Institute for a Secure Retirement in Washington.
 ''The thing for people to do is to live way below their means while they are still working and save,'' she said -- something that she acknowledged seems quite impossible for those who are only scraping by. 
 As a result, ''everything is probably going to have to change policy-wise,'' she said, if the worst is to be avoided.
 Mr. Fox agrees, suggesting that ''long-term care and health care be taken out of the realm of personal responsibility.'' 
 Single women, of course, have long been accustomed to finding solutions on their own. Barbara Lloyd, 53, raised three children by herself, and earned a master's degree in education while working as a public school prekindergarten teacher in New York City. She will receive a pension from the city's Department of Education and has been contributing 14 percent of her salary to a tax-deferred annuity. Still, she worries that it will not be enough.
 ''It's a great concern of mine,'' she said. ''I worry because I help my grandchildren with my money, so I can't save on my own.''
 Margaret Clark-Mayfield has already put a coping plan into effect. 
 She is 51, but has only a ''very small'' retirement savings account, she said. She began her working life by spending 10 years taking care of her four daughters, and even after divorce put her in the work force, she did not spend many years at one job.
 Several years ago, she took stock of her situation and decided to cut her living expenses to the minimum. That's why she moved to Medford, Ore., where she now works a series of temporary jobs: she is an independent distributor for a nutritional supplement company; and she runs a small computer-services business doing typesetting, bookkeeping and desktop publishing.
 ''Life throws you curve balls,'' she said. ''I have no debt, but I also do not have a lot of savings. But I'm aware that even if I am living on a shoestring, it's very important to put away all that I can.''
 For Ms. Braddock, the Manhattan real estate consultant, the solution also may mean finding an inexpensive place to retire with friends, she said. Or she might do well enough in her present career -- which she expects to last well beyond the day she turns 65 -- to make retirement work.
 ''My plan for retirement is to keep working and to become as successful as possible now,'' Ms. Braddock said. ''I know it's going to work out, but it's not going to be in the conventional way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THEY WILL SURVIVE -- From left, Siloy Abdool, Kathy Braddock, Barbara Lloyd and Mary Paden. ''My plan for retirement is to keep working,'' Ms. Braddock said. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 HARD NUMBERS -- Kiki Peppard pays her bills as her children, Jim and Carissa, talk in her kitchen. (Photo by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times)(pg. G13)Chart: ''A Bigger Task for Single Women''A recent report used current assets and projected earnings to calculate whether households were saving enough for retirement. The analysis found that single women faced the largest savings shortfall. This graph shows the percentage of income they would need to set aside -- on top of current savings -- for a 75 percent chance of meeting basic retirement expenses.Note: Figures were limited to 25% of income with the assumption that few family units would be able to save more than this.Graph shows women single at retirement, men single at retirement, and married couple's income for:BORN1961-19651956-19601951-19551946-19501941-19451936-1940(Source by Employee Benefit Research Institute)(pg. G13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); WOMEN (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CHILD CARE (72%); MEDICARE (69%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Women; Men; Research

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (84%) Employee Benefit Research Institute; Milbank Memorial Fund

PERSON: Mary Duenwald; Bernard Stamler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



307 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Retirement; Pg. 1; CAMPAIGN TRAIL

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Tough Issues, Awaiting Their Turn

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THOUGH they have surfaced only fleetingly in the opening rounds of the presidential campaign, some of the deepest and most explosive divisions between George W. Bush and John F. Kerry are over the future of retirement.
 The issues are so politically treacherous and abstract that both candidates have shied away from them in public -- an easy thing to do when the headlines have been dominated by Iraq, the 9/11 commission and jobs.
 But make no mistake: a philosophical and intensely partisan war is raging just below the surface, and strategists on both sides expect that retirement issues will come into play before the campaign comes to a close. The fissures between Republicans and Democrats are deep. Trillions of dollars are potentially at stake, and powerful interest groups are already marshaling forces. 
 The issues range from Social Security and Medicare to the stability of private pension plans, but much of the war boils down to a basic question: should Americans save for old age collectively as a nation, or as individuals through private savings and investments?
 This rift has, if anything, deepened in the last four years, even as the political ground has shifted.
 Democrats hope to tie the traditional distrust many older Americans have for proposals that seem to threaten Social Security or Medicare to broader economic anxieties of younger workers about job losses, shaky pension plans, shrunken private savings, the federal deficit and cutbacks in retiree health plans.
 Republicans, who usually accuse their opponents of exaggerating threats to the programs, are resorting to fear as well. They are warning that the two giant entitlement programs will be overwhelmed by soaring costs as the nation's 76 million baby boomers begin to reach retirement age in 2011.
 President Bush has also worked hard to blunt the Democrats' longstanding advantage on retirement issues by winning approval for a prescription drug plan for the elderly -- a huge new government entitlement program.
 The gambit may not pay off. Polls show that voters are lukewarm at best toward the new law. Democrats have attacked it as a feeble measure with lucrative giveaways to pharmaceutical companies and health maintenance organizations.
 Meanwhile, the Bush administration is facing an inquiry into accusations that it suppressed its own cost estimates, which showed that the new law would cost a third more than Congress had been assuming.
 And both parties are girding for much bigger battles soon after the next election. Warning that Social Security is headed straight toward bankruptcy, Mr. Bush and supporters are building a case for partially replacing the old-age program with a new system of private accounts.
 Trustees for the Social Security and Medicare trust funds project that the Social Security fund for old-age benefits will be out of money by 2042 and that the Medicare trust fund will be insolvent by 2019 -- just 15 years from now.
 ''The danger is not in doing something -- the danger is in avoiding the obvious,'' said Terry Holt, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney election campaign. ''You cannot just cling to the status quo, and people understand that.''
 Democrats are sounding their own alarms, accusing Republicans of trying to shred the social safety net and impoverish the elderly. 
 ''The Republican approach is that you have individual responsibility for maintaining your retirement, and if you are unsuccessful then you should have done better,'' said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California. 
 Though President Bush has refrained from any specific proposals on Social Security, advocacy groups are already mobilizing.
 SocialSecurityChoice.org, a conservative group that is pushing for private savings accounts, plans to spend up to $2 million in May on television commercials that will run in Washington, D.C., and in several swing states. ''This is not an issue that the Democratic leadership can demagogue on anymore,'' said Bob Costello, the group's president. ''We are at the tipping point on this issue.'' 
 Liberal advocacy groups are firing back. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group in Washington, has published a stream of reports contending that projected shortfalls for Social Security have been greatly exaggerated and can be fixed by modest adjustments to future benefits or taxes.
 And MoveOn.org has spent $3.5 million on media ads attacking the prescription drug law, and is prepared to pounce on other retirement issues. ''We know we'll do more,'' said Wes Boyle, the president of the MoveOn.org Voter Fund. ''There's this sense that, just as all these people are moving toward retirement, everything is up in the air.''
 Strategists in both parties face a starkly different landscape than they did in 2000, when George W. Bush campaigned for letting people channel some of their Social Security taxes into private savings accounts they could manage themselves.
 Back then, unemployment was still at rock-bottom lows and the stock market was still near record highs. This year, many voters are anxious about unemployment, disillusioned by the collapse of the stock market and nervous about their private pension plans.
 Even those who kept their jobs in the last three years saw the value of their individual retirement accounts shrink. And the bursting of the stock market bubble left pension funds at many Fortune 500 companies, the gold standard for retirement security, seriously underfinanced.
 Standard & Poor's recently estimated that, even after a rebound in the stock market last year, pension plans of the 500 largest corporations are about $259 billion short of what they need.
 Indeed, after months of lobbying by business leaders, Congress last Thursday wrapped up a package that will relieve businesses from federal requirements that would have forced them to shore up their pension funds with an additional $80 billion in contributions.
 The White House has concentrated its most dire warnings, however, on Social Security. ''The nation must act to avert a long-foreseen future crisis in the financing of its old-age retirement programs,'' warned the White House Council of Economic Advisers, in its 2004 Economic Report to the President.
 The solution, the report continued, is to trim the future growth in Social Security benefits and then partially privatize the program by letting people divert some of their payroll contributions to private accounts.
 Administration officials admit that as much as $1 trillion in ''transition costs'' could be needed for the switch, but argue that the new system would save money in the long run.
 White House officials now avoid the word ''privatization,'' fearing that the word conjures up fears that Democrats can exploit. But Mr. Bush clearly remains enthusiastic about the idea and is expected to make it a priority if he is re-elected.
 Many opponents, however, say the administration has deliberately blurred a major difference between the prospects for Social Security and Medicare. 
 Most experts agree that Medicare faces an acute financial crisis, partly because the nation's baby boomers will begin to retire en masse in 2011 and even more because medical costs have been rising much more rapidly than the overall rate of inflation.
 But most analysts also agree that the problems of Social Security, which provides old-age benefits, could be addressed with fairly modest fine-tuning to future benefits or to payroll taxes. 
 Peter R. Orszag, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former official in the Clinton administration, said the projected shortfall of Social Security -- $3.5 trillion over the next 75 years -- is barely one third the cost of making Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent.
 Blurring the distinction makes it easier to justify an overhaul for Social Security. It also glosses over an awkward fact for Republicans: the acute deficits looming for Medicare became far worse as a result of the prescription drug bill that President Bush supported and signed.
 Mr. Kerry, in line with most Democratic lawmakers, has repeatedly vowed to oppose any privatization of Social Security. ''Social Security is safe and sound well into the next two decades or more,'' he said in January. ''With very minor changes, with a strong economy, the next generation will have Social Security.''
 But Democrats face their own dilemmas. Even modest changes to cost-of-living increases provoke howls of protest from unions and other major Democratic constituencies. Nor have Democrats come to grips with the undisputed problems that loom for Medicare.
 And neither party talks much about the effects of the longstanding trend in which employers have shifted a large share of retirement responsibilities from themselves to their workers.
 Today, nearly 60 percent of workers covered by an employer pension plan rely entirely on 401(k) accounts or similar savings plans for individuals. But experts warn that most Americans set aside far less money in their 401(k) plans than they will need for retirement.
 The retirement savings plans of a typical American household have only about $55,000, according to Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''We are watching the demise of defined-benefit plans and the growth of plans that place all the burden on the workers, but the workers are often ill-prepared to make these sophisticated choices,'' Ms. Munnell said. 
 But whatever the debate among economists on these issues, by November the campaigns will have to find ways of boiling their arguments down to 30-second commercials. Judging by two ads already prepared, voters can expect plenty of anxiety-making appeals.
 In one television commercial broadcast in battleground states by MoveOn.org in January, retired couples discussing Medicare are upended when a shadowy figure in cowboy boots marked ''GWB'' literally pulls the rug out from under them.
 The ad prepared by SocialSecurity Choice.org is even starker. It opens with a shot of an hourglass emptying. ''Time,'' the announcer intones, ''is running out.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Retirement section yesterday about the role of retirement issues in the presidential election campaign misstated the surname of the president of the MoveOn.org Voter Fund. He is Wes Boyd, not Boyle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PROXY BATTLE -- Advocacy organizations, like MoveOn.org and SocialSecurity Choice.org, are taking the lead on political advertising related to retirement issues. (pg. G11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (87%); LEGISLATION (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (62%) Social Security (US); Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Privatization; Social Security (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



308 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: A survey of consumer attitudes reveals the depth of the challenge that the agencies face.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
AS the kingpins of Madison Avenue gather for a major annual meeting, there is further evidence of the growing challenge they confront in seeking to break through the cacophony of advertising that surrounds -- and increasingly annoys -- consumers.
 At the 2004 management conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, which begins today in Miami, senior executives will learn the results of a survey of consumers conducted on behalf of the organization by Yankelovich Partners, the market research company. The survey, to be presented tomorrow at the opening general session of the conference, shows that the effectiveness of campaigns that agencies produce for marketers is deteriorating, said J. Walker Smith, president at Yankelovich, because ''negative perceptions about advertising have substantially increased.''
 The survey findings are significant because industry executives are frantically searching for ways to forge more emotional connections with fractious, and fractionated, consumers that differ from conventional methods like running 30-second television commercials and print advertisements. 
 The risk posed by some of the new approaches, like placing sponsored brand messages or products in the entertainment content of programs or publications, is that consumers will consider such selling strategies even more obnoxious.
 ''People have a love-hate relationship with advertising,'' said Mr. Smith, who offered a preview of the survey in an interview before the conference began. ''But a far greater percentage are saying they have concerns, primarily related to its growing obtrusiveness.''
 For instance, Mr. Smith said, 54 percent of the survey respondents said they ''avoid buying products that overwhelm them with advertising and marketing''; 60 percent said their opinion of advertising ''is much more negative than just a few years ago''; 61 percent said they agreed that the amount of advertising and marketing to which they are exposed ''is out of control.'' 
 Also, 65 percent said they believed that they ''are constantly bombarded with too much'' advertising; and 69 percent said they ''are interested in products and services that would help them skip or block marketing.''
 How to market an antimarketing product to people surfeited with marketing? Ah, there's the rub.
 Even when fewer than a majority of the survey respondents agreed with a statement, Mr. Smith said, the results offered little solace for agencies. For example, what he called a ''fairly significant'' 45 percent of respondents said the amount of advertising and marketing they were exposed to ''detracts from the experience of everyday life,'' while 33 percent said they ''would be willing to have a slightly lower standard of living to live in a society without marketing and advertising.''
 The results also offer some suggestions, Mr. Smith said, to help narrow what he described as ''the growing gap between how consumers want to be communicated with and the way advertisers communicate with them.'' For example, respondents said ''there's an opportunity for advertising to become a source of competitive advantage for a brand,'' Mr. Smith said, ''if it's focused on product features and services.''
 ''The marketing itself has become part of how consumers view a brand,'' Mr. Smith said, ''so if you have two brands at parity with each other, more and more the one people are likely to do business with is the one that does a better job in reaching them with its advertising.''
 The association, which represents 1,196 agencies that place an estimated 75 percent of all national advertising, recognizes it must address the consumers' changing attitudes, if some other topics on the conference agenda are any indication.
 Among the subjects to be discussed at the conference, which continues through Friday at the Ritz-Carlton South Beach hotel, are ''advertising in the age of obesity,'' the title of a speech by Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, and how agencies can develop more effective campaigns, to be covered by August A. Busch IV, president of Anheuser-Busch.
 Other topics are how agencies can create campaigns consumers will like more, or at least dislike less, to be discussed by Linda Kaplan Thaler, chief executive and chief creative officer at the Kaplan Thaler Group in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, and how perceptions of the agency business need to be improved, to be addressed by Ron Berger, elected last month as the chairman of the association for 2004-6.
 ''Our industry must do a better job of talking about the tremendous value we create for clients and the economy,'' said Mr. Berger, who is also chief executive and chief creative officer at Euro RSCG MVBMS Partners in New York, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas.
 Although ''the last few years for the industry have not been great ones,'' said Mr. Berger, who offered a preview of his remarks in a recent interview, ''I just don't think other industries beat themselves up the way we do.''
 Even if, as has been widely discussed, the traditional 30-second spot has devolved into a much less effective way to sell goods and services, Mr. Berger said, ''so what?''
 ''The great agencies don't say, The 30-second commercial is dead, so we're dead. They understand that, and embrace that, and will reinvent themselves and what they do to market brands and products.''
 ''The idea that TiVo, remote controls, any technology, is fatal to our business I find absurd,'' he said. ''The opportunities of technology and what it enables us to do are more exciting than at any time in our history.''
 Mr. Berger's enthusiasm may be contagious, if judged by the advance registration for the conference, typically a good gauge of how optimistic or pessimistic agency executives are about prospects for the industry.
 Almost 330 people have registered ahead of the conference, said O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the association, known as the Four A's, compared with the 257 who attended the 2003 conference and the 293 at the 2002 conference.
 Although the anticipated attendance is lower than for the boom year of 2000, when 450 people attended, Mr. Drake said, ''we're going to have the largest member attendance since 1990,'' which is attendees minus speakers, representatives of media companies and other organizations like the Association of National Advertisers, spouses and reporters.
 ''I'm feeling really good about the meeting,'' Mr. Drake said, ''finally.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A survey indicated that an increasing number of consumers found advertising, which fills Times Square in Manhattan, to be annoying. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (96%); MARKET RESEARCH (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); BRANDING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%) Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Behavior; Public Opinion; Market Research

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%) American Assn of Advertising Agencies; Yankelovich Partners

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



309 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Canada Rate Is Lowered For 5th Time In Last Year

BYLINE: By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 13 

 BODY:
The Bank of Canada lowered its key interest rate on Tuesday for the fifth time in the last year, noting that many Canadian businesses still needed to adjust to a more competitive global economy in spite of benefits from strong commodity prices. 
 The central bank dropped its overnight lending rate to 2 percent from 2.25 percent. The rate was 3.25 percent a year ago when the Canadian economy appeared to be on the verge of a growth spurt and accelerating inflation. 
 Since then, a sharp rise in the Canadian dollar has dampened exports, and consumers, previously the driving force behind economic growth, have turned more cautious. The Canadian dollar surged from a low of 62 American cents in early 2002 to 79 cents in January. 
 The recent interest rate cuts have put a brake on the Canadian currency by making yields on Canadian securities less attractive to foreigners. The Canadian dollar has lost more than a cent in recent days, and was trading Tuesday at slightly under 75 cents. 
 In contrast to the slide in interest rates north of the border, the Federal Reserve has held the federal funds rate at 1 percent since last June. 
 The central bank in Ottawa said in a statement that global economic developments, like currency movements and intensifying competition, ''create a need for adjustments by many businesses.'' As a result of the buoyant dollar, Canadian businesses ''are not only having to become more cost efficient, but also more innovative in terms of their products and processes,'' said Jayson Myers, chief economist at Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters, a trade group based in Ottawa. 
 In addition, Patricia Mohr, an economist at the Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, said that Canadian consumers were generally ''much more conservative'' than Americans. The spending habits of Canadians were more sensitive to movements in their currency and the performance of export-related industries, Ms. Mohr said. 
 One sign of faltering consumer demand north of the border has been a drop in motor vehicle sales in the last eight months, on a year-over-year basis. The economy shed jobs in both February and March, with the unemployment rate edging up to 7.5 percent. 
 Canada's gross domestic product contracted slightly in January and analysts have scaled back their projections of first-quarter growth, now estimated at about 2 percent, adjusted for inflation. Canada's growth rate for 2003 as a whole was 1.7 percent, compared with 3.1 percent in the United States. 
 Exports made up 41 percent of Canada's total output last year, the highest proportion among major industrial countries. In the United States, it was 9.5 percent. 
 Canada is a large producer of a variety of commodities -- oil and natural gas, nickel, copper, coal and lumber, for example -- whose prices have moved up sharply in the last year. 
 Still, the combined value of exports by the farm, energy and forestry sectors remains less than shipments of machinery and automotive products. Furthermore, the benefit of higher prices for some commodities like natural gas has been mitigated over the last year by stagnant volumes. 
 Some analysts took the view that Tuesday's interest rate cut would probably be the last in the current cycle. David Wolf, an economist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto, a unit of the Royal Bank of Canada, wrote to clients that the central bank appeared confident that ''the current very low level of rates will be sufficient to spur the needed growth.'' 
 But Arthur Donner, an economic consultant in Toronto, said that ''profound problems'' in the American economy, notably soaring trade and budget deficits, were likely to lead to a further weakening of the American dollar, and thus another jump in the Canadian unit. ''We've all breathed a sign of relief,'' Mr. Donner said. ''But I wouldn't be surprised to see the Canadian dollar test 80 cents.'' 
 Mr. Myers of the manufacturers and exporters group said that he thought the economy was ''much weaker than the statistics suggest'' in spite of rising demand for Canadian goods from the United States. 
 Citing recent plant closures and rising unemployment, Mr. Myers said that ''we haven't seen the full impact of the high dollar.''
 ''Companies may be getting more product out the door, but they're not necessarily making more money,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The benefit of higher prices for commodities like natural gas has been mitigated over the last year by stagnant volumes. This Anadarko plant in Alberta has a capacity of 140 million cubic feet of gas a day. (Photo by Anadarko via Bloomberg News)(pg. W7)Chart: ''Narrowing the Gap''The Bank of Canada lowered interest rates again yesterday, bringing them closer to rates in the U.S.Graph tracks Bank Of Canada overnight lending rate and United States Federal Funds Target Rate since 2002.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COAL MARKETS (77%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRENDS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (55%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%) Currency; Credit; Interest Rates; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Canada

TICKER: BNS (TSX) (84%); BNS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%)

PERSON: Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



310 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Benefit Funds Owed Millions By Hospitals

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Private hospitals in New York City have fallen more than $100 million behind on payments to employee benefit and pension funds in recent years, deepening the hospitals' money woes and threatening thousands of workers with the loss of health insurance and other benefits.
 The arrears have roughly doubled since the start of 2003, and about three dozen hospitals and nursing homes are now listed by the funds as delinquent on payments. ''This is absolutely the worst situation we've seen, both in terms of the dollars and the number of institutions involved,'' said Mitra Behroozi, executive director of the funds, separate entities that are controlled jointly by the hospitals and the health workers' union. 
 For years, hospitals in New York have complained that they were being squeezed by mounting competition, cost-cutting insurance companies, falling government payments and a sour economy. Several changes suggest that the situation is becoming acute: the hospital industry statewide lost money in 2002 and 2003, eight hospitals closed in that time, and Wall Street analysts said that financially, New York's hospitals are the weakest in the nation and are falling further behind. 
 Making payments to the benefits and pension funds is among an employer's most basic obligations, and hospital and union officials say the failure to do so is an especially alarming sign for one of the city's largest employers. The benefits fund pays for health coverage, life insurance, disability coverage, college scholarships and other services for more than 100,000 low-wage hospital workers; when the hospitals fall behind on payments, the workers' benefits are sometimes cut off.
 Just two related institutions, Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens and Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center in Brooklyn, account for about $35 million of the debt owed to the two funds -- almost five times as much as any other hospital or hospital chain.
 Fund officials said one reason the Jamaica and Brookdale debts were allowed to grow so large was a series of accounting errors by the funds that partially concealed the debt, leaving them unaware of the size of the arrears until this year. They also conceded that in years when delinquencies were rare, the fund was somewhat lax in pursuing them, allowing debts to grow for many months before trying to force payment. They said the funds did not react fast enough over the last year or two as the problems multiplied.
 ''We are not going to permit this kind of thing going forward, and you'll no longer see institutions accruing more than three months of debt before we take action,'' said Ms. Behroozi, a former lawyer for S.E.I.U./1199, New York's largest health care union, who took over the funds on Jan. 1 with a mandate to get tough on delinquents. ''But that doesn't change the underlying fact that a lot of these institutions can't pay their bills.''
 Jamaica and Brookdale have worked out repayment plans with the pension and benefit funds, and industry analysts said the two hospitals' financial conditions were no more tenuous than those of dozens of others in the city. The more troubling news, the analysts said, was the overall size of the combined delinquencies, and how rapidly they have climbed.
 The funds in question cover more than 100,000 members of Local 1199 who work at hospitals, nonprofit nursing homes and some small businesses like drugstores. Most of the employers are in New York City, some are in the downstate New York suburbs, and a few are upstate or in New Jersey. The overwhelming bulk of the debt belongs to hospitals in New York City.
 Hospital executives say they make the payments if at all possible -- even if it means postponing other debts -- because their contract with 1199 obligates them to pay 18 percent interest on any late payments, though some of that is often forgiven in settlements negotiated later.
 ''In retrospect, we would have been happier if the arrearage didn't go that high, but it would have meant that somebody else didn't get paid,'' said David Rosen, chief executive officer of MediSys Health Network, the parent company of Jamaica, Brookdale, Flushing Hospital Medical Center and several nursing homes and neighborhood clinics. If the hospitals had kept up their fund payments, he said, they would have been unable to make needed investments in new computer systems and in a renovated labor and delivery ward at Brookdale.
 MediSys took over Brookdale, one of the city's perennially troubled hospitals, in 2000, hoping to turn it around, an effort that Mr. Rosen said is ''still very much a work in progress.''
 When an employer becomes delinquent, the funds send letters warning that they will cut off benefits to its workers. The resulting employee uproar usually prompts the business to resume payment and agree to some kind of repayment plan.
 The threat to terminate benefits was once fairly rare, but it has been made about 20 times in the last two years, fund officials say. In a few cases, it has been carried out, but so far not against a major institution. 
 In the last year, workers have lost their benefits at St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains (which has since closed), Island Medical Center in Hempstead and Bedford Stuyvesant Community Mental Health Center, and those at Avalon Gardens, a nursing home in Smithtown, are scheduled to lose theirs next week, Ms. Behroozi said -- 857 people at the four institutions.
 The hospitals' problems put union officials in a difficult position. Some delinquent hospitals resume payments by making budget cuts, including laying off union workers. The fund administrators obtained a court order against one employer, Parkway Hospital in Queens, diverting part of Parkway's state Medicaid payments to the funds before they ever reached the hospital. Parkway then bounced some payroll checks.
 ''The bottom line is, from the union's perspective, the obligation is to make these payments,'' said Jennifer Cunningham, the executive director of the Service Employees International Union in New York. ''But if it's a really troubled institution, insisting can result in lots of problems.''
 Documents provided to The Times by a fund official showed employers owing more than $130 million, including interest, as of March 31. Ms. Behroozi said payments made in the last two weeks have brought the total down by about $6 million.
 All told, just eight employers accounted for two-thirds of the debt: Brookdale, in Brooklyn; Jamaica and Parkway Hospitals, in Queens; St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers and Beth Israel Medical Center, each with several locations in multiple boroughs and headquartered in Manhattan; North General Hospital and Cabrini Medical Center, both in Manhattan; and Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, in the Bronx.
 Those documents do not show the entire size of the problem.
 Many hospitals in New York State, including a few in the city, are not part of the 1199 system and are in debt to their own benefit and pension funds. For example, the state comptroller's office says that Nassau University Medical Center owes $6.4 million in back payments to the state funds that cover its workers.
 Some employers, like Brookdale and Cabrini, had large fund debts a year ago, the documents show, and have missed more payments since then. Other big delinquents, like Jamaica, Beth Israel, St. Vincent and Daughters of Jacob Nursing Home in the Bronx, incurred almost all their debts in the last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); ACUTE CARE (73%); INSURANCE (72%); NURSING HOMES (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



311 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: When Flour Power Invaded the Kitchen

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH

 BODY:
''COOKING is easy,'' said Laura Shapiro, a food historian who is the author of ''Something From the Oven,'' published this month by Viking. It is about how in the 1940's and 50's the food industry tried to convince American women that cooking was difficult in order to persuade them that they needed newly developed packaged and frozen foods and cake mixes. And how women fought back.
 Ms. Shapiro, 57, small and intense, was scuttling around her kitchen on the Upper West Side, making a ''Fluffy Two-Egg Yellow Cake'' from scratch, no mix, from a recipe in the ''Good Housekeeping Cook Book'' (1963). She is also the author of ''Perfection Salad'' (1986), about the home economics movement and creation of an American cuisine.
 Ms. Shapiro was trying to show that baking a cake is easy. I was her student. I think cooking is hard. I have never baked a cake, and can tell when the roast is done because the fire alarm goes off. 
 ''The kitchen has always been the place where housewives who feel inadequate must confront their own failings,'' she wrote. 
 Baking cakes is at the heart of her book: cake, she argues, is where the food industry did early battle for the hearts and minds of women. ''The American layer cake is a sign and symbol of more than dessert,'' she told me. ''It's your best work in the kitchen, the highest thing you can offer to someone you love, the most emotionally laden thing.
 ''I gave a talk on cake mixes to a woman's church group in Michigan,'' Ms. Shapiro continued. ''I asked them if they used cake mixes and how they felt about them.'' The guests described their problems and asked for guidance. ''People jumped out of their seats,'' she said. ''They poured their hearts out. It was like an A.A. meeting.'' 
 Ms. Shapiro was measuring the flour in a cup. ''I had to go to two stores to find cake flour,'' she complained.'' They all had thousands of mixes. ''You don't need a sifter,'' she explained, using an ordinary strainer.
 Ms. Shapiro writes that the food industry's hunger for women's grocery dollars was partly spurred by a decrease in flour sales. The decline began after World War I, when many women stopped baking because of the work involved, and bought packaged bread instead.
 Companies like General Mills and Pillsbury tried various strategies to increase flour sales, she said. One was the Pillsbury Bake-Off contest, invented by the Leo Burnett advertising agency in 1949. That year, a hundred finalists marched into the ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria, which had been outfitted with 100 electric ovens. The baking began. The winner, Theadora Smafield, from Detroit, received a $50,000 check from Eleanor Roosevelt for her No-Knead Water-Rising Nut Twists. Pillsbury estimated that the event attracted 700,000 new customers. 
 But it wasn't enough, Ms. Shapiro said, and soon the companies were selling cake mixes -- everything needed in a box: sugar, shortening, flour, dried eggs. Just add water. Before World War II, a variety of cake mixes were introduced. But women were not impressed, and sales remained shallow. It took an Austrian consumer psychologist, Ernest Dichter, to figure out why, Ms. Shapiro writes. In research for General Mills, he discovered that women felt guilty about using the mixes and simply adding water and stirring. With the mix, she put nothing of herself in it. His solution was to give her something to do to feel creative. Leave out the dried eggs. Let her crack fresh eggs into the mix. (Fresh eggs, of course, resulted in better cakes.) After the war ended, with Dichter's advice in hand, General Mills reformulated its mixes. Sales improved.
 Ms. Shapiro's book describes how advertisers, to help sell the mixes, bombarded women with rhetoric that implied that cooking was drudgery and time-consuming.
 To give the industry a human face, companies invented fictitious experts, including Ann Pillsbury of Pillsbury and Betty Crocker of General Mills, who advised customers. ''Much of the guesswork is gone from cooking,'' Ms. Crocker advised in 1954 in an ad for angel food cake mix. ''Kitchen time is cut way down. By the ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook foods.'' The industry used the same techniques to sell frozen and packaged foods.
 Enormous sums had been invested during World War II in new technology for dried and frozen foods for the troops. ''Foods formerly manufactured solely for Army use will now be put on the civilian market,'' American Cookery magazine said in 1946. There were indestructible luncheon meats such as Spam and canned deep-fried hamburgers to market. Manufacturers developed dehydrated wines and frozen coffee, prepackaged in paper cups, each holding an ounce of frozen coffee extract -- just add boiling water. 
 How to get women to buy such things?
 First they had to be convinced they wanted them, Ms. Shapiro says, and food writers helped change their minds. Ms. Shapiro points to Elizabeth Gordon, who was the editor of House Beautiful magazine. ''Eating well no longer means drudgery in the kitchen, though millions of women have not yet discovered this fact,'' Ms. Gordon wrote in 1951. ''We have been slow to coordinate into our lives all the new homemaking inventions and food improvements of the last 20 years.'' 
 Some went further, Ms. Shapiro says, sounding like ad copywriters. As Poppy Cannon wrote in her ''Bride's Cookbook'' (1954), ''All the really fine prepared stews, soups, sauces, and quick-frozen specialties have been made from the same ingredients that you would use, and with the addition of time, art, and skill.'' 
 To promote packaged foods, the industry created recipes such as coleslaw with canned fruit cocktail, sweet potatoes stuffed with peanut butter, frozen lemonade salad dressing. A Heinz recipe for meringue called for a quarter cup of ketchup folded into beaten egg whites.
 Women bought some frozen and packaged foods because of their low prices, Ms. Shapiro says, and because of their convenience. The foods were useful for a quick meal -- for children when parents went out, for instance. But products that were supposed to set women free -- frozen and prepackaged entrees and desserts -- remained on the margins of cooking and never completely replaced home cooking.
 Indeed, a survey by the Department of Agriculture, which ran from 1959 to 1960, found that packaged foods accounted for only 14 cents for every dollar spent on food.
 Still, the battle lines were drawn. It took two seminal developments to begin to counter the undermining of the American kitchen by industry, Ms. Shapiro writes. In 1963, Julia Child's ''French Chef'' made its debut on public television, and not long after Betty Friedan's ''Feminine Mystique'' was published. Both caught on like wildfire. ''At first this seemed contradictory,'' Ms. Shapiro told me. ''But then I understood. Betty Friedan was telling women they could take charge of their own lives. Julia Child was telling women that could take charge of dinner. It was the same message.'' 
 Ms. Shapiro was asked about the future. ''You can cook sometimes -- or never,'' she said. ''Life is set up for all possibilities. That's going to be the future.''
 But there is bad news as well, Ms. Shapiro said. What happened in the 50's continues today, she said. In great measure, the food industry still governs people's lives, she said. ''They are busy trying to co-opt the organic food movement,'' she said. ''You can buy organic boxed macaroni and cheese, junk food. We've handed over our children to the food industry to raise,'' she continued. ''We trusted the food industry to take care of us. Guess what? That's not what they do. They are in the business of making money.''
 Ms. Shapiro pulled her cake from the oven and gently prodded it. ''It's pulling away a bit from the sides,'' she said, ''but springing back when you touch it.'' She had made frosting from melted chocolate and sour cream; now she spread it on. Delicious. The sour cream gave the chocolate a tangy taste, not too sweet. 
 ''I think what women do in the kitchen is enormously revealing,'' Ms. Shapiro said. ''The kitchen is the most interesting room in the house.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: JUST ADD EGGS -- Laura Shapiro of New York wrote about the era when cake mixes were new. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); WRITERS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); WOMEN (89%); HISTORY (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); WORLD WAR I (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); BAKED GOODS (57%); RELIGION (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (50%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



312 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Freedom Fries: Why 2 Democracies Snipe

BYLINE: By DICK HOWARD. 
Dick Howard is distinguished professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and author of ''The Specter of Democracy.''

 BODY:

SOFT POWER
The Means to Success in World Politics
By Joseph S. Nye Jr.
191 pages. PublicAffairs. $25.

DANGEROUS DE-LIAISONS
What's Really Behind the War Between France and the U.S.
By Jean-Marie Colombani and Walter Wells
163 pages. Melville House. $16.95.
 Jean-Marie Colombani, editor in chief of Le Monde, wrote this famous front-page headline right after Sept. 11, 2001: ''Nous Sommes Tous Americains'' (''We Are All Americans''). Within a year he published a skeptical book turning that affirmation into a question. As trans-Atlantic tensions increased, it seemed logical for a publisher to invite him to join in a dialogue with Walter Wells, executive editor of the Paris-based International Herald Tribune, published by The New York Times Company. Together, in ''Dangerous De-Liaisons,'' they ask whether these tensions stem from a simple misunderstanding or whether they have roots in a deeper problem.
 This English version disappoints, its thematic incoherence made worse by the translation. Human rights become ''man's rights,'' Western Europe becomes ''Europe of the West,'' and although it is less euphemistic to speak of ''positive discrimination,'' Americans call it affirmative action. 
 The informal conversations that make up this book are grouped into five chapters that cover historical and contemporary French-American relations. Although its subtitle hypes a ''war'' between France and the United States, the book does not explain ''what's really behind'' that conflict; instead it multiplies causes without providing any hierarchy among them.
 At the most basic level, a clash between the political cultures of the modern world's two oldest democracies seems to underlie the irritating French-American quarrels. The French are prisoners of their own history, using it to question and to understand the challenges facing their nation, while Americans confront unexpected difficulties with pragmatic optimism. While Americans had only to liberate themselves from Britain to live free, the French had to seize state power and try (again and again) to use it to transform a hierarchical society.
 As a result the French are intensely political, while Americans look to society for solutions. The French are statist. Because their first two republics became empires that were then defeated in war, they are multilateralist. Americans are self-reliant, and when their instinctive isolationism cannot be maintained, they strike out unilaterally.
 These two democracies were made, it seems, to misunderstand each other. Stereotypes emerge. The French are said to feel threatened by American power and will resort to any means to undermine it. Americans are narcissistic and touchy, subject to fits of Manichaean madness. But more than psychology is involved. 
 Toward the end, Mr. Wells introduces a new element. Americans identify France with World War II Vichy, whose ''dark significance'' they connect to the Holocaust. France's historic ties to the Arab world and its recent anti-Semitic vandalism point in the same direction. This, continues Mr. Wells, is not the attitude of ''Joe Six-Pack'' but that of ''leading opinion makers.''
 At this point we need to turn to ''Soft Power,'' by Joseph S. Nye Jr. He combines a theoretical argument about the nature of power in the modern, interdependent world with a practical critique of the unidimensional vision of the Bush administration, drunk on its image of military prowess and blind to what his subtitle calls ''the means to success in world politics.''
 Mr. Nye introduced the concept of soft power in his prescient 1990 study, ''Bound to Lead.'' That book was a reply to the prophecies of the inevitable decline of an overstretched American empire that were then popular (and perhaps too quickly forgotten); this book is an attack on a shortsighted empire condemned by its own hubris.
 Power can be defined as the ability to constrain another to do one's will. Its simplest form, hard power, is based on force. But power can also rely on economic interest or, more subtly as soft power, it can influence the agenda of the other participants in the contest. Cultural attractiveness can earn (or lose) power.
 Effective criticism, which differs from polemic, has to explain not only that an opponent is wrong but why he errs. Thus Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld is not wrong to insist that ''weakness is provocative''; but the maxim -- one can do anything with bayonets save sit on them -- remains relevant.
 That is why ''Soft Power'' begins with a tightly argued explanation of the tridimensional nature of power. It then examines the sources and varieties of American soft power but warns, too, that others can use this cultural resource. These chapters effectively illustrate their positive argument by analyzing the missteps of the Bush administration. By not ignoring the strength of hard power, Mr. Nye's critique is all the more convincing. But his concern with contemporary politics comes at a price: whereas ''Bound to Lead'' was dynamic and future-oriented, ''Soft Power'' reaches less far.
 Effective criticism does not always lead to practical prescription. When he explains how to wield soft power, Mr. Nye is frustrating. Governments can use it (as ''public diplomacy''), but it rests on a broader base, becoming increasingly general and therefore difficult to pin down.
 Therefore soft power can be not just the government, but everything from popular culture to a vigorous civil society. But it needs to be used differently when addressing terror networks or criminal conspiracies or the rebuilding of civil societies. Useful to counter the first two, could soft power also be useful to encourage civil society? Perhaps Mr. Nye's neglect of historical dynamics explains why the concept of a civil society appears only once.
 Although many French would agree with Mr. Nye's criticism of President Bush's foreign policy, their concern with political culture goes further. For them the attempt to export American values on the equivalent of Napoleonic bayonets recalls the painful historical experience of their own revolutionary democracy. That explains the vehemence of their denunciation. They wonder whether the change in American political culture is temporary or a sign of something deeper. 
 And because political culture is the essence of civil society, their attitude could be interpreted as an attempt to use their soft power to ensure that the change is only temporary, and the crisis not a war but a passing phase. If he thought about it, I suspect that Mr. Nye would approve.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph S. Nye Jr. (Photo by Thomas J. Fitzsimmons/PublicAffairs)
 Jean-Marie Colombani, left, and Walter Wells (Photo by Melville House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); LITERATURE (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (68%); DISCRIMINATION (66%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: Dick Howard; Joseph S Jr Nye; Jean-Marie Colombani; Walter Wells

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



313 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Report Backs Regulating Utility Emissions

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Regulation is more effective than relying on voluntary programs to reduce air pollution, according to the authors of a new review of the environmental record of the nation's 100 largest electric power companies.
 The report, to be released today, was sponsored by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies, which includes environmental, investor and business groups; the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group; and the Public Service Enterprise Group, the parent of New Jersey's largest utility. It focuses on data collected by the federal government from the utility industry covering 1991 to 2002. 
 The data showed progress in reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, two federally regulated pollutants that contribute to smog and acid rain and are associated with increased risk of heart and lung disease. 
 But unregulated carbon dioxide emissions, which most scientists say are raising the temperature of the atmosphere and contributing to more violent weather, rose substantially in the 1990's. Utilities generate roughly the same amount of carbon dioxide for each kilowatt of power produced that they did in 1991, according to the report.
 ''Voluntary programs don't work at all in the utility sector,'' said David G. Hawkins, a former assistant administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency who now directs the climate center at the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
 Mr. Hawkins said that the 35 percent decline in sulfur dioxide emissions and the 28 percent decline in nitrogen compounds since 1990 were limited victories given the E.P.A.'s estimates that roughly 30,000 people are still dying prematurely each year from exposure to particulate forms of the two chemicals emitted by power plants.
 American Electric Power, the nation's largest utility and the owner of numerous coal-fired plants, was the largest producer of air pollutants, while Exelon, the fourth-largest utility and a major operator of nuclear power plants, had far lower emissions. For example, American Electric generated 70 percent more power in 2002 than Exelon and emitted 15 times more carbon dioxide.
 American Electric, which has advocated relying on voluntary efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, argued yesterday against drawing broad regulatory lessons from such different pollutants. 
 Power plants generate almost 70 percent of the sulfur dioxide air pollution, and reasonably priced technology exists to cut such emissions, so imposing regulations like caps on the industry makes sense, said John M. McManus, vice president for environmental services at the company, based in Columbus, Ohio. 
 But, he said, utilities represent a third of the carbon dioxide emissions; no technology exists to capture carbon dioxide from its smokestacks at a reasonable cost; and other air pollutants are far more potent contributors to global warming.
 Thus, Mr. McManus said, it was sound policy to not focus on power plants in considering what to do about greenhouse gases.
 The report, titled ''Benchmarking Air Emissions,'' is available at www.nrdc.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITIES INDUSTRY (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); EMISSIONS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ETHICAL INVESTING (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); AIR POLLUTANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (79%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); BENCHMARKING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); SMOG (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); ACID RAIN (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%) Air Pollution; Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Sulfur Dioxide; Nitrogen Oxide; Carbon Dioxide

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (92%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%) Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (92%); PEG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%)

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



314 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Hallmark TV Unit May Sell Foreign Assets

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Crown Media Holdings, the parent company of the Hallmark Channel cable network, said yesterday that it was exploring the sale of its overseas operations, as well as the foreign rights to its library of 700 television programs. 
 Crown Media is the entertainment unit of Hallmark Cards, which controls Crown through voting shares. Its primary asset is its cable entertainment network, which is available in 59 million homes in the United States and 57 million homes in 122 countries abroad. 
 A company spokeswoman said yesterday that there was no timetable for the sale of the foreign cable network but that the company was already in preliminary discussions with a number of buyers. The channel is carried in Italy, France, Germany and Britain, among other countries. Crown owns the rights to series like ''M*A*S*H,'' ''Matlock'' and ''Touched by an Angel.'' 
 Hallmark intends to hold on to its domestic network for the time being, said Bill Aliber, the chief financial officer of Crown, in a telephone interview yesterday. But companies that own single cable networks are finding it increasingly difficult to get the same economies of scale as entertainment companies with numerous cable networks.
 ''Hallmark is still looking for full distribution'' of the domestic network, Mr. Aliber said. ''At that point it may weigh selling the network.''
 Mr. Aliber pointed out that in the United States the parent company of Crown owned the franchise on about 4,300 Hallmark card stores and has developed a well-known brand name that helps it market the channel aggressively.
 While marketing a channel is difficult, Crown benefited when it struck struck a deal with DirecTV, the satellite company, to issue shares of Crown stock to DirecTV in exchange for carrying the network, helping to broaden Hallmark's reach. But despite initial heavy marketing, the channel generated significant losses in its first several years. 
 The fourth quarter of 2003 was the first time the channel generated positive cash flow -- nearly $10 million on revenues of $69 million -- and Mr. Aliber said the company was optimistic that performance would improve in coming quarters. 
 There has been speculation that Hallmark would buy back Crown, bringing it into the fold of the $4 billion privately held company whose assets include Hallmark Entertainment, which produces television programming, and Binney & Smith, the company that makes Crayola crayons.
 Taking Crown public in 2000, however, was useful for Hallmark, Mr. Aliber noted because it helped attract investors like Liberty Media. Liberty owns 10 million shares of stock in Crown. 
 Shares of Crown Media rose 14 cents, to $9.15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES MFG (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Television; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: HALLMARK CARDS INC (92%); CROWN MEDIA HOLDINGS INC (85%); CRAYOLA LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Crown Media Holdings; Hallmark Channel

TICKER: CRWN (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (85%); SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (51%)

PERSON: Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (56%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



315 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: What Grade Inflation?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Princeton Tries to Put a Cap on Giving A's'' (news article, April 8) reports on concerns about grade inflation at Princeton and other Ivy League schools, where more A's are being given out than they were 25 years ago. 
 Yet rather than professors' being more lenient today, couldn't one explanation be simply that the students are brighter? 
 With more young people competing for spaces at the top colleges, and fewer being admitted solely on the basis of family connections or socioeconomic class, it is possible that the caliber of the students has simply increased.

KATHERINE HUGHES
New York, April 8, 2004

The writer is assistant director of Work and Education Reform Research, Institute on Education and the Economy, Teachers College, Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



316 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Terrorism

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''August 2001: Terror Loomed as America Slept'' (letters, April 13)? Incorrect! Terror looms as America sleeps! This is not a past-tense situation! The Bush administration, our government and most of all our people are not doing what is needed to realistically defeat terrorism.
 During World War II, approximately 42 percent of our gross national product was devoted to winning the war. Presently, our nation is devoting less than 5 percent of our gross national product to the war on terrorism.
 Our troops are making the sacrifice on our behalf, but as a people we are not making the sacrifice on their behalf. Our politicians are too preoccupied with their political careers (party before country). Our people are too preoccupied with their own ''comfort zones.'' All of this self-centered preoccupation is at the expense of our national security. We had better wake up, or the price we pay will be much higher than loss of political careers or individual comfort.

JOHN T. HITCHCOCK
Paradise, Calif., April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WORLD WAR II (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



317 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: VICTIMS OF KIDNAPPING

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Why Were Chinese in Iraq? Like Many Neighbors, They Needed Work

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: PINGTAN, China, April 13 

 BODY:
Li Guiping first considered buying passage to Israel but worried that he would not find work there. His neighbor, Xue Yougui, once made it to Thailand but returned frustrated, jobless and broke. Their best hope was the United States, but neither man could afford the more than $50,000 charged by smugglers.
 Then fliers began to appear on this small island just off China's southern coast advertising work and money in a new promised land: Iraq. Mr. Xue was still unemployed, with a new baby. Mr. Li earned only $50 a month taxiing people on his motorcycle. Last Friday, after paying a broker for a passport, they flew to the Middle East. 
 Desperation outweighed fear.
 ''He said he was going on a business trip so he could make a lot of money,'' said Mr. Xue's older brother, Xue Youmao.
 Instead, the men had barely made it across the Iraqi border from Jordan on Sunday when they were kidnapped with five other Chinese workers. Their release on Monday defused a diplomatic crisis for China but left unanswered for much of the rest of the world the question of what seven Chinese laborers were doing in such a violent place.
 But anyone familiar with Fujian Province knew the answer. If different regions of China are known for exporting different products, Fujian is known for exporting human beings, usually illegally. 
 Fleeing desperate poverty, often by paying tens of thousands of dollars to smugglers known as snakeheads, Fujianese have long been willing to go anywhere and take any risks in search of work and opportunity.
 Like, for example, possibly staying in Iraq even after being kidnapped. Mr. Xue's wife, Li Weimei, spoke to her husband briefly on Tuesday and was relieved that he was healthy. When asked about their future, she said the family faced mounting debts and her husband had no prospect of a job in Fujian.
 ''I hope he can stay there and do some business to make some money,'' she said.
 The roaring Chinese economy is creating jobs and opportunities, but it has also created a stark divide between rich and poor. If the migration out of Fujian is a bit slower than when Fujianese began flooding into New York's Chinatown and elsewhere in the world more than a decade ago, it is still moving steadily, sometimes with tragic results.
 In February, at least 19 illegal Chinese immigrants, many of them from Fujian, drowned while working as shellfish collectors in Morecambe Bay in England. In June 2000, the bodies of 58 people from Fujian were discovered inside an airtight tomato truck as they were being smuggled into England. One of the best known incidents occurred in 1993, when a freighter called the Golden Venture, packed with 286 smuggled Chinese workers, most from Fujian, ran aground off New York. Ten people died.
 The seven men kidnapped in Iraq were apparently headed to Falluja, the center of recent Iraqi uprisings. After their release on Monday, images of the men were shown in media outlets across China. Internet chat rooms buzzed with discussion about the kidnappings, with some people speculating that the men had been mistaken for citizens of Japan, which has sent troops to Iraq.
 The Chinese government has not provided the name of the company for which the men planned to work in Iraq. 
 Government statistics show that eight Chinese companies have offices in Iraq, with 23 Chinese employees. Li Zenggui, 59, the father of Li Guiping, said his son had planned to do construction and decoration work. A local Communist Party official told the Chinese press that a Pingtan man had won a contract to paint a hotel in Iraq.
 The men, who range in age from 18 to 49, were farmers, fishermen and laborers, all of them from this arid, rocky island in the misty strait between the Chinese mainland and Taiwan. The small strips of arable land are planted with peanuts or vegetables, and many men survive by fishing or cultivating seaweed.
 A drive around the island shows that the farmers in the fields are mostly old men or women. The streets are filled with women and children. There are a few young men with motorcycle taxis or shops, but many of them are gone. Li Zenggui said his son had been trying to leave for a few years, partly because the family owed $2,500 in medical bills.
 ''First, he thought about going to Israel,'' the father said. ''My son didn't tell me anything about going to Iraq until the day he left. He was very depressed and didn't say much. But he was not scared.''
 Mr. Li said the family had spent almost $5,000 for his passport and tickets, a sum equal to several years' income but just a tenth the cost of a trip to the United States. 
 He said a local passport broker had assured his son that the passport was real. Government officials have not released any information about the status of the document, but one official said the broker was being questioned.
 ''He has nothing at home,'' Mr. Li said, explaining his son's decision to take such a risk. ''He just thought there would be work to do there. He has a family to raise. My son only thought about money.''
 The advertisements about jobs in Iraq appear to have begun circulating late last year. Ms. Li said her husband, Xue Yougui, had been intrigued when he saw one of the fliers. After the failure of his venture in Thailand, his fish farm was destroyed by a typhoon. The prospect of a big paycheck overshadowed any fears about violence in Iraq.
 ''The reconstruction of Iraq offers great business opportunities,'' a Chinese newspaper quoted one of the fliers as promising. ''Go to Iraq to make quick money.''
 That promise seems to have been a lie. One man was quoted in a Chinese newspaper in Fujian as saying that his son now makes $90 a month but has little left over after paying for housing and food.
 Told of that account, Ms. Li reconsidered her belief that her husband should stay in Iraq.
 ''Then I hope he comes home as soon as possible,'' she said. But, she added, the family took out $5,000 in high-interest loans to pay for his trip. Her husband was jobless before he left, and he would be jobless if he returned.
 ''He will have nothing to do,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The parents of Li Guiping, at home in Pingtan with his 7-month-old daughter. Mr. Li and six other Chinese were kidnapped in Iraq and then freed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (63%) Kidnapping; Foreign Labor

PERSON: Jim Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (97%); FUJIAN, CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (91%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ENGLAND (65%) Iraq; China; Fujian Province (China); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



318 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20; LETTER FROM MILWAUKEE

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Big Loser in a Polarizing, No-Holds-Barred Election Is Race Relations

BYLINE: By Monica Davey

 BODY:
Marvin Pratt, who lost his bid to become this city's first elected black mayor last week, sat on his living room couch the other day and reflected on his failure.
 Mr. Pratt said he felt let down. Let down by the news media, for what he saw as a last-minute flurry of unfair, negative coverage. Let down by his opponent, Tom Barrett, once a friend, who had splattered him with attack advertisements in the final hours, questioning his competence.
 It wasn't that Mr. Pratt and Mr. Barrett, both Democrats, differed much on the issues. But in appealing to voters in this racially divided city, the two men -- one black, one white -- were about as far apart as they could be. On election day, most black voters picked Mr. Pratt. Most white voters chose Mr. Barrett, who won handily. 
 Mr. Pratt, who has been acting mayor since January, when Mayor John O. Norquist stepped down early, leaves City Hall next week. Mr. Pratt selected his words carefully, somberly, when asked what the election might say about race relations in Milwaukee.
 ''I want to say it's getting better,'' he said. ''But it's still very polarizing.''
 Just then, his wife, Dianne, cut in, with blunter words.
 ''Racism,'' she said, ''is alive and well in Milwaukee.''
 Mr. Pratt quickly pointed out that he had never said that. Mrs. Pratt, however, pressed on: ''It's alive and well and thriving. I said it's thriving here. This is redneck America -- citified. The vote showed it.''
 Rarely has Milwaukee seen such a battle to become mayor. This city tends to keep its mayors a long time: last week's election was the first time Milwaukee chose a new mayor since 1988, and only the second time since 1960.
 Somehow this election took on a shape and symbolism bigger than one politician versus another. For many in the African-American neighborhoods on the North Side of this city, it was a chance to make history, to spread power, to open up the field of possibilities for black Milwaukeeans. But then Mr. Pratt lost. Suddenly, an election that seemed likely to heal racial divides had created new ones.
 Black voters who had begun to anticipate having a new, loud voice in city affairs now felt crushed and resentful in defeat. That perplexed many white voters, whose support for Mr. Pratt dipped after a barrage of reports about his questionable financial dealings. Those white voters said the election had nothing to do with race. But for black voters, it had everything to do with it.
 This city, Wisconsin's biggest with nearly 600,000 people, was long home mostly to people of German and Polish ancestry. Now, no single group holds the majority: 45 percent of residents are white; 38 percent are black; 12 percent are Latino, Mr. Barrett said.
 A recent Census Bureau study showed Milwaukee to be among the most segregated cities in the United States, though some here strongly dispute its methodology and point to another study that suggests that segregation is far less severe.
 ''You can argue about whether it's first or 12th or whatever, but still, this is always a more segregated town than some,'' said Eugene Kane, a columnist for The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel who is African-American and often writes about race in the city. ''Socially, it is more segregated than most communities.''
 A few months back, Mr. Pratt, who is 59 and a longtime alderman, was trailing in polls, behind another black candidate, David Clarke, a conservative and Milwaukee County's sheriff, and Mr. Barrett, 50, a former United States representative who had run for governor.
 But on primary day in February, Mr. Pratt outpaced them all. Mr. Barrett came in second. In the weeks that followed, Mr. Pratt would later complain bitterly, little good was said about him.
 The Journal Sentinel reported that Mr. Pratt was behind on his bills. Eight days before the election, the district attorney, E. Michael McCann, charged Mr. Pratt with five civil counts of breaking campaign finance rules. Mr. McCann said Mr. Pratt had failed to report some contributions and some expenditures. Mr. Barrett seized on the issue, running commercials that alluded to Mr. Pratt's troubles. One showed a storm cloud over City Hall.
 The accusations came at an awkward moment for this city. Though Wisconsin used to pride itself for squeaky clean politicking, Milwaukee's City Hall had been drenched in scandal in recent years. Three members of the Common Council, Mr. Pratt's colleagues, went to prison after convictions on federal charges of financial wrongdoing. And Mayor Norquist's departure from office had followed a sexual harassment scandal and his admission that he had had an extramarital affair.
 Mr. Pratt said he accepted responsibility for his sloppy campaign finance reports. But he insisted that they were ''mistakes, not misdeeds.'' And the Journal Sentinel's coverage, he went on, seemed one-sided, the prosecutor's timing peculiar. 
 Mr. McCann, the prosecutor, said the civil charges, which mean a $2,500 fine, were unavoidable and could have been stiffer had he placed criminal charges instead. ''Mr. Pratt received very, very fair treatment,'' he said.
 Martin Kaiser, editor of The Journal Sentinel, said the newspaper had treated Mr. Pratt as it would any candidate. ''I think our readers would expect that,'' he said.
 But on radio talk shows and online chats, Milwaukeeans reacted to the election through the prism of race. Black voters said their candidate had been torn down despite years of service. Some showed their displeasure by leaving Pratt signs up in North Side lawns after the election. Some white voters on the East and South Sides said they could neither accept Mr. Pratt's financial failings nor understand why black voters were framing the campaign in terms of race instead of competence. 
 Geographically, that gulf has long been here. Along the borders of Milwaukee's racial divide, integration is happening, though not always easily.
 In Brewers Hill, a neighborhood north of downtown that was mostly black in recent decades, construction equipment can be heard whirring from every corner. Dozens of old homes are for sale. Some gleam with new windows and fresh paint. Others are rundown, soon to be vacated. On a sign for a new complex of lofts, a scrawled message derides yuppies in vulgar, angry terms.
 The tensions here, in the view of Amy Schleif-Mohr and Douglas Mohr, boil down to economics. The Mohrs, who are white, are renovating their large Victorian on Palmer Street. Neighbors here mostly get along, they say. But when they do not -- when questions emerge about zoning rules and setback variances -- conversation can become painful. ''We've been flat-out called racists,'' Ms. Schleif-Mohr said. 
 A few blocks away, Richard Ward laughed on a recent afternoon at the suggestion that he could ever own the house and the lawn where he was spreading fertilizer. Mr. Ward, who is black, once lived down this block, he said, but his rent rose and he moved. Now he works for people here.
 Mr. Ward said he had no doubts about what happened to Mr. Pratt last week. ''I'm sorry to admit this, but it was about race,'' he said. ''They were trying to put dirt on him. I think it stinks.''
 As he organizes his staff and prepares to become mayor, Mr. Barrett said he recognized the damage this election had done. He once represented much of the predominantly black North Side in Congress and had long received support from black politicians, including Mr. Pratt. His voice had a bittersweet edge.
 ''I know that I have work to do,'' Mr. Barrett said. ''I know that there's a lot of frustration and anger toward a number of actors in this -- whether it's the media, the district attorney, whether it's me. I have to be concerned about healing this city.
 ''It's my hope that what we're experiencing here are growing pains with the city coming to grips with the fact that it's a multicultural, multiracial city.''
 Mr. Barrett said he hoped to meet with Mr. Pratt soon. He said he hoped that progress might come from so much angst. At least now, he said, the city is talking about race, not ignoring it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor-elect Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, left, last February after his primary victory. He went on to defeat Marvin Pratt, shown hugging his daughter, Andrea, on election day last week. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Black And White Divide''Voting patterns in Milwaukee's mayoral election show a sharp racial split.Maps of Milwaukee highlighting the percentage of black voters and percentage voting for Marvin Pratt. Maps also show wards won by Tom Barrett(Results shown by election wards)(Source by City of Milwaukee Board of Election Commissioners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); CITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%) 

PERSON: Marvin (Acting Mayor) Pratt; Tom Barrett; Monica Davey

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (95%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Milwaukee (Wis); Milwaukee (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



319 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Republicans In Virginia Help Advance Tax Increase

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13 

 BODY:
Defying their party's strongly antitax leadership, a group of Republicans joined the Democratic minority in the Virginia House of Delegates on Tuesday to approve a $748 million tax increase over two years.
 The vote makes it likely that the legislature will approve some tax increases as part of a budget, though the final shape of the package must still be hammered out with the Senate, which, like the House, is controlled by Republicans. The Senate has called for raising taxes by more than $4 billion over two years. 
 Republican House leaders warned that if the Senate made significant revisions to the tax measure it could cause a new budget impasse with the House. 
 The vote also represents a victory for Gov. Mark Warner, a Democrat who kicked off the tax debate last year by calling for a sweeping overhaul of the state's tax code to close projected budget shortfalls. Mr. Warner had proposed raising taxes by $1 billion over two years.
 Though the House measure approved on Tuesday did not meet either Mr. Warner's or the Senate Republicans' goals for tax increases, Mr. Warner called it ''a major step'' because House Republican leaders, as well as powerful state Republican officials, had adamantly opposed any tax increases.
 ''It doesn't get us all the way, but it is a major step,'' Mr. Warner said in an interview. ''I don't want to underestimate it at all. There were a number of legislators who took a brave and courageous vote today. They put aside partisan politics and stepped up for Virginia.'' 
 Seventeen Republicans in the House joined 36 Democrats in supporting the tax bill, while 44 Republicans and one Democrat voted against it. Two delegates were absent.
 The measure calls for raising the sales tax by half a penny, to a nickel, and the cigarette tax to 30 cents a pack from 2.5 cents by 2005. It would phase out special tax deductions for the elderly and close some business tax exemptions. It would also cut some taxes, including on food and estates. But it does not increase income taxes on the wealthy, as Mr. Warner and the Senate Republican leadership had proposed.
 Some of the state's most powerful Republicans, including the United States senator George Allen, sharply criticized the vote, saying it would stunt the state's economic recovery and was a betrayal of voters who had been promised no new taxes in recent elections. 
 ''Increasing taxes on Virginians by close to three quarters of a billion dollars is not the way to create new jobs and help our economy grow,'' Senator Allen said in a statement. 
 Though many states are facing budget shortfalls this year, Virginia is one of a few that are considering raising broad-based taxes, like on sales or income. Virginia's move toward higher taxes is particularly remarkable because Republicans control both houses of its legislature. 
 Tuesday's vote brings the legislature a major step closer to ending a budget impasse that has caused the legislature to extend its session nearly a month beyond its scheduled adjournment. 
 Some Republicans said they were inundated with phone calls, faxes and e-mail messages urging them to accept tax increases to end the stalemate.
 ''If it took tax increases to furnish what the citizens need in the budget, they were willing to do it,'' said Delegate Harry J. Parrish, a Republican from Manassas, who voted for the measure.
 There were furious closed-door negotiations throughout the day, as House Republicans who supported the measure sought assurances that Mr. Warner and Senate Republican leaders would not try to amend the measure significantly. It was not clear they got those assurances.
 The Senate Finance Committee is scheduled to take up the House measure on Wednesday morning. 
 Mr. Warner and the Senate Republican leadership have called for raising sales, cigarette and income taxes not only to close a projected $1.2 billion shortfall over the next two years, but also to increase spending on education, prisons and health care. Mr. Warner has also asserted that the state could lose its coveted triple-A bond rating from Moody's Investor Service if it does not increase revenues. 
 But the Republicans who control the House have argued that modest budget trimming combined with a strengthening economy would close the projected shortfalls without tax increases. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX REFORM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); JOB CREATION (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%) 

PERSON: MARK WARNER (79%) Mark R (Gov) Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



320 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. May Back Israel Right To Keep Some Settlements
President Bush is planning to issue a declaration during Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's visit to the White House today that aides say will recognize Israel's right to retain some Jewish settlements in the West Bank when its future boundaries are negotiated with the Palestinians. The declaration would represent a subtle but substantial shift in policy. A1

U.S. Pressure on Iraqi Cleric
A 2,500-strong American force backed by tanks and artillery took up positions outside Najaf as a rebel Shiite cleric, Moktada al-Sadr, resisted demands from the American occupation authority and fellow Shiite clerics that he disband a militia that has challenged American authority. A10

President Bush is expected to name John D. Negroponte, a veteran diplomat and current representative to the United Nations, as ambassador to Iraq when sovereignty is transferred to a government in Baghdad on June 30, administration officials said. A11

Jewish Sites in Spain Targeted
Terrorists believed responsible for the Madrid train bombings last month also considered attacks on a Jewish community center and cemetery outside Madrid, a senior Spanish investigator said. A6

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Bonds Surpasses Willie Mays
Barry Bonds hit his 661st home run on a 1-2 pitch from the Milwaukee right-hander Ben Ford, taking sole possession of third place on baseball's career home run list. D1

New Coach at St. John's
Norm Roberts, an assistant coach at Kansas, was hired as head coach of the Red Storm, the university's president said. D1

NATIONAL A20-25

Bush Speaks on Iraq; Reaffirms Plan for Peace
President Bush reaffirmed his plan to transfer sovereignty in Iraq back to Iraqis on June 30 and said the consequences of failing to follow through on his commitment to bring stability to that nation were unthinkable. A1

Panel Cites F.B.I. Missteps
The F.B.I. came under withering attack by the independent commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks. Its chairman described staff reports on the bureau's performance before and after the attacks as an ''indictment of the F.B.I.'' A1

Attorney General John Ashcroft told the commission that a legal barrier in the government preventing intelligence investigators from sharing information with criminal investigators, was an impediment to preventing the terror attacks. A19

Bush Releases Tax Return
President Bush and his wife saved about $31,000 as a result of the tax cuts he championed, but Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife lost nearly all of their tax cuts to another levy. A22

Kerry Reaches Out to Students
Senator John Kerry railed against apathy and tried to get young people excited about politics and public service at a town-hall meeting of college students in Providence, R.I. A22

Virginia Approves Tax Increase
A group of Republicans defied their party's strongly anti-tax leadership and joined the Democratic minority in the Virginia House of Delegates to approve a $748 million tax increase. A24

SCIENCE/HEALTH 

Cancer Differs Among Sexes
Women with lung cancer survive slightly longer than men with the disease, respond differently to a cancer drug and show higher levels of tobacco-induced genetic damage in their lungs, researchers reported. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Secret Service Employee Is Accused of Car Theft
Several United States Secret Service cars listed as ''crushed'' on Sept. 11, 2001, were actually stolen by the head of the agency's motor pool at 7 World Trade Center, prosecutors said. Hundreds of cars were destroyed when the World Trade Center collapsed. B1

Smuggling Network Unveiled
Customs officials say 134 illegal immigrants detained at the Newark airport had been smuggled from Mexico by a network of violent smuggling operations in the Southwest. B5

Shortfall in Pension Funds
Private hospitals in New York City have fallen more than $100 million behind on payments to employee benefit and pension funds in recent years, deepening the hospitals' money woes and threatening thousands of workers with the loss of health insurance and other benefits. B1

DINING OUT F1-12

EDUCATION B11

Tension in the Schools
Mayor Bloomberg's plan to start dozens of new small schools within the buildings of larger host schools, each with its own culture, philosophy about discipline, private financing and dress code, will create tension between the haves and the have-nots, critics say. A1

OBITUARIES C15

ARTS E1-10

Ceremony for Spalding Gray
The actor Spalding Gray, whose body was found in the East River on March 8, was remembered in a ceremony at Lincoln Center. C15

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Hearing on AIDS Drug Costs
AIDS activists and consumer advocates plan to argue in a federal hearing that the government should begin allowing the import of cheaper drugs. Controversy had mounted over Abbott Laboratories' recent decision to quintuple the price of its AIDS drug Norvir. A1

Inflation Pressure in China
Beijing announced that bank lending climbed briskly in March and the central bank failed to sell all the treasury bills offered at current interest rates, another sign of inflationary pressure in China. C1

Ruling Bars Naming of Jurors
The judge presiding over the retrial of Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston, ordered the news media not to report the names of jurors or potential jurors. C1

Intel's Profits on Rise
Intel, the world's largest chip maker, reported that its profits rose 89 percent over the first quarter a year ago on the strength of increased demand for new computers. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Mr. Bush's press conference; the failed F.B.I.; Central Europe's new demagogues.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); BASEBALL (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); TAX LAW (63%); INDICTMENTS (60%); BONDS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



321 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Cruel Choices

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I can't get the kaleidoscope of genocide out of my head since my trip last month to the Sudan-Chad border: the fresh graves, especially the extra-small mounds for children; the piles of branches on graves to keep wild animals from digging up corpses; the tales of women being first raped and then branded on the hand to stigmatize them forever; the isolated peasants, unfamiliar with electricity, who suddenly encounter the 21st century as helicopters machine-gun their children.
 Then there were the choices faced by the Sudanese refugees I interviewed. For example, who should fetch water from the wells?
 The Arab Janjaweed militia, armed by Sudan's government, shoots tribal African men and teenage boys who show up at the wells, and rapes women who go. So parents described an anguished choice: Should they risk their 7- or 8-year-old children by sending them to wells a mile away, knowing that the children have the best prospect of returning? 
 And what should parents do when the Janjaweed seize their children, or gang-rape their daughters? Should they resist, knowing they will then be shot at once in front of their children?
 Or what about the parents described by Human Rights Watch who were allowed by the militia to choose how their children would die: burned alive or shot to death?
 Some 1,000 people in Sudan's Darfur region are still dying each week. But at least the world has finally begun to pay attention -- and it's striking how a hint of concern in the West has persuaded Sudan to reach a cease-fire there.
 President Bush finally found his voice last week, protesting the ''atrocities'' in Darfur. More forcefully, Kofi Annan warned on the day commemorating the Rwandan genocide that reports about brutalities in Darfur ''leave me with a deep sense of foreboding. . . . The international community cannot stand idle.''
 So far in Darfur, thousands have been killed, and about one million black Africans have been driven from their homes by the lighter-skinned Arabs in the Janjaweed. Vast sections of Darfur, a region the size of France, have been burned and emptied. The Janjaweed have also destroyed wells, or fouled them by dumping corpses into them, to keep villagers from ever returning.
 ''You can drive for 100 kilometers and see nobody, no civilian,'' said Dr. Mercedes Tatay, a physician with Doctors Without Borders who has just spent a month in Darfur. ''You pass through large villages, completely burned or still burning, and you see nobody.''
 In the refugee camps in Darfur, malnutrition and measles are claiming the survivors, especially young children. Roger Winter, assistant administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, estimates that even if the fighting stops today, at least 100,000 are still likely to die in coming months -- of disease, malnutrition and other ailments. Yet Sudan is still curbing access to Darfur by the U.N. and aid groups.
 I'm not suggesting an invasion of Sudan. But it's a fallacy to think that just because we can't do everything to stop genocide, we shouldn't do anything. One of the lessons of the last week is how little it took -- from Washington, the U.N. and the African Union -- to nudge Sudan into accepting a cease-fire and pledging access for humanitarian workers.
 Now we need more arm-twisting to get Sudan to comply with the cease-fire (it marked the first day, Monday, by bombing the town of Anka). The Sudanese government is testing us, but so far the State Department has shown a commendable willingness to stand up to it.
 We can save many tens of thousands of lives in the coming weeks -- but only if Mr. Bush and Mr. Annan speak out more boldly, if the U.N. Security Council insists on humanitarian access to Darfur and if the aid community mounts a huge effort before the rainy season makes roads impassible beginning in late May.
 In the last 100 years, the United States has reacted to one genocide after another -- Armenians, Jews, Cambodians, Bosnians -- by making excuses at the time, and then saying, too late, ''Oh, if only we had known!'' Well, this time we know what is happening in Darfur: 110,000 refugees have escaped into Chad and testify to the atrocities.
 How many more parents will be forced to choose whether their children are shot or burned to death before we get serious? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); SHOOTINGS (75%); MEN (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (70%); BURN INJURIES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); MALNUTRITION (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (60%); HELICOPTERS (56%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); CHAD (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Sudan

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



322 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: In China, Troubling Signs Of an Overheating Economy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 13 

 BODY:
More worrisome signs of inflationary pressure emerged in China on Tuesday, as Beijing announced that bank lending climbed briskly in March and the central bank failed to sell all the treasury bills offered at current interest rates. 
 It was the fourth consecutive week that the People's Bank of China was unable to sell all its bills, indicating that investors expect inflation or interest rates -- or both -- to rise markedly. 
 On Tuesday, Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of China's central bank, gave one of the grimmest assessments yet by a Chinese official of the risks that the economy might overheat. 
 ''There are problems in economic activity, with investment demand expanding too fast, money and credit growing too quickly, and inflationary pressures rising,'' he said in a statement published in The Financial News, the bank's newspaper. 
 China's inflation is important to the United States and Europe because it could start to affect prices in the United States, especially as China bids up the price of oil and other commodities. And if the boom here is followed by a bust, a result would very likely be an even greater wave of exports as China's consumers lose their buying power.
 Private economists differ on the likelihood that China will be able to brake its economy gently to a more sustainable pace. The question is whether China can avoid a recession that would cause a wave of corporate failures, overdue loans at banks and perhaps social unrest.
 Some economists are quite worried.
 ''Going around China, it looks like a bubble to me,'' said John Makin, a longtime monetary policy expert at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington who just returned from a trip to six Chinese cities at the invitation of the Communist Party's elite Central Party School.
 The biggest monetary policy challenge facing China is the flood of foreign cash, both foreign direct investment and speculation, that is washing in. It is being converted into yuan, pumping up the money supply and allowing China's banks to lend more and more.
 The official New China News Agency said on Tuesday that new figures from the Commerce Ministry showed that actual foreign investments rose 7.5 percent in March compared with a year earlier. Contracts for future foreign investments, an indicator of how much money may be entering China in the coming months, increased by 49.2 percent.
 Interest rates have already jumped more than half a percentage point just this week for seven-day interbank loans, climbing to 2.48 percent late Monday, and even higher on Tuesday. Rates have climbed even faster for some bonds.
 The central bank cut the volume of bills that it tried to sell this week by three-fifths compared with last week. But the bank was able to sell less than half of them as investors rejected the low interest rates that the bills carry at a time when unregulated rates are rising quickly.
 The People's Bank of China insisted on paying the same low interest rates as last week -- 2.14 percent for the three-month bills and 2.82 percent for one-year notes -- and refused to entertain low-ball bids that would allow interest rates for these bills to rise.
 Liang Hong, a Goldman Sachs economist here, said she still believed that China could bring its swift economic expansion under control. But monetary officials have not done enough yet, she said: China needs to let its currency appreciate against the dollar and then raise interest rates. 
 ''They are behind the curve,'' Ms. Liang said. ''We would like to see them raise interest rates, but we would like to see them move on the currency first.''
 Ms. Liang pointed out that the central bank sold only $1 billion worth of treasury bills this week, but had to pay off almost $2 billion worth of bills coming due. So the net effect of the central bank's actions was to expand the money supply by nearly another $1 billion, she said.
 Currency appreciation and higher interest rates are the traditional Western remedies for an overheated economy. Allowing the currency to appreciate cools exports by making them less competitive in foreign markets. Higher interest rates force companies and consumers to spend more money servicing their debts (and may bankrupt some), leaving less money for investment and consumption.
 But there is no consensus among economists inside China or out about whether these remedies will work in China's peculiar combination of bare-knuckle capitalism in many industries and economic planning in others. Currency appreciation, for example, might prompt speculators to put even more money into China as a bet on further appreciation. 
 To make matters worse, China's banks are widely described as corrupt and vulnerable to political pressures to lend money to well-connected borrowers who are unlikely to repay their debts. Borrowers who do not expect to have to repay loans, or who have access to more loans regardless of their creditworthiness, may go on borrowing and spending even if interest rates increase. 
 Credit agencies estimate that banks in China are unable to collect timely payments of interest and principal on more than 40 percent of their loans. Chinese officials are wary lest the loans are not repaid, which could further undermine the stability of the banks. 
 The Financial News said on Tuesday that the broad M2 measure of money supply was 19.2 percent higher than a year earlier. With banks awash with yuan from the large conversions of foreign exchange into local currency, total loans were up 20.7 percent from a year ago.
 ''The excessive size of M2 shows financing of China's economic development has relied too much on the banking system, and the concentration of risk is too high,'' Mr. Zhou warned in his statement on Tuesday.
 The growth in money supply and domestic credit continued the breakneck expansion these economic indicators showed in the winter, although the money supply is rising somewhat less briskly that it was last summer, when the People's Bank of China began to try to slow both down. The March figures are especially important because Chinese New Year holidays distorted the January and February data.
 Stocks in China have been less affected than bonds by inflation and interest rate worries. The Shanghai composite index dropped half a percent on Tuesday, after falling 0.3 percent on Monday, while the Shenzhen composite index lost 0.6 percent on Tuesday after rising 0.1 percent on Monday.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The surging Chinese economy in recent years has left little time for the dust to settle at a cement plant about 40 miles east of Beijing. But that may be changing. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C1)
 The economic boom has brought car ownership to more and more Chinese consumers, but with the wealth have come increasingly heavy pollution and traffic jams, at least in large cities like Beijing. (Photo by EPA)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; United States International Relations

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Bank of China; European Union

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Zhou Xiaochuan

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) China; Europe; China

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



323 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: Into and Out of Trouble in Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Nasty, Brutish and Short'' (column, April 11):
 For months, I have been having occasional imaginary conversations with Thomas L. Friedman about his optimism on Iraq. 
 I am a big-time Tom Friedman fan, but Tom, you should have seen this one coming: a tribal culture, no real economy, high unemployment, no history of trust among ethnic groups. This ain't our reasonable Midwest.

VICTOR CAMILLO
Iowa City, April 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHNICITY (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (83%); ETHNIC GROUPS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (50%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



324 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts Helped President But Far Less So the Cheneys

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
President Bush and his wife saved about $31,000 as a result of the tax cuts he championed, according to documents the White House released yesterday, but Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife lost nearly all of their Bush tax cuts to another levy that will soon take away part or all of the cuts from 35 million households.
 Mr. Bush and Laura Bush made only parts of their 2003 tax return available, breaking with a tradition of full disclosure begun by President Jimmy Carter that Mr. Bush followed until last year. The Cheneys made their Form 1040 public, and the full tax return was given to various news organizations that requested it, including The New York Times. 
 Senator John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic Party nominee, made available only his own tax return, which he files separately from his wife, the food industry heiress Teresa Heinz Kerry.
 The Bushes paid 27.7 percent of their adjusted gross income in federal income taxes. The Cheneys, whose income was much larger, paid 19 percent of their adjusted gross income, though when their income from tax-exempt bonds is considered, the Cheneys' effective tax rate was 12.7 percent.
 That difference shows how the Bush tax cuts, as well as changes made during the Clinton years, can make those who earn more pay a smaller share of their income in taxes than those who earn less.
 The Bushes reported an adjusted gross income of $822,126, on which they paid tax of $227,490. Without the tax cuts Mr. Bush sponsored, they would have paid $30,858 more and their effective tax rate would have been about 31.4 percent, two analyses showed.
 Their income consisted almost entirely of his $397,264 salary as president and $401,803 in taxable interest, primarily on federal government bonds and notes. Among the documents withheld by the White House were Schedule A, which itemizes most deductions, and Schedules D and E, which cover investment gains and losses.
 The vice president and his wife, Lynne, reported $1,267,915 of adjusted gross income and paid United States income tax of $241,392. They also paid $6,977 to foreign governments because of investment income abroad.
 Mr. Cheney earned $198,600 as vice president and received $178,437 in deferred compensation under a five-year payout from Halliburton, where he was chief executive until he quit to run for office in 2000.
 The Cheneys reported $137,644 in dividends, of which $84,132 qualified for the new 15 percent tax rate, saving them $20,696 compared with the 39.6 percent rate that was in effect before the Bush tax cuts. 
 The Cheneys also received $627,005 in interest on municipal bonds that was exempt from tax, which boosted their total income to $1,894,920 and lowered their effective tax rate to 12.7 percent.
 Under the regular income tax, the Cheneys would have paid $194,194, a $36,623 reduction due to the Bush tax cuts.
 But the Cheneys were forced into the alternative minimum tax system, which the Treasury Department has estimated will take away part or all of the Bush tax cuts from 35 million households within the next few years. The alternative tax was created in 1969 to stop high earners from avoiding taxes with large deductions and tax shelters, but about 300 such households still pay nothing. And because the alternative tax rules have not been fully adjusted for changes in the economy, the interaction of the Bush cuts and the alternative tax can cause middle-class Americans to lose exemptions for themselves and their children, deductions for state and local taxes or even the standard deduction.
 Families with two or more children will be affected by the alternative tax at about 30 times the rate of singles and childless couples, a study by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in Washington found. 
 The Cheneys paid $47,198 in alternative minimum tax -- more than double the amount they would have paid before the Bush tax cuts. The tax rules removed exemptions from some of their interest income and cost them a chunk of their miscellaneous tax deductions, according to calculations yesterday by Citizens for Tax Justice, which contends that the tax system favors the rich, and by The New York Times.
 Generosity helped account for the Cheneys' relatively low tax rate. The Cheneys donated $321,141 to charity, mostly royalties from Mrs. Cheney's books. The Bushes gave $68,360 to charity.
 The average household making $100,000, a sum that the Cheneys earned every 20 days, paid a higher share of their income in taxes -- 15.2 percent -- than the Cheneys did, according to the latest analysis of tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service. The data is from 2001, when most of the tax cuts affecting the middle class were already in place. The big cuts for high-end earners took effect last year.
 Mr. Kerry, who revealed nothing of his wife's income and taxes, reported an adjusted gross income of $395,338, consisting mostly of his Senate salary, $145,000 of capital gains and $89,000 of book royalties. He paid tax of $90,575, or 22.9 percent, compared with an average of 26.1 percent for his income group in 2001.
 Mr. Kerry paid taxes on royalties from his book ''A Call to Service: My Vision for a Better America'' and is donating the balance to charity, his aides said. His charitable deductions last year were $43,735. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BONDS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; Laura Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Lynne Cheney; John (Sen) Kerry; Teresa Heinz Kerry; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004



325 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Are Looking at a Long, Hot Summer

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
The airline industry is beginning to see what was supposed to be a promising year slip away, because of rising fuel costs, brutal competition -- especially on cross-country routes -- and its own lingering financial headaches.
 While no one is predicting this summer will be as bad operationally as the infamous ''summer from hell'' in 2000, when one of four flights was delayed, canceled or diverted, there are fears that a difficult season lies ahead.
 ''In the past, a good summer could have paved its way to a break-even year; this summer, it probably won't,'' said Darin Lee, senior managing economist with LECG, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
 Problems are already appearing. Yesterday, Delta Air Lines said it lost $387 million in the first quarter, kicking off what analysts fear will be a string of poor quarterly results for major airlines. 
 Some industry analysts say first-quarter losses could reach $1 billion or more for the carriers, even though traffic is rebounding to levels last seen before the September 2001 terrorist attacks.
 Delta's loss, though an improvement from its $466 million shortfall in the quarter last year, came as its cash dropped by $500 million in the quarter, to $2.2 billion. The performance was labeled ''clearly unsustainable'' by its chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, who took charge of the airline this year.
 Speaking to analysts and reporters, Mr. Grinstein repeatedly pushed for concessions from Delta's pilots, whom he called the ''major boulder'' blocking competitiveness. 
 Delta is trying to win a 30 percent reduction in pay and benefits from its pilots, who have said they are willing to take a 9 percent cut and give up a wage increase scheduled for next month. But the pilots, whose contract expires in 2005, are not required to open negotiations before August. Yesterday, the pilots union said the company's bargaining stance did not lend itself to an early deal.
 Even if that happens, the airline may not get everything it is seeking, said Philip A. Baggaley, an airline industry analyst with Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, which downgraded Delta's debt last month.
 And little improvement is expected soon. While Mr. Grinstein has started a top-to-bottom strategic review, he said yesterday that Delta did not expect to present a restructuring plan to its board before late summer.
 Already, Delta and its competitors have been significantly affected by soaring prices for jet fuel. According to the Air Transport Association, the industry's trade group, each 1-cent increase in the price of fuel, now over $1 a gallon, costs the industry $180 million. 
 Higher fuel prices are a reason that Continental Airlines is pulling back on its forecast of a break-even year. Like other major airlines, with the exception of Southwest Airlines, Continental did not hedge enough against higher fuel prices last year. Continental and its rivals tried several times this winter to raise ticket prices, only to rescind the increases when low-fare rivals refused to go along.
 ''In this particular pricing environment, any of these costs we have not been able to pass on to the customer,'' Jeffrey J. Misner, Continental's chief financial officer, said. ''Nothing sticks.''
 Given that reality, airlines might be expected to rein in their operations, conserving fuel where they can by scheduling fewer flights and packing planes more fully. But the opposite is happening. 
 In recent weeks, airlines have expanded their summer schedules, both domestically and internationally, hoping to lure vacationers. 
 Nowhere is the battle for customers more intense than on transcontinental routes, long the purview of major airlines, which charged high prices and catered to customers willing to pay for legroom and luxury.
 But over the last year, low-fare airlines, including Southwest, JetBlue, America West and Frontier, have invaded the transcontinental market, with a visible impact on their operations.
 The average flight at JetBlue in the first quarter was nearly 1,300 miles, according to BACK Aviation, an industry consulting firm. Even Southwest, known for its short trips, has seen its average flight length climb 50 percent the past decade to about 600 miles, as it added trips between cities like Baltimore and Los Angeles.
 That is prompting the big airlines to fire back with fare wars, frequent-flier offers and extra flights of their own. As soon as JetBlue announced last month that it was introducing service between Sacramento and Washington Dulles airport, United reinstated the route after dropping it.
 United, which is in bankruptcy protection, also introduced a frequent-flier special this week, with double miles from selected cities to San Francisco and Los Angeles. Not to be outdone, Delta has an extra-miles deal for connecting flights through Dallas-Fort Worth, which is American's home base. American is a unit of AMR. 
 Yet such offers only divert attention from the fact that customers are primarily interested in low prices, said Jan K. Brueckner, professor of economics at the University of Illinois. 
 ''There is hardly a more competitive industry out there,'' Professor Brueckner said. ''There are fares that change on a minute-to-minute basis. You throw into the mix the low-cost guys and it's not going to be possible for them to make much money.'' 
 With such a season on the horizon, the Federal Aviation Administration last month announced a plan to ward off summer delays. It calls for planes heading to congested airports to be held briefly on the ground, so that delays can be cleared before more traffic builds.
 Looming over all of the bad earnings news and passenger battles are security scares, which have lately been pushed to the background as the industry sorts through more immediate problems like fuel prices. That burden alone could guarantee another year of red ink or worse, according to Mr. Misner of Continental. 
 US Airways, which emerged from bankruptcy last year only to encounter financial problems, has started a drive to slash its costs, while United, a unit of UAL, has yet to finalize its restructuring plan.
 ''There are a number of carriers that are teetering on the edge, and this is one those things that could put them into bankruptcy or extinction,'' Mr. Misner said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: According to the Air Transport Association, each 1-cent increase in the price of fuel, now over $1 a gallon, costs the industry $180 million. Continental has scaled back its earnings forecast, in part because of higher fuel costs. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 Delta said it lost $387 million in the quarter, and some analysts say industry losses could reach $1 billion. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C7)Graph: ''Troubling Trends''The airline industry is adding capacity at a time when costs are rising. That could further weaken an industry that has yet to recover from its recent problems.Graphs track available seat miles and net income since 2000. (Source by Department of Transportation and Official Airline Guide via Eclat Consulting) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); JET FUEL (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (65%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines; Continental Airlines; Air Transport Assn

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard; Gerald Grinstein

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



326 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Will the Opposition Lead?

BYLINE: By Paul Berman. 
Paul Berman is the author of ''Terror and Liberalism.''

 BODY:
The war in Iraq may end up going well or catastrophically, but either way, this war has always been central to the broader war on terror. That is because terror has never been a matter of a few hundred crazies who could be rounded up by the police and special forces. Terror grows out of something larger -- an enormous wave of political extremism.
 The wave began to swell some 25 years ago and by now has swept across a big swath of the Muslim world. The wave is not a single thing. It consists of several movements or currents, which are entirely recognizable. These movements draw on four tenets: a belief in a paranoid conspiracy theory, according to which cosmically evil Jews, Masons, Crusaders and Westerners are plotting to annihilate Islam or subjugate the Arab people; a belief in the need to wage apocalyptic war against the cosmic conspiracy; an expectation that, post-apocalypse, the Islamic caliphate of ancient times will re-emerge as a utopian new society; and a belief that, meanwhile, death is good, and should be loved and revered. 
 A quarter century ago, some of the extremist movements pictured the coming utopia in a somewhat secular light, and others in a theocratic light. These differences, plus a few other quarrels, led to hatred and even war, like the one between Iran and Iraq. The visible rivalries left an impression in some people's minds that nothing tied together these sundry movements. 
 American foreign policy acted on that impression, and tried to play the movements against one another, and backed every non-apocalyptic dictator who promised to keep the extremists under control. The American policy was cynical and cruel. It did nothing to prevent those sundry movements and dictators from committing murders on a gigantic scale. 
 Nor did the policy produce anything good for America, in the long run. For the sundry movements did share a common outlook, which ought to have been obvious all along -- the paranoid and apocalyptic outlook of European fascism from long ago, draped in Muslim robes. These movements added up to a new kind of modern totalitarianism. And, in time, the new totalitarianism found its common point, on which everyone could agree. This was the shared project of building the human bomb. The Shiite theocrats of Iran pioneered the notion of suicide terror. And everyone else took it up: Sunni theocrats, Baathist anti-theocrats of Iraq and Syria, the more radical Palestinian nationalists, and others, too. 
 The Sept. 11 attacks came from a relatively small organization. But Al Qaeda was a kind of foam thrown up by the larger extremist wave. The police and special forces were never going to be able to stamp out the Qaeda cells so long as millions of people around the world accepted the paranoid and apocalyptic views and revered suicide terror. The only long-term hope for tamping down the terrorist impulse was to turn America's traditional policies upside down, and come out for once in favor of the liberal democrats of the Muslim world. This would mean promoting a counter-wave of liberal and rational ideas to combat the allure of paranoia and apocalypse.
 Some people argue that anti-totalitarian revolutions can never be brought about from outside. The history of World War II says otherwise. Some people respond with the observation that Germany, Italy and Japan are nothing like the Muslim world. In Afghanistan, the American-led invasion has nonetheless brought about an anti-totalitarian revolution. A pretty feeble revolution, true -- but even feeble progress suggests large possibilities. 
 The whole point in overthrowing Saddam Hussein, from my perspective, was to achieve those large possibilities right in the center of the Muslim world, where the ripples might lead in every direction. Iraq was a logical place to begin because, for a dozen years, the Baathists had been shooting at American and British planes, and inciting paranoia and hatred against the United States, and encouraging the idea that attacks can successfully be launched against American targets, and giving that idea some extra oomph with the bluff about fearsome weapons. The Baathists, in short, contributed their bit to the atmosphere that led to Sept. 11. Yet Iraq could also boast of liberal democrats and some admirable achievements in the Kurdish north, which meant there were people to support, and not just to oppose. Such were the hopes. 
 As for the results -- well, in one respect, these have turned out to be, in spite of everything, almost comically successful. Baathism's super-weapons may have been a figment of the universal imagination; but as soon as the United States elevated this figment into a world crisis, astonishing progress was made in tracking down weapons programs and trafficking in Libya, Iran, Dubai and Pakistan. Some people will go on insisting that sudden progress on these matters has nothing to do with Iraq, and the dominoes tumbled simultaneously by sheer coincidence -- but some people will believe anything.
 Nobody can doubt, however, that even in its planning stages, the invasion and occupation of Iraq were depressingly bungled. The whole thing was done in an odd mood of hysteria and parsimony, a bad combination. It is tempting to conclude that, all in all, we would have been better off staying out of Iraq altogether -- and maybe this will turn out to be the case. 
 But everyone who feels drawn to that conclusion had better acknowledge its full meaning: the unavoidable implication that we would be better off today with Saddam Hussein in power; better off with economic sanctions still strangling the Iraqi people; better off with American army bases still occupying Saudi soil (Osama bin Laden's original grievance against us); and better off without the progress on weapons proliferation in the Muslim world (unless you believe in the sheer-coincidence theory, in which case, you think that progress would have happened willy-nilly). That is a pretty horrifying set of alternatives. 
 Now we need allies -- people who will actually do things, and not just offer benedictions from afar. Unfortunately -- how many misfortunes can fall upon our heads at once? -- finding allies may not be easy. Entire populations around the world feel a personal dislike for America's president, which makes it difficult for even the friendliest of political leaders in some countries to take pro-American positions.
 But the bigger problem has to do with public understandings of the war. People around the world may not want to lift a finger in aid so long as the anti-totalitarian logic of the war remains invisible to them. President Bush ought to have cleared up this matter. He has, in fact, spoken about conspiracy theories and hatred (including at Tuesday's press conference). He has spoken about a new totalitarianism, and has even raised the notion of a war of ideas.
 But Mr. Bush muddied these issues long ago by putting too much emphasis on weapons in Iraq (and his gleeful opponents have muddied things even further by pretending that weapons were the only reason for war). He muddied the issues again by doing relatively little to promote a war of ideas -- quite as if his loftier comments were merely blather. His national security statement of 2002 flatly declared that totalitarianism no longer existed -- a strange thing to say. War requires clarity. Here is incoherence. 
 Somebody else will have to straighten out these confusions, then. I think it will have to be the Democrats -- at least those Democrats who accept the anti-totalitarian logic. And why shouldn't they show a bit of leadership? After the Spanish election last month, America needed to reach out to the new Spanish leader, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, and his voters. Mr. Bush was in no position to do this, given that in November he had delivered a speech that was all-too characteristically insulting to the European left. Instead, it was Senator John Kerry who made a public appeal to Mr. Zapatero to keep troops in Iraq.
 I wish the Democrats would follow Mr. Kerry's example and take it a step further by putting together a small contingent of Democrats with international reputations, a kind of shadow government -- not to undermine American policy but to achieve what Mr. Bush seems unable to do. The Democrats ought to explain the dangers of modern totalitarianism and the goals of the war. They ought to make the call for patience and sacrifice that Mr. Bush has steadfastly avoided. And the Democratic contingent ought to go around the world making that case. 
 The Democrats ought to thank and congratulate the countries that have sent troops, and ought to remind the economically powerful Switzerlands of this world that they, too, have responsibilities. The Democrats ought to assure everyone that support for a successful outcome in Iraq does not have to mean support for George W. Bush. And how should the Democrats make these several arguments? They should speak about something more than the United Nations and stability in Iraq. They should talk about fascism. About death cults. About the experiences of the 20th century. About the need for democratic solidarity.
 This is not a project for after the election -- this is a project for right now. America needs allies. Today, and not just tomorrow. And America needs leaders. If the Bush administration cannot rally support around the world, let other people give it a try.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by D. B. Dowd) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%) 

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Paul Berman; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



327 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Rise in Consumer Prices Stokes Inflation Fears
Consumer prices jumped much more sharply than expected in March, driven by increases for gasoline and clothing and reawakening worries about a return to higher inflation and higher interest rates.
 The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose 0.5 percent for March, which would translate to an annual inflation rate of more than 6 percent if it were sustained. The inflation rate for all of 2003 was only 1.9 percent. [Page A1.]

The trade deficit fell $1.4 billion in February, spurred by a weak dollar and foreign demand for American products. [C4.]

Post-Election Medicare Cuts Feared
Some analysts are worried that companies most affected by new Medicare legislation may suffer from efforts to trim spending in the program. Market Place. [C10.]

Take-Two Chief Executive Resigns
Take-Two Interactive Software, the maker of the hit video game franchise Grand Theft Auto, announced the resignation of Jeffrey A. Lapin, its chief executive. [C6.]

Bank of America Profit Rises
The Bank of America Corporation said its quarterly profit rose 11 percent amid an increase in consumer lending. [C14.]

Apple Computer said that its quarterly profit nearly tripled. [C6.]

Market Maker Suspends 4 Traders
Van der Moolen Holding, a market maker on the New York Stock Exchange, said it had suspended four traders after settling accusations that it violated trading rules. [C10.]

Radio Network Dropped in 2 Cities
Air America Radio, the liberal talk network, was dropped by stations in Los Angeles and Chicago because of a contract dispute. [C2.]

Google Plans New Ad Options
Google plans to start offering companies the option of local advertising limited to Internet users in select regions. [C6.]

Jim Beam Begins Ad Campaign
Jim Beam, the bourbon and whiskey maker, is introducing the first advertising campaign from its new agency, the Chicago office of BBDO Worldwide. Advertising. [C9.]

A Cross-Border Battle of Unions
Competition between American states and Canadian provinces for auto jobs is heightening discord between the unions that represent workers on each side of the border. Buzz Hargrove, president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, questioned a decision by the United Auto Workers to set up an office at a Honda plant near Toronto as part of a recruiting drive. [World Business, Section W.]

Major Stock Indicators Dip Slightly
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 3.33 points, to 10,377.95. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 5.23 points, to 2,024.85. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.27 points, at 1,128.17. [C10.]

Charity Requests Asset Transfer
The Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development, one of three charities whose assets have been frozen because they are suspected of funneling donations to terrorist organizations, has asked the Treasury Department for permission to transfer some of its charitable assets to another nonprofit group. [A16.]

Shell Investigation Creates a Rift
The early conclusions of an internal investigation into Shell's oil reserve write-down have created warring factions of the board and former executives. [World Business, Section W.]

Battling the Big Game Makers
Velocity Micro, a maker of gaming computers, is working to fend off a challenge from bigger rivals. Small Business. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,377.95 down 3.33Nasdaq composite -- 2,024.85 down 5.2310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.37% up 0.02The euro -- $1.1955 up 0.0015The dollar -- 108.88 yen up 2.21Graph tracks the Consumer Price Index since October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (85%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); DISTILLERIES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); LIBERAL MEDIA (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); MEDICARE (55%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); VAN DER MOOLEN HOLDING NV (55%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (83%); VMH (FRA) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



328 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3; BLOCKS

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: At Ground Zero, Trying to Take Account of Ecology

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
AQUATIC biota gotta swim, terrestrial resources gotta fly.
 Fish and birds, the smallest stakeholders in the redevelopment of the World Trade Center site, have been accounted for in the final environmental impact statement, which is to be made public today. And they may end up influencing some very large projects.
 A plan to recreate a central cooling plant for the entire development, using Hudson River water drawn and expelled through five-foot-diameter pipes, has been criticized for its potential harm to marine life (or ''aquatic biota'' in the language of the statement). And fears have also been raised about birds being killed in collisions with the Freedom Tower (discussed under the heading ''terrestrial resources''). 
 ''The Hudson River flyway is very important for migratory birds, and we have to be aware of that,'' Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday.
 The environmental statement, approved Tuesday by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation board, offers no definitive answers. But it does open what may become an important debate over ground zero: how the built environment affects the natural environment of which it is necessarily -- if incongruously -- a part.
 At first, it is surprising to think that striped bass, white perch, bay anchovies and winter flounder have a stake in the design of the future World Trade Center. But these are among the species that were most commonly trapped by or drawn into the intake pipe of the original trade center cooling system.
 That system drew water from the Hudson, pumped it through a refrigeration plant under the twin towers, where it was used to cool the air supply, and then returned it to the river. The pipe ends are still visible in the west foundation wall.
 Current planning calls for a system that could take advantage of the surviving infrastructure -- pipes, pumps and intakes -- as the most economical and efficient way of cooling all the new buildings. 
 At the height of summer, the old system drew an estimated 63 million gallons of water a day. The corporation does not expect the future project to draw more than that and believes it may be considerably less.
 In the draft environmental statement issued in January, the development corporation said ''losses to aquatic biota'' would ''not be expected to be significant in 2009, but may be significant in 2015, if withdrawal volumes exceed projected flows.''
 A group of conservation organizations including Riverkeeper and the Natural Resources Defense Council saw nothing insignificant about it. ''The withdrawal of large volumes of water from the biologically rich Hudson River will cause the needless loss of millions of fish and invertebrates each year,'' they said in their comments on the draft.
 Criticism did not come from environmental groups alone.
 ''Any mortality of fish from the use of water for cooling purposes is an adverse environmental impact,'' the state Department of Environmental Conservation said. ''Significant adverse impacts are likely to result from both the project's first phase, to be completed in 2009, and from the final build-out in 2015.''
 In response, the development corporation said it would work with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to explore ways to reduce the effect, including flow reduction or the installation of fine-mesh screens or an egg and larvae barrier known as a Gunderboom.
 An even more significant alternative would be the construction of standard cooling towers in each building. But the corporation said those would take up floor space, add to building heights and consume otherwise drinkable water.
 Looking skyward, the corporation said in the final statement it would ''explore opportunities to reduce bird collisions.'' This might include using nonreflective glass (though reflective glass is helpful for energy conservation) and reducing the levels of interior and exterior lighting, especially during heavy migration periods.
 IN the draft environmental statement, the corporation said the ''number of collisions and resulting bird mortality is expected to be insignificant when compared to the total number of birds migrating along the Atlantic flyway.''
 But New York City Audubon said that was the wrong way to think about it. ''Of the 97 different species of birds that have been found to have collided with New York buildings, 43 are in decline,'' the group said in its comments. ''For a species in danger, every source of mortality is significant.''
 Absent from the group's comments was any mention of the power-generating windmills planned atop Freedom Tower. Governor Pataki himself expressed concern about the birds' welfare when he was shown the wind turbine proposal last year.
 E.J. McAdams, the executive director of New York City Audubon, said yesterday that the omission was deliberate, since the group did not yet know what the wind turbines would look like and therefore could not assess how they would affect birds.
 He did seem pleased to learn that the development corporation had responded to the group's comments, as a step toward integrating environmental concerns into building design. ''We need to think in a more holistic way,'' Mr. McAdams said. ''The bird issue and the fish issue are bringing that to the fore.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The new cooling system at ground zero could use the surviving water pipes, five feet in diameter, although striped bass, white perch, bay anchovies and winter flounder were often trapped and killed in them before. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FISHES (90%); BIRDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); RIVERS (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



329 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Surge In Consumer Prices Fans Inflation Fear

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Consumer prices jumped much more sharply than expected in March, driven by increases for gasoline and clothing. The data reawakened worries about a return to higher inflation and higher interest rates.
 The Labor Department reported on Wednesday that consumer prices rose by 0.5 percent in March, which would translate to an annual inflation rate of more than 6 percent if it were sustained. The inflation rate for all of 2003 was only 1.9 percent. 
 More startling to many economists, the ''core'' rate of inflation that excludes the volatile categories of energy and food rose at the fastest rate in almost four years. 
 In the New York metropolitan area, prices surged 1.1 percent last month, with housing, food and apparel playing the biggest roles. The increase was higher than for any other metropolitan area in the country and the biggest monthly jump for the region in 14 years. 
 While it is too soon to tell whether the national March inflation pace will continue, the latest data immediately stoked fears in the financial markets that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates as early as this summer. Nervous selling by bond investors Wednesday sent the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which is used to set mortgage and corporate borrowing rates, to 4.37 percent, its highest level since November. 
 Fed officials, who have tried to keep a lid on interest rates to stimulate the economy, have warned for the last few months that they will eventually have to raise the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans. At 1 percent, that rate is at its lowest level since 1958. But they have also made it clear they want to keep rates low until they see greater strength in the job market and concrete evidence of inflation, which tends to be a byproduct of an expanding economy. 
 The central bank received evidence of a recovery in the labor market earlier this month, when the Labor Department reported that 308,000 jobs were added in March -- far more than forecasters had been expecting.
 That report and a raft of other recent data about rebounding retail sales and rising commodity prices have increased pressure on the central bank to raise rates sooner rather than later -- possibly before the presidential election in November.
 That would be bad news for President Bush, but several top Fed officials have made it clear in the last two weeks that they want to see more sustained evidence of an employment recovery before they retreat from their easy-money policy.
 Investors, however, are not waiting for an official decision. On Tuesday, after the Commerce Department reported an unexpectedly big jump in retail sales last month, the yields on Treasury securities shot up, before heading even higher Wednesday. 
 If investors are convinced that inflation and interest rates are both headed higher, consumers could start feeling the pinch on mortgages and car loans long before the Federal Reserve changes its policy. 
 Mortgage rates have already edged up slightly since mid-March. Further increases could prove painful to consumers, because American households have greatly increased their overall indebtedness in the last several years, and many monthly payments fluctuate with changes in interest rates.
 Economists cautioned against drawing too many conclusions from the March inflation numbers, because some of the biggest price increases were in hotels and clothing, two areas that are known for big swings and not necessarily indicative of overall price trends.
 Lodging prices shot up 3.8 percent in March, but they dropped 1.6 percent the month before. Clothing prices rose by 0.9 percent, the biggest monthly jump in five years. But clothing prices had been heading down in previous months. 
 Higher oil prices, which are now hovering near $37 a barrel, pushed up prices for gasoline, air fares and other forms of transportation.
 But the significant price increases in the New York metropolitan area indicated patterns in New York that some economists read as hints that a broader acceleration might be under way.
 In contrast to other parts of the nation, in New York, the biggest price increases were for housing, food and clothing. By one measure regional housing costs shot up 1.7 percent in March, compared with February, and they were up 4.4 percent from March 2003. Clothing prices soared 6.9 percent in March, and food prices were up 1.2 percent for the month on products including chicken and eggs, and bread and milk.
 ''The driving forces were housing, apparel and food,'' said Michael L. Dolfman, the regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics in charge of the New York metropolitan area. ''It was not due to increases in gasoline, and it was not due to increases in energy.'' 
 Nationally, economists note other potential indicators of more broadly based inflation -- like the sharp price increases in recent months for a wide range of commodities ranging from oil and beef to gold and steel scrap. Although Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has said that commodity prices play a much smaller role than they once did in the overall chain of inflation, they can sometimes be an indicator of price trends. 
 Prices for materials like steel and rubber have been driven in part by surging demand from China, but prices for many other products have been climbing as a result of faster growth in the United States and other parts of the world. 
 Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh, said the report on consumer prices had reinforced his conviction that the Federal Reserve would start to raise interest rates by late this summer.
 Many investors appear to be assuming a rate increase in July, based on prices of federal funds futures, which allow investors to bet on the direction of the federal funds rate.
 Analysts at Goldman Sachs, who had seemed convinced that the Fed would not start to tighten monetary policy until next year, began to hedge their bets on Wednesday. 
 ''The latest data open up a meaningful possibility that tightening could begin as early as August 2004,'' wrote Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman.
 But James Glassman, a senior economist at J.P. Morgan Chase, said the central bank would not raise rates until the nation has added far more jobs than it has so far. Despite the addition of 308,000 jobs last month, Mr. Glassman said the nation remained about three million to six million jobs short of where it would be if it had full employment. 
 The United States has lost about two million jobs in the last three years, and the size of the working-age population has been climbing at a rate requiring 1.4 million new jobs a year.
 ''I am genetically coded to be cognizant of the output gap,'' Mr. Glassman said on Wednesday. ''To me, now is not the time to be expecting inflation to heat up.''
 Roger W. Ferguson Jr., the vice chairman of the Fed, has expressed similar skepticism about both the strength of the job market and the signs of resurgent inflation.
 Mr. Ferguson noted that the nation still employed 500,000 fewer people in March than it did at the trough of the recession in 2001.
 ''The labor market has been surprisingly weak,'' he declared in a speech on April 8, six days after the encouraging report on job creation in March. ''The most recent data suggest that the labor market is improving gradually, but the question of whether this improvement is fundamental and durable will take some time to answer.''
 Although prices for some commodities have risen, Mr. Ferguson continued, consumer prices seemed only to be stabilizing after having fallen for a lengthy period.
 Mr. Greenspan and other senior officials have hinted that they would actually like to see the rate of inflation rise slightly. They worry that price increases below 1 percent annually veer too close for comfort to a deflationary spiral in which falling prices create economic stagnation. 
 But Fed officials have offered different ideas about what an acceptable inflation rate might be. Ben S. Bernanke, a Fed governor, has suggested that it might be 1 to 2 percent a year, while William C. Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, has suggested it should be ''zero inflation, properly measured.'' ''Properly measured,'' according to him, would be about 1 percent by conventional measures. 
 Michael Prell, a former head of research at the Federal Reserve Board, said this week that the central bank should not keep interest rates as low as they are much longer because the economy is growing and prices will start rising.
 ''My sense is they would be well advised to at least move in the direction of tightening'' the money supply, Mr. Prell said. ''I would be increasingly concerned if things were to continue to go the way they are right now.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Signs of Inflation . . .''Recent economic reports show retail sales have picked up, the housing market remains strong and consumer prices are rising more quickly.Graphs track Consumer Price Index*, Retail Sales* and Housing Starts+ since 2003.*Monthly change +Seasonally adjusted annual rate. . . Are Worrying MarketsBond yields have surged as investors become more convinced that the Federal Reserve will soon raise interest rates. That expectation is already crimping the market for new and refinanced mortgages.Graphs track 10-Year Treasury Yield, Fed Funds Futures* and Mortgage Activity+ since Jan.*Contracts that reflect expectations about future interest rate moves by the Federal Reserve
the contract for July suggests investors think the Fed is likely to raise rates by then.+Weekly index of new and refinanced mortgage activity, seasonally adjusted(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Mortgage Bankers Association)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INFLATION (95%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); CITIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); CONSUMER LENDING (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CORPORATE BONDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); ELECTIONS (67%); CORPORATE DEBT (66%); RETAIL SALES (60%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



330 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Iranian Delegation in Iraq Offers a Surprising Ally
An Iranian government delegation arrived in Baghdad to help mediate the standoff between American troops and a rebel cleric. Some said the Iranians' presence marked a potential turning point in 25 years of enmity between Washington and Teheran. A1

American forces killed more than 100 insurgents in close combat in a small village in central Iraq. A8

The Pentagon is rushing one of the Army's most highly regarded generals, Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, back to Iraq to help train and equip Iraqi security forces. A11

South Korea is expected to deploy more troops to Iraq by June. A11

Remains of American soldiers killed in Iraq were returned home, greeted by memorial and funeral processions nationwide. Last week was the deadliest yet for American soldiers. A1

Bush Supports Israeli Plan
President Bush recognized Israel's right to retain some West Bank settlements as part of any peace accord with the Palestinians as he endorsed an Israeli plan to withdraw from Gaza and parts of the West Bank. A6

Palestinian leaders criticized Mr. Bush, saying his support for Israeli positions on settlements, borders, and the fate of Palestinian refugees had dealt a perhaps fatal blow to what remains of the peace effort. A6

Musharraf May Break Accord
President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan said that he may break his agreement to resign as army chief by the end of the year. A14

Rituals of Madrid Bombers
The Islamic extremists responsible for the Madrid train bombings financed their plot with sales of hashish and Ecstasy and drank holy water from Mecca in ritual ''purification acts'' before the attacks, a Spanish official said. A3

Cheney Warns Chinese Leaders
Vice President Dick Cheney presented Chinese leaders with new evidence about the scope of North Korea's nuclear program. A3

NATIONAL A18-24

Panel Cites C.I.A. Failure To Act on Credible Threats
George J. Tenet and his deputies at the C.I.A. were presented in August 2001 with a briefing paper labeled ''Islamic Extremist Learns to Fly'' about the arrest days earlier of Zacarias Moussaoui, but they did not act on the information, one of many glaring intelligence failures at the C.I.A. cited by the Sept. 11 commission. A1

Girl Found Alive After 10 Days
A 5-year-old girl survived for 10 days in a remote ravine alongside her mother's body after their car plunged off a highway and came to rest under the canopy of a tree. A18

Charity Seeks to Shift Funds
One of three charities whose assets have been frozen because of suspected links to terrorist organizations, has asked the Treasury Department for permission to transfer some of its charitable assets to another nonprofit organization. A18

Kerry Urges U.N. Involvement
Senator John Kerry urged President Bush to share responsibility for Iraq with the United Nations, saying the administration's ''stubborn'' insistence on controlling the reconstruction of that country was costing Americans in money and lives. A24

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Case of Polio in Botswana
Botswana has reported its first case of polio since 1991. A16

Distant Planet Lacks Moon
Astronomers have pointed the sharp-eyed Hubble Space Telescope at Sedna, the newly discovered, most distant member of the solar system, but they are puzzled by absence of a smaller companion moon. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City to Begin Enforcing U.S. Public Housing Law
New York will join San Diego and Milwaukee in enforcing federal legislation that requires all public housing residents who are not working full time, studying, disabled or over the age of 62 to perform community service every year. Many public housing advocates say the requirements are impractical and insulting. A1

Million-Dollar Manhattan
The average sales price for an apartment in the part of Manhattan south of East 96th and West 112th Streets climbed to a record high of $998,905 for the first three months of 2004, surpassing the previous record. B1

Guilty Plea in Drug Theft
A police detective who was arrested after he and his retired partner were caught on videotape stealing $169,000 in drug money pleaded guilty to federal conspiracy charges, admitting that he stole cocaine and drug money. B3

That Letter Stands for Hands Off
Herman Goldsmith, a Long Island car salesman who has held his single-letter vanity license plate for more than 20 years, won the right to keep it after he took the Department of Motor Vehicles to court. B1

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES C15

CIRCUITS G1-10

A Story Unfolds via E-Mail
The story of a new novel, ''Intimacies,'' by Eric Brown, unfolds through e-mail messages, instant-message conversations and Web sites. G1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Consumer Prices Increase
Consumer prices jumped more sharply than expected in March, driven by increases in gasoline and clothing. The data reawakened worries about a return to higher inflation and higher interest rates. A1

Company Accused of Tax Fraud
The Justice Department asked a federal judge to shut down a tax preparation firm that it says promotes income tax fraud and contends has bilked the government and 100,000 customers out of millions of dollars. C1

Grasso Pay Inquiry Widened
Regulators broadened the inquiry into the pay of Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman of the Big Board, and expect to sue him to recoup some of the money, people involved in the investigation said. C1

Rivals Against Common Foe
RealNetworks appealed to its Internet music rival Apple Computer, suggesting that the companies unite against Microsoft. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The price of incuriosity; settlements over peace; mercury wars; banking on local communities.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E8
Crossword E4
Weather A25
Public Lives B4


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHARITIES (88%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); REFUGEES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); CANNABIS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRAN (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



331 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: In Public Housing, It's Work, Volunteer or Leave

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
For Shaleema Malave, a resident of the Lillian Wald Houses on the Lower East Side, the letter arrived unexpectedly about two weeks ago, and it read like a kind of draft notice.
 To keep her public housing apartment, the one-page letter from the New York City Housing Authority said, Ms. Malave, a stay-at-home mother of four boys under the age of 18, would have to perform 96 hours of unpaid community service over the next 12 months. Volunteering for the Police Department would do, the letter suggested. So, too, would Habitat for Humanity, or a library, or the Parks Department.
 ''I'm not free to be a mother?'' asked Ms. Malave, 42, as she sat with her husband and sons. ''We're not breaking the law.'' 
 Starting next month, New York City will be the latest city to begin enforcing federal legislation enacted six years ago. The law requires all public housing residents who are not working full time, studying, disabled or over the age of 62 to perform community service every year. 
 The endeavor is a variation on the theme of welfare reform, and it is one of the most significant policies affecting public housing in decades. Supporters say that the volunteer work would instill a greater sense of discipline and responsibility among public housing residents.
 Some agencies that got off to an early start trying to meet the federal requirements, like the San Diego Housing Commission, say that while they still have reservations about the legislation's practical merits, the requirement has not been too hard to administer. Others, in Milwaukee and Mississippi, have reported that dozens of people have turned their volunteer commitments into full-time jobs, said Michael Liu, assistant secretary for public and Indian housing at the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 ''We've heard very few complaints from housing agencies on that issue,'' Mr. Liu said. ''The bottom-line idea of community service is a positive one.''
 The program could affect as many as 350,000 people nationwide. In New York, the legislation will apply to as many as 80,000 or so people -- or roughly 20 percent of the city's official tally of 419,000 public housing residents. And while the housing authority has never been enthusiastic about the law -- and in fact has tried to exempt as many people as possible -- it has also promised to uphold the law. As such, the housing authority has published literature and worked with tenant leaders to remind residents that a failure to comply could lead to eviction.
 Many residents, though, say that they are still befuddled, and that their requests for information or clarification have sometimes gone unheeded. And so some people who work in world of subsidized housing contend that many New York residents are becoming increasingly anxious and angry about a program that they feel is impractical and insulting.
 ''People are just now getting the letters, and they're saying, 'Community service? Why?''' said Ethel Velez, executive director of the New York City Public Housing Residents Alliance. ''It's like a silent virus going through the developments, and folks don't know where to turn. And then you have some people saying, 'It's not true. It's not true. It's not true.'''
 But it is true, and it was mandated by the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998 that was sponsored by former Representative Rick A. Lazio, a Republican of Long Island, and signed by President Clinton. The enforcement of that law has been delayed, partly because it took HUD a few years to develop the regulations and partly because of legislative maneuverings by Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat of Harlem. But last June, HUD informed public housing agencies that it wanted to see the program in place by October 2003.
 New York has generally been on par with other places in rolling out the mechanics of the program, which gives residents a year to complete the 96 hours. But now, with that one-year clock set to start on May 1 for some residents, there is a growing sense of immediacy; on Friday, in fact, a City Council subcommittee on public housing is holding its first hearing on the topic.
 To supporters, community service is a modest and natural extension of the principles underlying the revamping of welfare policy in the 1990s: public assistance, including subsidized housing, is not an eternal entitlement, but a short-term springboard to a sturdier, more independent life.
 ''The requirement in housing is really just a very baby step, but it is important to take a baby step in order that to go down the path toward real reform,'' said Robert Rector, senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation. ''You can impose requirements with the goal of helping them to become self-sufficient.''
 To detractors, though, the program is prone to abuse by low-level housing employees who help to determine what counts, or does not count, as community service. It applies to households, they note, in which people are working, and who pay some part of rent. In that, they say, the program stigmatizes the poor, because it is applied unevenly. The critics point out, for instance, that Congress does not ask the same of other recipients of federal assistance, such as those with Section 8 vouchers, in which the government provides assistance for rentals outside of public housing projects.
 '''Why do public housing residents need this requirement?'' asked Judith Goldiner, a staff lawyer for the Legal Aid Society. ''Because Congress saw them as poor people of color in need of lifting up by their bootstraps unlike the real recipients of federal benefits: tobacco farmers, large corporations like Halliburton and even people who get tax deductions for their mortgages.''
 But supporters of community service say any criticism centering on race miss the broader point about the intersection of poverty, housing and social policy.
 'This is an effort on the part of HUD and Congress to create a better environment within public housing projects, a more socially normal, safe and secure environment,'' said Howard Husock, director of case studies in public policy and management at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. 
 To its credit, tenant advocates say, the New York City Housing Authority has greatly expanded the number of people who will be exempted from the requirement. That protected list now includes someone who is actively looking for work, or someone who is the primary caretaker for the blind or disabled, or someone who is providing child care to a housing authority resident under the age of 5, in selected circumstances.
 That may not be all, said Douglas Apple, the housing authority's general manager.
 ''If there are legally sufficient grounds to increase the number of exemptions, we would certainly consider that,'' Mr. Apple said. ''I would challenge you to find another city that has more exemptions than us.''
 Residents can divvy up their 96 hours in any way, Mr. Apple said, whether it be eight hours each month for 12 months, or 96 hours consecutively. If one household member does not comply, then the entire household would run the risk of eviction. But those who fail to come up with the required hours may be given as much as a year to compensate, before the housing authority resorts to eviction.
 ''If people say, 'I had this issue, I had that issue, I couldn't do it,' we'll give them time -- and this is a legal term -- to cure,'' he said.
 The first letters were mailed out in January and February, and the rest will be distributed quarterly, depending on when a family's lease is up for renewal.
 Each letter contains a one-page summary of each family member's eligibility, supplemented by two pages of rules. It begins with a generic salutation, ''Dear Resident,'' and closes with ''The Management.''
 Then, in boldface letters, there is a chart resembling a baseball box score that lists each person's name, social security number, date of birth and status: EXEMPT or COMMUNITY SERVICE REQUIRED.
 Those who have received their letters already say that they resent being told that they have to volunteer, when many already give time to their local church or local sports league. Many also worry that a good number of teenagers or young adults who may be living at home, jobless and perhaps rudderless, may not take the law seriously -- thereby jeopardizing the entire household.
 The same sentiments could be heard at a recent workshop at Two Bridges Houses on the Lower East Side, run by Damaris Reyes, director of organizing for Public Housing Residents of the Lower East Side, which has opposed the new law. One person said that the community service connoted ''jail.''
 Another contended that community service was part of a broader plot to do away with public housing to make for ''primo housing'' in Manhattan.
 Linda Lopez, 43, recently quit her job for the housing authority because of nagging knee problems, but has been turned down for Supplementary Security Income. So she asked Ms. Reyes whether she could perform community service, even though she has been ruled exempt for the current year, in order to save it for future years, in a fashion similar to a bank statement.
 The answer was no.
 ''A lot of things about the letter -- I tell you the truth, I just don't understand, and I don't feel too comfortable with it,'' said Ms. Lopez, a single mother of an 11-year-old daughter. ''But if that's something that I have to do in order to preserve a roof over my head for my child and myself, I'll do it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shaleema Malave, left, with sons Ricky, 18, and Shemuel, 8, and her husband, Luis Malave, in her Lower East Side apartment, opposes the requirement that public housing residents perform volunteer work to keep their apartments. ''I'm not free to be a mother?'' she asked. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B8)Chart: ''OVERVIEW: Volunteering Required''According to federal law, all public housing residents who are not exempt must perform community service. New York City will in the next month begin to enforce the new regulation. Here are some of the exemptions and acceptable volunteer activities.EXEMPTIONSAGE -- 17 and younger
62 and older.EMPLOYMENT -- An adult with no child below age 13 and earning at least $8,034 a year, or working at least 30 hours a week.A single adult family with at least one child below age 13 and earning at least $5,356 a year, or working at least 20 hours a week.DISABILITY -- Those receiving disability income
those with a permanent disability, including blindness, certified by a doctor
primary caretaker for the blind or disabled.PUBLIC ASSISTANCE -- Individuals receiving welfare, or included in a family welfare budget.EDUCATION -- Satisfactory attendance at secondary school or higher, or a course leading to a certificate of general equivalency.WORK RELATED -- On-the-job training
training in job-seeking or interviewing skills.CHILDCARE -- Provider to a child age 5 or younger who lives in the provider's apartment.ACTIVITIESResidents must spend eight hours a month performing community service or participating in programs that encourage economic selfsufficiency.HOUSING AUTHORITY ACTIVITIES -- Tenant patrol
attendance at resident association meetings
tenant association president or board member
community center or senior center volunteer
housing authority gardening program
participation in community clean-up day.NON-HOUSING AUTHORITY ACTIVITIES -- Food bank volunteer
ambulance service volunteer
parks department volunteer
local school or day care facility volunteer
Boys Club/Girls Club volunteer, AmeriCorps volunteer
police department or auxiliary police volunteer
youth mentoring program
being a foster parent.SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAMS -- Household budgeting and management
apprenticeship
employment counseling
basic skills training
English proficiency
 workfare.(Source by New York City Housing Authority)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (94%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); CITIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (57%)

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; United States; San Diego (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



332 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Apartments Going Up, to an Average of $1 Million

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
The average sales price for an apartment in most of Manhattan rose to $998,905 in the first three months of 2004, surpassing the previous record of $919,959, set in the third quarter of last year. 
 At a time when economists and homebuyers have been wondering whether a housing bubble is on the verge of popping, the average sales price climbed to a record high, according to the Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Overview, one of the most comprehensive surveys of the real estate market below 96th Street on the East Side and below 112th Street on the West Side.
 According to Miller Samuel, the appraisal firm that prepared the Elliman report, the median price -- the exact middle of all apartment sales -- in Manhattan during the first quarter was $625,000. But even that was a record, up 21 percent from the same period a year earlier. 
 Figures from the Corcoran Group, one of the largest real estate brokers in Manhattan, showed that average prices breached the psychological barrier of $1 million in the first quarter of this year, rising 32 percent, to $1,001,000, from $760,000 in the same period last year. 
 The high averages posted last quarter have all been skewed by high-priced sales as more people have bought bigger and more expensive apartments than at the same time last year. Many of the price increases were driven by bidding wars and buyers offering well over asking prices. According to Corcoran, the number of deals that closed over the asking price was 57 percent in the first quarter, up from just 23 percent in the same period last year.
 Dottie Herman, president of Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate, said the increase was simply a case of supply and demand. ''There really is no supply,'' she said. Indeed, according to the firm's market overview, inventories of available apartments for sale continued to fall in the first quarter to 4,299 apartments, down 32 percent from 6,349 a year ago.
 In the fourth quarter of last year, prices dipped slightly, to $903,259. That was in comparison to a third-quarter figure that had been inflated by the record-setting $45 million sale of a penthouse at the Time Warner Center. The increase in prices in the first quarter of this year has delighted brokers, but also discouraged buyers.
 Ms. Herman said that the lack of available apartments had incited bidding wars, and that she believed the market was now even more frenzied than during the hot market of 1999 and 2000.
 Such numbers have meant sticker shock for a lot of buyers. Ann McIndoo, a 50-year-old speechwriter for authors who is trying to move to Manhattan from Orange County, California, thought that with $1 million, she would be able to find a spacious two-bedroom apartment here.
 But when she started seeing what her money could buy in Manhattan, she was stunned, and began raising her offering price from $1 million, gradually hitting $1.8 million. She also scaled back the list of demands she gave her broker: ''When I first gave him my list, I said, 'I want two bedrooms, lots of light, closets, a window in the kitchen.' But when I started looking at things, I found that just isn't available here. Or you need three or four million to do it.''
 Bill Billitzer, the Douglas Elliman broker who is working with Ms. McIndoo, said: ''For people that have been in their homes for some time, $1.5 million is a lot of money. You can't just tell them 'no, you've got to increase your budget by 30 to 40 percent.''' He said he had several clients who had given up on buying for now and were renting instead.
 The crazy state of the market, though, makes some buyers wonder whether they will see a repeat of the late 1980's and early 1990's, when prices hit record highs and then plunged. With so much home buying driven by historically low mortgage rates, economists are watching for the impact of a probable rise in interest rates as early as this summer.
 ''The biggest danger to the market is that rates will go up,'' said Karl E. Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College and a partner in Fiserv CSW, a real estate research firm. Still, he said, most people regarded real estate as a better investment than stocks or bonds, a factor that would likely keep prices from collapsing altogether.
 Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, said rising interest rates would at first prompt even more people to enter the market. ''When people start to see interest rates picking up, they're going to try even harder to get in before they go even higher,'' she said. ''It's like a battle cry.''
 Even if prices do come down, said Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens, a real estate brokerage firm in Manhattan, housing will remain a good investment. ''The only people in my entire career that I've ever seen lose money are those that by circumstance buy in a high market and then they are forced by circumstance to sell at a low,'' he said. ''Barring that, if you look over time, even where there are dips in values, the value of real estate over time continues to go up.''
 The bidding wars have become a particular problem, said Chuck Sage, a broker with Douglas Elliman, because buyers were having trouble securing mortgages when bankers appraised the apartments for less than the purchase price. ''If somebody is buying something for several thousand dollars more than what the apartment is actually worth, then the buyer may not get the amount of money that you need to finance the apartment,'' Mr. Sage said.
 Despite such worrying trends, Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, said he did not believe the market was approaching the troubled waters of the early 1990's. The difference, he said, was that in the late 1980's, a boom in co-op conversions and condo development flooded the market with supply for which there was no demand. This time around, supply is in check and low interest rates are keeping demand high.
 That is not much comfort for the buyers who are struggling to find an apartment. Ms. McIndoo, the relocating speechwriter, said she would keep looking. But, she said, ''I'll probably have to spend more money.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Manhattan Apartment Prices Soar''Average sale price for Manhattan apartments south of East 96th Street and West 112th Street, from the first quarter of 1999 through the first quarter of 2004, and the percentage change for that time period.Graph tracks average sale price for Manhattan apartments, co-ops and condos from the first quarter of 1999 through the first quarter of 2004, and the percentage change for that time period.ALL APARTMENTS: +88%CO-OPS: +79%CONDOS: +102%(Source by Miller Samuel, Douglas Elliman)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



333 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Board Oversight At Riggs Bank Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Ever since Joe L. Allbritton took control of the Riggs National Corporation in 1981, the bank's board has been a cozy blend of family, friends and business associates. Mr. Allbritton's wife, Barbara, who has no banking experience, served on the board for several years in the 1990's. His son, Robert, joined the board in 1994 at 25, and today is both a director and the chief executive of Riggs. 
 Other familiar faces on the board include Joe Allbritton's close friend, Jack Valenti, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, who has been a director since 1986 and heads the important compensation committee, and Steven Pfeiffer, a lawyer whose firm does work for Riggs and who has been a director since 1989. Over the years, the board allowed Mr. Allbritton, who served as chief executive until 2002, to pursue risky lines of business and maintain a cost structure fattened by perks like a corporate jet. Bank analysts also say that he lost touch with Riggs's bottom line while cultivating the relatively small bank's glamorous international operations. 
 Now, though, the board's vigilance is coming under greater scrutiny. Riggs is mired in several federal money laundering investigations involving its accounts, and analysts say that banking regulators will hold directors accountable for how effectively they monitored Riggs's anti-money-laundering practices. 
 ''The board of directors at Riggs National bank has clearly had a close relationship with Joe Allbritton as evidenced by the tenure of Joe Allbritton and members of the board itself,'' said Gerard S. Cassidy, a banking analyst with RBC Capital Markets. ''It's tough to make a difficult decision as a board when you're close to senior management, and that's clearly figured into Riggs's current situation.''
 Although federal guidelines to thwart money laundering have been somewhat contradictory since the late 1990's -- veering from requirements seeking tighter screening of customers suspected of laundering funds to looser standards aimed at preserving clients' financial privacy -- the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks swung the legal pendulum firmly in favor of strict ''know your customer'' policies and careful monitoring of suspicious banking activities. 
 ''A member of a board of a bank has an absolute responsibility to make sure that the bank has put in place policies, procedures and internal controls'' to ensure that the bank is complying with federal guidelines to prevent money laundering, said Kenneth F. Ehrlich, a lawyer at the Boston firm of Nutter, McClennen & Fish.
 Mr. Ehrlich and others familiar with regulatory guidelines say that these responsibilities are clear-cut and include a documented compliance program that is regularly reviewed by the board. If there are gaps, the board is required to push management to close them.
 ''Regulators tell the boards whether they have an adequate program in place, and it has to be high on any board's list of priorities to make sure that's occurred,'' said Geoffrey M. Connor, a lawyer with Reed, Smith, a Princeton, N.J., firm. ''There's also a patriotic aspect to all of this since many of us are within about 100 miles of where 9/11 occurred.''
 Riggs provides banking services to most of Washington's foreign embassies and to American consulates worldwide. Federal law enforcement officials, Congressional investigators and banking regulators are scouring its accounts in a wide-ranging examination revolving around possible terrorist financing, money laundering or graft. Saudi Arabian and Equatorial Guinean accounts are at the center of the investigation. 
 A spokesman for the Saudi Arabian Embassy said that the F.B.I. recently assured the embassy that there were no concerns that any Saudi accounts at Riggs involved terrorist funds or money laundering. The Equatorial Guinean Embassy did not respond to interview requests. 
 Neither Mr. Allbritton nor Riggs has been charged with any crime, although regulators have labeled the bank as a troubled institution and say they are considering levying large fines for possible violations of statutes meant to thwart money laundering. A former senior Riggs executive is a target of a grand jury hearing related to the investigation.
 As regulatory scrutiny of the Saudi Arabian and Equatorial Guinean accounts increased over the last year, the management of Riggs began seriously overhauling and improving its monitoring systems. But Riggs declined to discuss in detail how active its board was in monitoring anti-money-laundering practices at the bank before then. 
 ''The Board of Riggs Bank takes quite seriously all regulatory matters affecting Riggs Bank and has directed management to take all initiatives necessary to ensure that Riggs Bank has in place the appropriate expertise, compliance systems and technology,'' the bank said in a statement. ''The board of Riggs Bank addresses regulatory matters directly with regulators and does not expect to comment further publicly.''
 Riggs Bank is a subsidiary of Riggs National and has different board members than the holding company. Analysts and lawyers say that a board's supervisory responsibilities, including the monitoring of anti-money-laundering practices, typically reside at the holding company level for most banks. But Riggs declined to discuss exactly where those responsibilities reside at the bank.
 In an interview last week, Mr. Valenti declined to discuss any board matters at length, including how closely the board has monitored Riggs' anti-money-laundering procedures.
 ''No board ever gets into operational details unless that is asked of it,'' he said. ''We've been kept apprised of all details.'' 
 Other Riggs directors did not return phone calls seeking comment. Six of the bank's 12 board members are company insiders, and outsiders include people like Mr. Valenti who are close to Mr. Allbritton or have a financial relationship with the bank. 
 Other outside directors include Mr. Pfeiffer; Charles Camalier, a lawyer whose firm provides legal services to Riggs; and Eddie Williams, president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington research center; Mr. Allbritton and his wife have helped the center raise funds. Riggs has also provided funds for Mr. Williams's organization, and the Joint Center lists the bank as one of its leading corporate donors. 
 Analysts say that these financial bonds may make Riggs' outside directors less objective than they should be, especially when their responsibilities involve monitoring a complex institution like a bank.
 ''You really need excellent managers to run a bank because it's a business in which all the parts are moving,'' said Gary B. Townsend, an equity analyst with Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. ''Riggs has not been well run from a shareholder standpoint, and from that you can infer that I'm critical of the board.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); LAWYERS (74%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) 

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (91%); PNC BANK NA (58%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); NUTTER MCCLENNEN & FISH LLP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%) Riggs National; Riggs National; Rbc Capital Markets

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Gerard S Cassidy; Joe Allbritton; Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



334 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Given Worry or Optimism, The Street Opts to Worry

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street ended an erratic session with a minuscule loss yesterday as investors were torn between concerns over rising interest rates and optimism about generally strong corporate earnings. Tepid forecasts from companies including Intel also pressured the market.
 A higher-than-expected increase in consumer prices stoked anxiety over interest rates, sending stocks down substantially before they stabilized near unchanged levels. Analysts said the muted sell-off showed that investors understood that the economy remained in good health. 
 ''The good news is that the recovery appears firmly in place, with stronger employment, strong retail sales and good corporate profit reports,'' said Rick Giesen, director for value equity at National City Investment Management in Cleveland. ''The bad news is on the inflationary front, and that some of the fears about a rate tightening are negatively impacting stocks and bonds.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 3.33 points, or 0.03 percent, to 10,377.95, after a 1.3 percent drop in the previous session. The broader gauges were also lower. The Nasdaq composite index sagged 5.23 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,024.85, after a 1.7 percent decline on Tuesday. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 1.27, or 0.1 percent, at 1,128.17, after a 1.4 percent loss on Tuesday.
 Renewing concerns about inflation, the Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in March, higher than the 0.3 percent increase forecast by economists. The increase in the Consumer Price Index, the government's most closely watched inflation barometer, was propelled by more expensive gasoline, air fares and clothing.
 The Federal Reserve has been slow to raise the important short-term interest rate from its current 45-year low, in part because of the long period of low inflation. But Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and other policy makers have indicated that a change is coming, though they have not said when.
 Strong retail sales for March, reported Tuesday, and improving labor market data had already stirred fears among investors that rates would be raised sooner rather than later. Lehman Brothers predicted the Fed could act in September, instead of in 2005, as the firm had previously forecast.
 Interest-rate sensitive stocks, such as financials, suffered as rate-wary investors moved assets into more cyclical areas, like pharmaceuticals and health care. Bank of America Corporation fell 41 cents, to $80.09, despite reporting earnings that beat analysts' expectations. Other financial stocks also declined, including American Express, down $1.60 at $49.80, and J.P. Morgan Chase & Company, down 77 cents at $39.27. Several drug companies rose, including Johnson & Johnson, up $1.21 at $52.60, and Pfizer Inc., up 42 cents at $35.81.
 Intel was down 30 cents at $27.37 after missing earnings expectations despite an 89 percent profit spike on demand for computers and other high-tech gear. Intel, the world's largest chip maker also disappointed some analysts with its revenue forecast.
 The McDonald's Corporation sank $1.27, or 4.5 percent, to $27 after it reported strong March sales and said its earnings were likely to beat Wall Street estimates, but warned of more modest growth in the European market.
 United States Treasuries declined. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note dropped 4/32 to 97 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.37 percent, from 4.35 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); BONDS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); RETAIL SALES (70%) 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); INTEL CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



335 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Amid a Forest's Ashes, a Debate Over Logging Profits Is Burning On

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PREUSCH

DATELINE: SELMA, Ore. 

 BODY:
For 120 days in 2002, a colossal wildfire scarred a half-million acres of Southern Oregon and Northern California, leaving behind a charred landscape that has turned into fertile soil for a conflict over how to manage the public forests.
 The Forest Service's plan for a large salvage logging operation on the site of wildfire, called the Biscuit fire, is reopening old wounds and threatens to undercut the shaky truce between environmentalists and the timber industry.
 And with another year of drought forecast across the West, forest managers are sure to be confronted again this summer with fire and its aftermath.
 The question posed by the Biscuit fire is whether huge wildfires call for aggressive management, like logging and replanting, or whether nature should be allowed to rebuild with limited human interference. 
 It is largely an argument over views of fire. Professional foresters, the traditional decision makers in the Northwest's forests, see a wildfire as akin to burning dollar bills, and seek to recoup economic losses through salvage logging. Environmentalists see fire as a normal, even critical, component of the landscape.
 Last November, managers for the Siskiyou National Forest released their preliminary plan for the Biscuit. It calls for logging on 29,000 acres and a timber harvest of about a half-billion board feet, 20 percent more than the total annual output from federal forests in Oregon and Washington, the second largest federal timber-producing region in the country. It would be one of the largest public timber sales in the nation's history. Next month, after a public comment period, the Forest Service will release its final plan.
 About 12,000 acres of the logging would take place in what are known as Inventoried Roadless Areas, until recently exempt from development. Judge Clarence Brimmer of Federal District Court in Wyoming struck down the Clinton-era roadless rule last year, opening 58 million acres of federal forest to development.
 Environmental groups have appealed, and efforts to log in roadless areas of the Biscuit are being closely watched as an early test of whether the roadless rule is dead.
 Environmentalists also see the salvage proposal as a test of how the protections for old growth forests set 10 years ago in the Northwest Forest Plan, the guiding document for forests in western Oregon and Washington which served as a treaty between environmentalists and industry, extend to burned forests.
 Among other things, the plan was meant to balance the needs of the spotted owl, an endangered species dependent on old growth forests, with the demand for timber. But the plan has been criticized as vague about how the old growth reserves should be handled after large fires. And the timber industry says it has yet to see the steady supply of timber promised under the plan, and environmentalists are worried that the Bush administration is dismantling its conservation principles.
 Don Smith, director of the Siskiyou Project, an environmental coalition, said the preferred alternative came as a shock to groups like his that had grown accustomed to a close relationship with Siskiyou National Forest managers. ''It does not seem that the actual proposal is anchored in reality,'' he said. ''Biscuit is basically acting as a battering ram to knock down the roadless rule.''
 It is not just environmental groups that have challenged the Forest Service's plan. The federal Environmental Protection Agency warned that if not altered, the salvage operation would result in degradation of water quality and fish habitat in the streams and rivers that cut through the Siskiyou Mountains.
 Jerry Franklin, a forest ecologist at the University of Washington who was involved in drafting the Northwest Forest Plan, has taken issue with the preferred alternative, saying it fails to consider the more recent science on post-fire logging.
 In an article in the journal Science, Mr. Franklin and a group of colleagues said that salvage logging policies should be developed before major fires, instead of managers' conducting salvage operations immediately after a fire.
 ''To many ecologists, natural disturbances are key ecosystem processes rather than ecological disasters that require human repair,'' they wrote.
 Those in the timber industry see waste in the decaying timber.
 ''Is that stuff there and available?'' said Chris West of the American Forest Resource Council in Portland. ''It is. And if it isn't used, it's lost. It would be an ecological and social tragedy to not do some salvage on the Biscuit.''
 Jack Ward Thomas, chief of the Forest Service between from 1993 to 1996 and primary author of the Northwest Forest Plan, now a professor of wildlife conservation at the University of Montana, said it fell to the Forest Service to find a middle ground in situations like the one taking place in southern Oregon.
 ''I don't know that there is as much known about the science of salvage logging as we like,'' Professor Thomas said. ''It's not as much as we would all like to know about it. And maybe the Biscuit fire and some of these operations now can teach us something about it.''
 Meanwhile, as time passes, marketable logs burned in the Biscuit continue to decay, losing value.
 Scott Conroy, forest supervisor for the Rogue River and Siskiyou National Forests, has requested an ''emergency situation'' designation to speed timber sales in the Biscuit.
 ''The dead trees are deteriorating at an increasing rate, and those trees are losing value,'' Mr. Conroy said.
 But both timber industry representatives and environmentalists agree that there is a chance that no marketable timber will ever be sold from the Biscuit.
 ''My industry doesn't expect very much timber volume to ever come off of the Biscuit,'' Mr. West said.
 Environmental groups say they will sue instead of letting any large salvage operations begin. Failing a court victory, the groups say they will resort to tactics like tree sitting and human roadblocks.
 Walking along a Forest Service road above the Illinois River and poking among charred manzanitas, Mr. Smith, with the Siskiyou Project, foresaw only conflict.
 ''There is a clash coming,'' he said. ''A war in the woods.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Trees burned in the 2002 Biscuit fire are beginning to rot. Dominick DellaSala of the World Wildlife Fund examined a partly burned tree as Elaine Wood, an area resident, looked on. (Photographs by Jim Krois for The New York Times)Map of Oregon and California highlighting the range of 2002 Biscuit fire: A Clinton-era roadless-forest rule faces a test in the Biscuit fire area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOGGING INDUSTRY (92%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FOREST FIRES (90%); FORESTRY SERVICES (90%); FIRES (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); HISTORY (73%); DROUGHT (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (68%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Matthew Preusch

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Oregon; California

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



336 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Falls $1.4 Billion in Month

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
A weak dollar and increased foreign demand for American products, especially automobiles and automotive parts, helped reduce the trade deficit by $1.4 billion in February, the government reported on Wednesday.
 Although the deficit, which was $42.1 billion, remained near the record it reached in January, the improved figures were good news for analysts who said the United States economy had been relying too heavily on consumer spending for its recovery.
 ''We need exports as another leg of the stool; it shows there is diversity in our recovery,'' said Nariman Behravesh, the chief economist for Global Insights. ''We're in a very deep hole, and it's going to take a while for us to make a dent.'' 
 The crucial factor in the February trend was the drop in the dollar, which has made American exports less expensive and more attractive. 
 For a change, China was the source of good news in trade for the United States. The trade deficit in goods with China actually decreased by more than $3 billion.
 ''China is gobbling up everything from the United States -- they're throwing up so many factories and skyscrapers they are importing at a breakneck pace,'' Sung Won Sohn, the chief economist at Wells Fargo, said in an interview from Seoul, South Korea, where he was traveling.
 But like other analysts, Mr. Sohn warned that China's economy could be overheating, and should the bubble burst, it could be painful for United States imports.
 Over all, exports in February rose 4 percent, to $92.4 billion, the biggest increase since 1996, according to the Commerce Department. 
 But the volume of imports, which rose 1.6 percent, to $134.5 billion, was still more than 45 percent higher than exports, showing the underlying problem. Since the 1990's, the United States has been building up a trade deficit, and last year it reached a record $489.4 billion.
 The trade deficit with Europe and Japan did not narrow. The goods deficit with the European Union increased to $7.4 billion from $5.9 billion. The deficit with Japan rose to $6.1 billion from $5.3 billion.
 The improved trade picture led some economists to forecast an annualized economic growth rate of 5 percent for the first quarter.
 Most heartening was the resurgence in exports generally across the board for goods and services. Shipments of cars, industrial supplies and materials all set records in February. But the export of consumer goods as well as capital goods improved. 
 Imports were driven by increases in petroleum products as well as industrial goods.
 ''This means foreign trade should become a contributor to growth in the economy,'' said Richard DeKaser, economist at the National City Corporation. 
 To finance its trade deficits, the United States has been borrowing record amounts from foreign investors and banks. The risk remains that investors could balk at continuing to lend the money needed just to finance that deficit. With very low interest rates, that has not been a problem. 
 ''We don't know how long foreigners will be willing to hold our debt, both our massive rising federal debt, and massive foreign debt, and that is very troublesome,'' said Barry Bluestone, an economist at Northeastern University in Boston.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Feb. 2004Balance -- -$42.09Imports -- 134.45Exports -- 92.37Graph tracks imports and exports since September. Graph tracks the deficit for the last 12 months.(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (61%) 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (60%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Commerce Department; European Union

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); PNC (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (54%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) China; Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



337 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Urges China to Press North Korea on A-Bombs

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 14 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney presented Chinese leaders with new evidence on Wednesday about the scope of North Korea's nuclear program and warned that ''time is not necessarily on our side'' in negotiations, a senior Bush administration official said Wednesday.
 Mr. Cheney told President Hu Jintao and other top leaders that the United States remained committed to a series of six-nation talks under Chinese auspices, held twice so far without tangible progress, to find a solution to the nuclear standoff. 
 But he emphasized that the talks must show ''real results'' soon, though he set no timetable. 
 ''It is important to stay engaged and to make progress,'' the senior official said. ''But we need to keep in mind that we need results and that they are developing nuclear weapons as we deliberate.''
 The discussions about North Korea were held during Mr. Cheney's three-day visit to China, his first as vice president. The two sides also addressed Beijing's tense relations with Taiwan, its large trade surplus with the United States and American concerns about human rights abuses in China.
 American officials also said they had held talks about China's encryption standards for wireless communications and its enforcement of intellectual property rights, among the top concerns of American companies that do business here. 
 Chinese leaders told Mr. Cheney that they planned to send Deputy Prime Minister Huang Ju to the United States later this year to discuss currency policy, another sore point in relations between the countries.
 The visit was the most extensive exchange between the Bush administration and top Chinese leaders since the Communist Party handed power to Mr. Hu in late 2002. Mr. Cheney first came to China with President Gerald R. Ford in 1975 but had not visited during the decade-long economic boom that transformed the economy and the urban contours of Beijing.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Cheney and Mr. Hu had two hours of talks over lunch in Zhongnanhai, the leadership compound. Mr. Cheney also met with Jiang Zemin, Mr. Hu's predecessor as president and Communist Party chief, who remains China's top military official. He discussed economic issues with Wen Jiabao, the prime minister.
 Vice President Zeng Qinghong, who is thought to exercise extensive influence behind the scenes in the ruling party, was Mr. Cheney's host for dinner Tuesday night at the Great Hall of the People.
 Before leaving Beijing for Shanghai on Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Cheney praised what he called the professionalism of the new leadership and talked of ''shared concerns and strategic interests.'' But he said ''it would be a mistake for us to underestimate the extent of the differences.''
 On North Korea, Mr. Cheney ''brought to the attention'' of Chinese leaders a report in The New York Times on Tuesday about the North's nuclear program, the senior official said. 
 That report quoted Bush administration and Asian officials as saying that Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani nuclear scientist who has acknowledged selling weapons technology around the world, claims to have seen three nuclear devices in North Korea five years ago.
 Chinese officials have raised doubts that the North, its neighbor and onetime ally, has working nuclear weapons. Beijing has cited faulty intelligence about Iraq's weapons as one reason that it is opposed to taking hasty action against North Korea.
 The senior Bush administration official implied that China, which exercises considerable influence over North Korea, needed to achieve a breakthrough in coming talks to forestall sanctions against the North. China is expected to convene a third round of negotiations by the end of June, and may set up a working group before then to search for common ground.
 China's main concern during Mr. Cheney's visit was Taiwan, which it claims as part of its territory, and the recent narrow re-election there of President Chen Shui-bian, whom Beijing views as determined to formally establish Taiwan as an independent nation. Mr. Cheney rejected a Chinese demand that Washington reduce its arms sales to Taiwan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CURRENCIES (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%) 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); HU JINTAO (79%); WEN JIABAO (56%) Joseph Kahn; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (79%) North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



338 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Alan Greenspan notwithstanding, a new book insists that government social spending does not stunt growth.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
IN widely reported comments before a Congressional committee in February, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, suggested that President Bush's tax cuts should not be even partly rescinded. Rather, Mr. Greenspan said, the nation should cut future domestic spending, including Social Security benefits, to balance the budget. Higher spending or higher taxes would deter economic growth, he warned. 
 The committee should have asked the statistically oriented chairman for the evidence. A comprehensive analysis by the economic historian Peter H. Lindert, published in a new book, ''Growing Public'' (Cambridge University Press), contends that there simply is none. His analysis is partly a broad extension of other studies by economists like Joel B. Slemrod of the University of Michigan, but he adds considerably to the argument. 
 Mr. Lindert is a professor at the University of California, Davis; former president of the Economic History Association; and an associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He has examined levels of taxes, public investment in education, transportation and health care, and social transfers like Social Security, and finds a stark contradiction between conventional wisdom and the evidence. ''It is well known that higher taxes and transfers reduce productivity,'' he writes. ''Well known -- but unsupported by statistics and history.''
 He compares the level of social spending over nine decades up to 2000 in 19 developed nations, including most of Western Europe, Japan, Australia, the United States and Canada. His analysis differs from many studies in part because he focuses on social programs, not overall government spending.
 He finds that high spending on such programs creates no statistically measurable deterrent to the growth of productivity or per capita gross domestic product. As many nations in Europe built welfare states after World War II, they continued to grow faster than the United States, a nation with low social spending. 
 For many people, this defies common sense. Higher taxes to support social programs surely deter investment or the willingness to work to some degree. As Mr. Lindert points out, estimates by some economists, like Martin Feldstein, a Harvard professor and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, find that extra government spending leads to a large reduction in gross domestic product. 
 In fact, taken literally, these studies suggest that the gross domestic product of Sweden, to take an example of a nation with heavy social spending, should have been reduced by up to 50 percent. But nothing remotely like that has happened. 
 The principal problem with such studies, Mr. Lindert writes, is that they are simulations of a highly simplified world. The economists recreate an economy where almost all incentives lead to slower growth, Mr. Lindert said, but that world does not exist. 
 Why, then, have high levels of social spending proved no deterrent to growth in the real world? Mr. Lindert has several explanations, some of them surprising. 
 First, he says, the tax systems of countries with high social spending are less antigrowth than is realized because nations in Scandinavia and Continental Europe typically derive so much tax revenue from regressive consumption taxes. In fact, these nations do not penalize profits and capital investment any more than the United States or Japan does, and possibly even less. 
 Mr. Lindert cannot be pigeonholed as a conservative or a liberal. He says he believes that less tax on capital will promote growth. But nations with high social spending typically tax alcohol, tobacco and gasoline highly, he notes, which contributes to better health and environmental quality. Healthier workers are more productive, and cleaner air requires fewer expensive environmental regulations.
 Second, he finds that social programs in nations with high welfare levels usually include everyone. Because benefits are generally not cut off as incomes grow, the disincentive to get jobs or invest is reduced. 
 But third, he finds, much of the public spending in these nations is also conducive to economic growth. Among such spending is that for education and health. Mr. Lindert argues firmly that under comprehensive public health programs, people are healthier and live longer, which also makes them more productive. He cites a study by the economist Zeynep Or for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that finds that in nations where a higher proportion of all health outlays are public, life spans are significantly increased.
 Mr. Lindert also contends that higher levels of government support for child care and requirements to re-employ women after maternity leave at the same job can enhance economic growth. Business considers such workers long-term employees and is likely to invest more in their training and place them on a faster track. Workers probably expend more time and effort on their long-term careers. 
 The statistical probability that some women will leave work creates a bias against all women. Ample government support apparently reduces this bias. The difference between pay for men and women is higher in the United States than in most of Europe, and is especially narrow in Sweden, which provides generous child support. 
 This summary does not do justice to Mr. Lindert's book. He also, for example, provides a valuable history of social spending and proposes a theory about why some nations spend more than others that is closely related to how well democracy works. This is a piece of research that is rich in insight and grounded in empirical evidence. There will be challenges. But the upshot is unmistakable. Government spending, if administered wisely, can have great value for everyone, including but not limited to the especially disadvantaged. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan has warned that more spending or higher taxes would deter growth. (Photo by Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HISTORY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jeff Madrick; Peter H Lindert; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



339 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Urges Bush to Share Responsibility With U.N. in Iraq

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry urged President Bush yesterday to share responsibility for Iraq with the United Nations, saying the administration's ''stubborn'' insistence on controlling the reconstruction there was costing Americans money and lives.
 ''We shouldn't only be tough, we have to be smart,'' Mr. Kerry said at a news conference in Harlem in which he directly responded to Mr. Bush's on Tuesday. ''And there's a smarter way to accomplish this mission than this president is pursuing.'' 
 Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush ought to ''just come out and say, 'I want the United Nations to be a full partner,' '' and offer to turn over civil authority in Iraq. 
 ''That's the argument right now,'' he said. ''Whether or not we're prepared to turn the authority over, whether they're prepared to come in without the authority. That's the fight. And the question is why the president won't do that.''
 Mr. Kerry asked why Lakhdar Brahimi, a United Nations special envoy, was charged only with handling the transition of government authority ''and not the reconstruction and not the full authority for the transformation of government.''
 Mr. Kerry was short on specifics, however, when asked what he would do were he president. Reminded that some countries appeared uninterested in becoming involved, he said, ''It may take a new president, then, in order to change the atmosphere.''
 He referred vaguely to the presidential ''power of persuasion.'' And he described the problem as a chicken-and-egg quandary, saying: ''Which comes first, European participation or stability? The worse it gets, the harder it gets to get what you need.''
 But again, when asked what he would offer European nations to enlist their help, Mr. Kerry said only that he would be ''personally deeply involved with the leaders of those countries'' and would work with Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations ''much more directly'' than Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Kerry spoke in the Great Hall of the City College of New York, where a short time earlier he found himself defending the president's stay-the-course approach in Iraq, insofar as both officials have made stability in Iraq a precondition for withdrawing American troops.
 In a town-hall-style meeting attended by more than 400 people, with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Charles B. Rangel beside him, Mr. Kerry came under attack from the left when a retired professor of mathematics, Walter Daum, questioned him on Iraq.
 ''You said, 'Stay the course,' but what the U.S. is doing is bombing hospitals, bombing mosques, killing hundreds of civilians,'' Mr. Daum, 64, said. ''Is that the criminal course you want to stay? It's an imperialist country fighting an imperialist war. At one time you opposed an imperialist war. I'm old enough to have done that myself.''
 Mr. Daum, who called himself a socialist, continued: ''People hate George Bush. But by the end of your presidency, people will hate you for the same thing.''
 As several people in the audience hooted in support, Mr. Kerry answered: ''I have consistently been critical of how we got where we are. But we are where we are, sir, and it would be unwise beyond belief for the United States of America to leave a failed Iraq in its wake. What we need to do is help transition to stability, that helps recognize people's rights. I'm sure you want to recognize people's rights.''
 ''I want the Americans out!'' Mr. Daum shouted.
 ''Yes, and I want the Americans out ---- '' Mr. Kerry started.
 ''No you don't, you say, 'Stay the course'!'' Mr. Daum shouted again.
 ''Stay the course of leaving a stable Iraq,'' Mr. Kerry said, finally winning a round of applause.
 Though he was addressing a room full of college students, Mr. Kerry barely mentioned his plan for full four-year state college scholarships for 200,000 students who perform public service.
 His campaign released a proposal on paying for the scholarships, which it estimates would cost $13 billion over 10 years. The campaign said Mr. Kerry would save $12 billion by changing a law that guarantees what critics call excessive profits for banks that make federally guaranteed student loans. The profits come from a spread between the rates charged to students and the rates the banks receive from the government. The plan would make banks bid to reach the lowest rates. The two rates are now set by law at a fixed amount above fluctuating interest rates.
 Jonathan Gruber, a former Treasury Department official who is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said that he wrote a report in 1998 arguing that banks were making excessive profits, but that Congress cut the rate for students 80 basis points while reducing the bank rate 30 basis points, effectively widening profit margins.
 ''You can think of this as Congress's paying banks to make very profitable government-guaranteed loans,'' Professor Gruber said, adding that although the subsidy was widely criticized, ''no one wants to take on the banks.''
 Mr. Kerry closed out his day in New York by raising money. His campaign said that a gala at the Sheraton New York raised $6 million and that another at a nightclub, Crobar, brought in $500,000. The campaign said the total was a one-day record for New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); RELIGION (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Lakhdar Brahimi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



340 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: ALLIES

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Is Wary but Firm on Iraq

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 12 

 BODY:
At the entrance of a mock military base not far from here, the barricades are painted with slogans like ''Perfect Check Search'' and ''Deadly Force 100% ID Check.'' Barbed wire surrounds the camp, as well as a handful of artificial palm trees dangling green plastic coconuts.
 An Iraqi flag is flanked by the words, written in Korean, ''Peace and Reconstruction.''
 ''Salaam alaikum,'' a Korean guard says to greets a visitor to the base, and asks several other questions in rapid-fire Arabic. The amicable exchange is followed quickly by a staged terrorist attack. 
 The soldiers training at the camp, in Kwangju outside the capital, will be part of the 3,000 troops Seoul is expected to send to Iraq by June. Those soldiers, on top of about 600 already in Iraq, will make South Korea's the third-largest national force in Iraq, after the United States and Britain, and will amount to this country's biggest military expedition since the Vietnam War.
 As Vice President Dick Cheney prepares to visit here Thursday, the last stop of his East Asia tour, the government reiterated its intention to send the additional troops. South Koreans, already divided over that decision, have voiced stronger reservations recently as fighting in Iraq has worsened. Adding to their concerns, seven South Korean missionaries were kidnapped and briefly detained last week.
 Ban Ki Moon, the foreign minister, told reporters here on Monday that he foresaw no possibility of a change in ''the immediate goal or purpose of our dispatch,'' which he said was ''the rehabilitation of Iraq.''
 In Tokyo, Mr. Cheney also encountered a population increasingly jittery about Japan's presence in Iraq, as Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi rejected calls to withdraw troops by relatives of the three Japanese citizens also kidnapped last week in Iraq. But Mr. Cheney will arrive in Seoul against the backdrop of parliamentary elections on Thursday.
 With South Korea's two main parties behind the deployment, smaller opposing parties could benefit. Even officials from the pro-government Uri Party, which is considered the leading party and which backed the deployment, express worries.
 ''We have to closely and prudently observe whether the situation is a new chapter or if it is going to become a second Vietnam,'' Kim Keun Tae, an Uri leader, said.
 A military survey team left here on Friday to assess two potential deployment sites, Sulaimaniya and Erbil, in the Kurdish areas in northern Iraq. The team is to return here on Sunday, after which the government will ''move quickly'' to decide between the locations, said Wi Sung Lac, senior policy coordinator for the National Security Council, who has been involved in negotiations with United States officials.
 The troops had originally been scheduled to head to Kirkuk this month. But that plan was abandoned, Mr. Wi said, because the deteriorating situation there would have required them to work under an American command and possibly take part in combat operations -- both not allowed under the National Assembly law authorizing the deployment. 
 So with the extra time, soldiers have been training rigorously. With the prospect of bonuses of $1,800 to $3,200, several thousand volunteered.
 Arabic is studied up to two hours a day, and a sentence a day is posted around the camp. Cooks have been making local dishes.
 Maj. Gen. Hwang Eui Don, who will command the troops in Iraq, said the deployment would be historic.
 ''Fifty years ago, during the Korean War, allied forces led by America fought for us, and thanks to them our country has now become an economic power,'' he said. ''Because we received help from the allied forces, it is now our turn to contribute.''
 From 1965 to 1973, 312,853 South Koreans fought in Vietnam, and some 5,000 were killed. Although the force in Iraq will be smaller and not expected to engage in combat, it will be far more independent, General Hwang said. 
 ''In Vietnam, the United States paid for everything -- our transportation, food, equipment, even our salaries,'' he said. ''Iraq will be completely an operation by the Republic of Korea.''
 Back then, South Korea was a poor country, fiercely anti-Communist and pro-American. Its leaders were willing to send young men to war, partly because of the positive economic spinoffs, said Han Hong Koo, 44, a historian.
 Today, the people of a more confident South Korea, with the world's 12th-largest economy, are voicing fears that their support of the United States will again mean more suffering for this country. The support for deployment tends to be divided, like many things here, along generational lines.
 ''We received support from the United States in the past, but supporting it unconditionally is problematic,'' said Min Hee Young, 29, who works in the publishing industry. ''The relationship between Korea and the U.S. should be one between friends who can advise each other in the right direction. To go along with a friend when he is going in the wrong direction is not right.''
 For Yang Su Shirk, a 70-year-old Vietnam veteran, the relationship with the United States is ''a blood pledge.''
 ''They helped us during the Korean War,'' Mr. Yang said, adding: ''There are concerns that Iraq may become the second Vietnam. However, all possibilities exist in war. We can't always expect the situation to be on our side. We should come to terms with the risks involved and overcome them as they appear.''<M03,20,40,20> --------------------

Iraq Worries Philippine Leader	 (By The New York Times), MANILA, April 14 -- The Philippine president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, said on Wednesday that she might withdraw her nation's contingent of about 50 soldiers and policemen from Iraq if the situation there continues to deteriorate.
 Mrs. Arroyo is campaigning for re-election and her comments were seen as reflecting domestic politics more than an a serious possibility.


GRAPHIC: Photo: South Korean troops are training for their mission to Iraq at a mock base outside of Seoul, complete with barbed wire and the South Korean and Iraqi flags. South Korea expects to have 3,000 troops in Iraq by June. (Photo by Seokyong Lee/World Picture News, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); ELECTIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); TERRORISM (55%) 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (78%); BAN KI-MOON (56%) Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); KWANGJU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAQ (97%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) Iraq; South Korea ; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



341 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6; THE MIDEAST TURMOIL

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: For Bush and Sharon, 'Confidence' and 'Realities' Are Crucial

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference on Wednesday by President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House, a private transcription service: 

PRESIDENT BUSH -- In an exchange of letters today and in a statement I will release later today, I am repeating to the prime minister my commitment to Israel's security. The United States will not prejudice the outcome of final status negotiations. That matter is for the parties.
 But the realities on the ground and in the region have changed greatly over the last several decades. And any final settlement must take into account those realities and be agreeable to the parties. 
 The goal of two independent states has repeatedly been recognized in international resolutions and agreements. And it remains the key to resolving this conflict. The United States is strongly committed to Israel's security and well-being as a Jewish state. 
 It seems clear that an agreed, just, fair and realistic framework for a solution to the Palestinian refugee issue as part of any final status agreement will need to be found through the establishment of a Palestinian state and the settling of Palestinian refugees there rather than Israel. 
 As part of a final peace settlement, Israel must have secure and recognized borders, which should emerge from negotiations between the parties in accordance with U.N. Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. 
 In light of new realities on the ground, including already existing major Israeli population centers, it is unrealistic that the outcome of final status negotiations will be a full and complete return to the armistice lines of 1949, and all previous efforts to negotiate a two-state solution have reached the same conclusion. It is realistic to expect that any final status agreement will only be achieved on the basis of mutually agreed changes that reflect these realities. . . .

PRIME MINISTER SHARON -- . . . In our meeting today, I presented to you the outlines of my disengagement plan. It will improve Israel's security and economy and will reduce friction and tension between Israelis and Palestinians. My plan will create a new and better reality for the State of Israel. And it also has the potential to create the right conditions to resume negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.
 I was encouraged by your positive response and your support for my plan. In that context, you handed me a letter that includes very important statements regarding Israel's security and its well-being as a Jewish state. You have proven, Mr. President, your ongoing deep and sincere friendship to the State of Israel and to the Jewish people. 
 I believe that my plan can be an important contribution to advancing your vision, which is the only viable way to achieve the peace and security in the Middle East. . . . 

Q. -- Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to go back to your opening statement and ask you, does the United States recognize Israel's right to retain some Jewish settlements in the West Bank? And if so, how does that fit with the U.S. policy that settlements are an obstacle to peace?

PRESIDENT BUSH -- First, let us recognize that the prime minister has made the decision to dismantle some settlements. In other words, he is beginning to implement a vision that allows for contiguous territory so that a Palestinian state can emerge. . . .
 It is very important for a Palestinian state to emerge in which we have confidence, in which any prime minister of Israel has confidence, in which the United States has confidence, that will be a peaceful partner. And so what the prime minister has done is, he's started the process of removing settlements from the West Bank. 
 Your question to me is about the final status agreements. I said that the conditions on the ground have changed over time and, obviously, that must be recognized during any final status negotiations. 
 You know, I look forward to the moment when we're actually discussing final status negotiations. There's a lot of work to be done prior to getting there. And what the prime minister has done has started the process. And now it's up for responsible Palestinians, caring Europeans, Americans, the United Nations, to step in and help develop such a state that will be a peaceful state, one in which money will actually end up helping the people of the Palestinian -- Palestinians -- to be able to grow their businesses and grow their -- find wealth for their families. 
 And then we can worry about the final status negotiations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); REFUGEES (74%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%) George W (Pres) Bush; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; West Bank

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



342 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Cement Maker With a Worldview

BYLINE: By JOHN MOODY

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico 

 BODY:
Lorenzo Zambrano seems to be one of the few global chief executives not rushing into China -- at least not yet.
 Such caution is uncharacteristic for Mr. Zambrano, the man who built Cemex of Mexico into the world's third-largest cement company by snapping up companies from Colombia to Egypt, and on to Indonesia. But the Chinese market, he says, is unattractive.
 ''The industry isn't profitable'' there, he said, citing governmental factors like informal price controls and a tax system that he says is designed to suck up profits. 
 Since 1985, when Mr. Zambrano became chief executive of the company his grandfather founded, he has turned Cemex from a provincial cement company into the country's first home-grown multinational, with operations in 30 countries on five continents. His first major foray abroad came in 1992 when he bought two Spanish cement companies, saddling Cemex with debt that analysts said would sink the company.
 Mr. Zambrano, who recently turned 60, dismisses Wall Street's concern about Cemex's debt, calling analysts ''napkin scribblers.'' He has continued to borrow to expand.
 He borrowed to buy the Houston-based cement maker Southdown Inc. for $2.6 billion in 2001, a deal that made Cemex the largest cement producer in the United States but increased the company's debt to $6 billion, an amount nearly equal to Cemex's annual sales. By the end of last year, the debt dropped to $5.6 billion, or four-fifths of annual sales of $7.16 billion, sales that represented a 9 percent rise from the previous year as the company benefited from the economic recovery in America and Mexico.
 A dapper man with a big appetite for risk and the courtly manners of his Spanish forebears, Mr. Zambrano learned the cement business from the ground up.
 He arrived at Cemex with a Stanford M.B.A. degree and was promptly sent off to distant plants, including one built on a clay pit that is known as the company's Siberia. There, he fired half the staff and pushed through a year's worth of production in six months.
 After 18 years of toiling in the hinterlands, his performance, along with his family's large -- but undisclosed -- stake, got him the top job, though he did have to win over some dissenting board members.
 He pumped the company's spare cash into the local stock market, without telling the board. ''Once I had made $80 million, I could tell them,'' Mr. Zambrano said with a grin during an interview at his glass and steel headquarters here in this northern industrial city.
 He used the earnings to buy two Mexican cement companies, almost doubling Cemex's size and setting the stage for global expansion. He also refocused the company narrowly on cement, dumping stakes in hotels and chemicals, and turned to a pet obsession that was to become part of the company's image: high-tech gadgetry and innovation.
 His growth strategy has been to acquire, follow that with a period of calm in which the acquired entity is integrated and the debt starts to be paid off, and follow that by a lunge into a new market.
 Right now, ''Cemex is doing a lot of housekeeping,'' said Carlos Perezalonso, an analyst at BBVA-Bancomer in Mexico City. ''The market is grateful it isn't taking risks in a time of uncertainty.''
 It has been Mr. Zambrano's expansion into regions that other Mexican companies will not touch that has set Cemex apart. Cemex, Mr. Zambrano said, must either grow or be swallowed up in a globalizing economy and a consolidating industry.
 The expansion does not always go smoothly. 
 ''The company has a tendency to reach far beyond its home base, which is not an easy thing,'' said Arjun Divecha, an equity manager at the GMO Emerging Markets Fund based in Berkeley, Calif., which invests in Cemex.
 Cemex's most pressing problem at the moment is in Indonesia. Local protests over foreign ownership have led the Indonesian government to renege on an agreement to sell to Cemex control of the cement maker PT Semen Gresik; Cemex has already spent $300 million for a 25 percent stake.
 This stumble has made Cemex more cautious, Mr. Zambrano admitted.
 Still, he loves a good challenge, as his hobby of racing his 1950's Ferraris shows.
 ''Modern cars lack character,'' Mr. Zambrano said. ''I have very fast modern cars, but anyone can drive them, a housewife could drive them.''
 Outside the racetrack and a fondness for contemporary Mexican art, Mr. Zambrano, a bachelor, admits Cemex is his life. And though technology bores him in a car, he likes it in his company.
 When he took over in 1985, he installed expensive satellite equipment to give him an instant picture of how all the plants were doing.
 ''When Lorenzo calls, if the plant manager doesn't know what is going on, well, that's not good,'' said Hector Medina, the company's planning and strategy director.
 More recently, technology helped Mr. Zambrano win over his new American employees at Southdown. ''They were very nervous, a lot of the gringos at the facilities, but they've adjusted,'' said Steven Prokopy, editor of Cement Americas, a Chicago-based trade journal. ''What they like is that Cemex has money to spend on upgrades and technology.''
 Cemex's search for an edge has kept it ahead of competitors, said James L. Heskett, a Harvard Business School professor. The company, he said, has a novel approach to customer service in an industry known more for its sweat-stained engineers. For instance, it studied the 911 dispatcher's office in Houston and then set up a similar system to provide more flexible delivery. The result was less wasted cement and better service to customers, enabling Cemex to charge them more.
 Other innovations include a program that lets Mexican migrants in the United States pay for cement that their relatives back home can pick up at a store near them and use to build houses.
 Mr. Zambrano, a billionaire, is also frugal. Until recently he lived in an apartment so small he had to store valuable works of art in boxes. And when his company buys a company, the first thing it does is cut costs.
 One new way to do so came from the purchase of one of the Spanish companies, Valenciana, whose engineers had developed a way to burn petroleum coke, a cheap waste product. Mr. Zambrano converted other Cemex plants to petroleum coke and was able to save on energy, a component that accounts for 40 percent of the cost of making cement, the company said.
 Despite the global expansion, the home market, where Cemex has a 55 percent share, is still its most important. Mexico contributed 70 percent of the company's profits last year, though it accounted for just 37 percent of sales.
 Such figures have brought media reports of price gouging. And a bag of cement in Harlingen, Tex., for instance, in the more competitive United States market, does cost 22 percent less than a bag just across the border in Matamoros.
 Cemex executives say that in Mexico a higher proportion of cement is sold to individual home builders in sacks, a retail operation with higher margins.
 The Mexican competition authorities have said they see nothing wrong with Cemex's pricing policies. Other cement companies also do well in Latin America. Holcim Ltd. of Switzerland, the world's largest, has a profit margin of 27 percent in Latin America but just 15.3 percent over all. The margin for No.2, the Paris-based Lafarge S.A., is 39.4 percent in Latin America but only 14.2 percent over all.
 Mr. Zambrano bristles at the criticism that his company engages in price-gouging in his own country, and he would clearly rather talk about other things. 
 Like China? Or maybe India?
 ''We're prepared if there is an opportunity,'' Mr. Zambrano said with a grin.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lorenzo Zambrano, the chief of Cemex, has aggressively acquired other companies, but is cautious about jumping into China. (Photo by Cemex)(pg. W1)
 A Cemex plant in Monterrey, Mexico, one of many the big Mexican cement maker owns around the world. (Photo by Cemex SA via Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMENT MFG (93%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%) Cement; International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Company and Organization Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation

COMPANY: CEMEX SAB DE CV (92%); SOUTHDOWN INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Cemex (Mexican Co)

TICKER: CX (NYSE) (92%); CEMEX (BMV) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL MINING (92%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (92%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (68%)

PERSON: John Moody

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EGYPT (88%) Mexico; China

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004



343 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: With Bid, Continental Looks To Expand in South America

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, April 15 

 BODY:
Continental Airlines and its partner in Panama have made an offer to buy Colombia's financially troubled airline, Avianca, which, if approved, would expand Continental's already long reach into Latin America.
 Neither Continental, which is based in Houston, nor its partner, Copa Airlines, offered details on Thursday about the bid to purchase Avianca, which began flying in 1919 and offers 300 flights a day, including service to Madrid and Kennedy International Airport in New York. Avianca, short for Aerovias Nacionales de Colombia, is the world's second-oldest airline.
 The bid appears to provide more money for Avianca than was offered by Brazil's Grupo Sinergy, which in March announced that it would inject $64 million into Avianca and assume its $300 million debt as part of a takeover. 
 ''We are not going to make a counteroffer for Avianca,'' German Efromovich, the Brazilian entrepreneur who controls Grupo Sinergy, told reporters. ''The offer that we made was the last one.''
 The proposed purchase underscores a trend in the Latin American airline industry: the consolidation of weaker airlines or government-run airlines by larger, more financially stable carriers, like LanChile in South America or Taca in Central America.
 ''As carriers have become public, instead of government entities, that consolidation has begun,'' said Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline analyst in Port Washington, N.Y.
 Avianca and its subsidiary airline, SAM, filed for bankruptcy protection in New York in March of last year. The company has been battered by the drop-off in travel after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 and skyrocketing fuel costs, though it had fallen on hard times long before the recent regional downturn in air travel.
 Avianca, though, is seen by aviation analysts as well-positioned for a recovery. 
 The airline's hub in Bogota, which has undergone improvements recently, is in the middle of Latin America, making it a gateway into South America. Avianca also controls most of Colombia's market, flying its 41 planes to 18 cities in this country of 40 million and to 16 cities abroad, including Miami and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., according to Avianca's Web site.
 ''Avianca has a bright future ahead and should survive to be a hundred in the next couple of decades,'' Bob Booth, an aviation analyst in Florida, wrote in his newsletter, AVNews.
 Avianca would also be helped if Colombia's economy grows at 4 to 5 percent this year, as some economists and government officials have predicted. American carriers increasingly see Latin America as an opportunity for growth this year, as the economies of Argentina, Colombia, Peru and Venezuela continue stabilizing.
 Continental's chief executive, Gordon M. Bethune, said Thursday in a conference call that the deal, if it goes through, would better position Continental in a region where it has focused much of its growth in recent years.
 Mr. Bethune explained that it was Copa that was making the offer for Avianca, though he said that Continental is supporting the venture. Continental owns 49 percent of Copa, which was founded in 1947 and owns 21 Boeing 737 airliners that fly to 20 countries.
 ''It appears that they are going to use Copa as their proxy for acquisitions in the region,'' Mr. Mann said. The rest of the company is owned by Grupo Motta, a Panamanian conglomerate.
 Continental, the fifth-largest airline in the United States, flies to 117 international destinations. On Thursday, the airline reported first-quarter net losses of $124 million, an improvement over first-quarter losses in 2003.
 The latest offer to purchase Avianca has the support of Colombia's pilots union, whose president, Alberto Padilla, is part of a committee that is trying to renegotiate Avianca's debt. The United States Bankruptcy Court in New York must approve any sale and its terms.
 Arturo Salazar, vice president of the pilots union, told the Bogota newspaper, El Tiempo, that the latest offer gives more security to Avianca's 5,184 employees while offering stockholders more guarantees that the airline's debt will be absorbed.
 In a statement issued Wednesday, Copa said that under the offer, Avianca would continue to operate as an independent airline.
 Avianca is owned by National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia and by Valores Bavaria, a private conglomerate owned by Colombia's powerful Santo Domingo family. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TRENDS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); DIVESTITURES (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); AEROVIAS DEL CONTINENTE AMERICANO SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Continental Airlines; Copa Airlines; Avianca Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

PERSON: Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); PANAMA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); PERU (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Panama; Colombia

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



344 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.B.M. Reports Increase In Earnings and Sales
I.B.M., the world's largest computer company, reported solid growth in quarterly sales and earnings in a further sign that spending on information technology is improving.
 Businesses are finally loosening their purse strings and spending on computer technology, but the pickup appears to be a cautious one. The I.B.M. results, analyst say, indicate that corporate customers are mostly replacing and upgrading older machines and software rather than investing in many ambitious new technology projects. [Page C3.]

Sun Microsystems reported a decline in revenues for the twelfth consecutive quarter and a larger-than-expected loss. [C3.]

PepsiCo said its first-quarter earnings rose 15 percent while revenue rose 11 percent. [C3.]

Air Rivalry Grows in Philadelphia
Southwest Airlines said it was looking at adding another wave of flights at Philadelphia International Airport, where it plans to begin service next month, and said the city could become one of its major destinations. The announcement about the airport, which is a major hub for US Airways, highlights the continued heated competition between major airlines and low-fare carriers. [C4.]

Continental Airlines and its partner in Panama have made an offer to purchase Colombia's financially troubled airline, Avianca. [World Business, Section W.]

Taxpayers' Names Are Disclosed
The two taxpayers who sued unsuccessfully to keep the accounting firm KPMG from disclosing their names to the I.R.S. in relation to an abusive tax shelter are the top executive of a mutual fund company and a retired colleague, according to court documents. [C4.]

Dow and S.&P. Rise as Nasdaq Falls
The Dow Jones industrial average added 19.51 points, to close at 10,397.46. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.67 points, to 1,128.84. The Nasdaq dropped 22.68 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2002.17. Financial company shares fell on interest rate fears. [C5.]

Weekly Jobless Claims Increase
Weekly initial applications for unemployment benefits showed the largest increase in more than a year. [C5.]

Predicting the Fate of Yukos Shares
Investors have begun to contemplate a once far-fetched outcome to the ''Yukos affair'': that the shares in Yukos Oil held by the company's founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, left, and his business associate, Platon L. Lebedev, may land in government hands if the two are convicted on charges of fraud, embezzlement and tax evasion. Both men are in jail awaiting trial. [World Business, Section W.]

Jurors Chosen for Quattrone Trial
Twelve jurors have been picked for the retrial of Frank P. Quattrone, the former Credit Suisse First Boston investment banker. Opening arguments are set to begin today. [C9.]

Former Adelphia Employee Testifies
Adelphia Communications issued a number of false financial statements by inflating its subscriber numbers, the company's former director of investor relations testified. [C5.]

Anheuser-Busch Reconsiders Ads
Anheuser-Busch is rethinking its advertising campaigns for beer brands like Bud Light and Budweiser. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,397.46 up 19.51Nasdaq composite -- 2,002.17 down 22.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.40% up 0.03The euro -- $1.1982 up 0.0027The dollar -- 108.36 yen down 0.52Graph: ''TODAY'' shows housing construction figures since Sept. 2003.March figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +2.4%Graph: ''TODAY'' shows industrial production figures since Sept. 2003.March figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph shows Southwest Airlines share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); JURY TRIALS (86%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); AIR SERVICE (74%); AIR FARES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); EMBEZZLEMENT (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KPMG (82%); OAO NK YUKOS (81%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); PEPSICO INC (56%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); TIME WARNER INC (50%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (56%); UAL (NYSE) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (55%); TWX (NYSE) (50%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



345 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; Bogota Journal

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: For Colombia's Angry Youth, Hip-Hop Helps Keep It Real

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, April 7 

 BODY:
In the living room of their mother's modest cinderblock home, beneath the glare of two bare light bulbs, the Rodriguez brothers, Juan Emilio and Andrey, whirled into action, arms swinging, as they burst into a rap about Colombia's drug-fueled guerrilla war. 
 ''Blood in the fields, colonized lands, invisible bonds of slavery, in the Amazon,'' they sang in rhyming Spanish in ''Criminal Hands,'' a song about Washington's war on drugs.
 In another, ''Exodus,'' about the refugees who have fled Colombia's civil conflict, they say, ''as the war advances, there's only a ticket out.''
 ''The exodus continues, burden of the violence,'' they chant, ''The war is uncertain, incomprehensible, absurd science.'' 
 Juan Emilio and Andrey, rappers in a threesome called Cescru Enlace, are hardly household names. But they have released two CD's, their first in 1999, and their politically charged songs are catching on among young Colombians. 
 Today rap is produced and heard virtually the world over, as young people nearly everywhere mimic the lyrical styles and fashion of America's hottest selling music. Rap has spread across the Spanish-speaking world, too, but in few other countries are rappers as political in their lyrics as they are in Colombia.
 ''They've become like poet reporters for their neighborhoods,'' said Ruth Kathryn Henry, who studied Colombian hip-hop as a Fulbright scholar. ''They're speaking for the people around them who don't necessarily have a voice.''
 They have seized on rap to vent about a world filled with Marxist rebels, right-wing death squads, poverty and a greedy elite -- the kind of material rappers elsewhere could only dream of. 
 ''Here in Colombia, there is so much to say,'' said Kany, 33, the leader of one of Colombia's oldest rap groups, La Etnnia, which translates roughly as the Ethnics. ''You go out and you find inspiration. You do not need to go out and make things up.''
 Though their style is sometimes comically imitative of American artists, Colombia's rappers take special pride in the authenticity of their adopted art, to the point of professing disdain for their more famous counterparts to the north, who they say have sold out to get big record deals. 
 ''This is real rap, not fake,'' said Juan Emilio Rodriguez, Cescru Enlace's 30-something leader, who goes by the name 3X. ''It is contrarian. It is political. It is not about cars and women. They do not do this in the U.S. anymore. We are doing it.'' 
 Rap has not quite reached the mainstream here but is part of a diverse Colombian music scene that has come to dominate in Latin America. Juanes, the mournful rocker, won five Latin Grammys last year. The music of Carlos Vives, known for its jubilant accordion-laced vallenato songs, is spreading across borders. And the swivel-hipped singer Shakira has become one of the most successful Latin American crossover artists in recent years.
 But increasingly, rap is what young Colombians want to hear. What they see as hip-hop culture, with its baggy jeans and big jewelry, is high urban fashion. Rap has taken over at parties where salsa or boleros once ruled. Even major radio stations are offering hip-hop oriented shows. 
 ''I like the rhythm, the beat, the boom, boom, boom,'' said Waira Zamora, 19, a university student. ''I can listen to rap all night long.'' 
 The biggest sellers remain Americans, artists like 50 Cent and the group NWA. Some American rappers, like Eminem, have had phenomenal success here, selling even more albums than better-known stars of more traditional popular music, like cumbia.
 Colombian hip-hop artists, whose music is frequently suffused with anger against their government or the United States, have so far ignored the big record labels and made their own CDs, selling them at neighborhood record shops or sprawling street markets. But the musical establishment is taking notice.
 ''This has been an underground movement for a while, and now it is surfacing,'' said Maria Isabel Ramirez, who markets rap in Colombia for Universal Records and is working on a compilation of 14 local rap groups.
 A city-financed rap festival has blossomed, attracting thousands of fans. In Bogota's colonial center, a group of rappers has even started a hip-hop cultural center, founded with the help of a European cultural group, which offers classes in music mixing, break dancing and spraying graffiti.
 But rappers who have come out of neighborhoods like Las Cruces, a collection of ramshackle colonial homes, dark passageways and narrow streets near the presidential palace, learned on the streets. 
 The Pimienta brothers, rap lore has it, became the first rappers in Bogota, in the 1980's, after hip-hop and American urban culture began to surface in Las Cruces, founding La Etnnia.
 The possibility of telling lyrical stories about poverty-stricken lives made rap instantly popular with young people who felt they never had an outlet.
 Kany, the leader of La Etnnia, said the group simply sings about the lives people lead. ''We were in a ghetto and we started singing about what we saw happening,'' he said. ''The streets are full of stories and we are like chroniclers.''
 Still, while the rappers here style themselves after American gangsta rappers, Colombian rap is more about braggadocio than bullets. Even the street poets of Cescru Enlace live like most Colombian young people -- with their elders. 
 Andrey Rodriguez, 26, of Cescru Enlace, goes by the name Batalla, or Battle. He has the swagger, the big jeans and the skull cap, and his music reflects the violent, chaotic country in which he lives. But he still rubbed his grandmother's hair as he said goodbye after rehearsal on a recent day. 
 ''You see things and you say to yourself, 'These are things I can sing about,''' he said. ''We try to just keep the rap real, always keep it real.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leidy Rodriguez, left, and Jose Giovanny Triana Pira, center, study graffiti art at a cultural center that offers classes in break dancing, too.
 Juan Emilio Rodriguez, right, and his brother, Andrey, left, of the rap group Cescru Enlace, practice at their mother's home in Bogota. ''This is real rap, not fake,'' Juan Emilio said. ''It is contrarian. It is political.'' (Photographs by Meredith Davenport for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (91%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); REFUGEES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); DRUG POLICY (72%); SLAVERY (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); POLITICS (67%); WRITERS (64%); ETHICS (63%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Ethics; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Music; Rap Music

PERSON: Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Colombia; Colombia

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



346 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Net Is a Record $5.27 Billion For Quarter

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Citigroup, the country's biggest financial services firm, reported record quarterly profits of $5.27 billion yesterday, but investors drove down the company's shares on lingering fears that an interest rate increase might sideswipe the bank and its competitors in coming months.
 The shares of financial services firms have been pummeled this week because investors fear rising rates may mean lower profits for banks and other companies that lend, borrow and manage money. Over the last five days, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange KBW bank index, made up of 24 leading national and regional bank stocks, has fallen about 4.4 percent.
 But analysts said that in the case of Citigroup, interest rate fears were overblown. They say the bank is well prepared for rate increases and that, absent extreme inflationary pressures that would cause unexpectedly large rate spikes, Citigroup should benefit from a rebounding economy. And Citigroup, which offers a broad mix of consumer and commercial services in 100 countries, is not a typical bank. 
 ''There are lots of things you can nitpick and quibble with in Citi's earnings this quarter, but none of them are really consequential,'' said Guy Moszkowski, an equity analyst with Merrill Lynch. ''But this is all rationality talking. Most investors always have interest rates in the back of their minds with financials and will toss the stocks out and ask questions later.''
 Citigroup's earnings rose to $5.27 billion, or $1.01 a share, from $4.1 billion, or 79 cents a share, in the first quarter last year. Few companies in any industry post quarterly earnings that formidable in size. Citigroup's profits were nearly twice those of its next-largest commercial banking rival, the Bank of America Corporation, and exceeded the combined profits of several of its largest competitors in investment banking. 
 Citigroup's results included an after-tax gain of $180 million, or about 3 cents a share, on the sale of a portion of its electronic funds services business. 
 Still, shares of Citigroup fell $1.03, or about 2 percent, to $49.92 yesterday. Since Monday, the bank's shares have fallen about 4 percent.
 ''Citi's firing on most cylinders right now,'' said Tanya Azarchs, an analyst with Standard & Poor's. ''They definitely are in a class by themselves in terms of the size of the organization and its diversity.''
 During the quarter, Citigroup posted double-digit income growth in each of its nine major product areas and in all its geographic regions. The bank provides products and services that include credit cards, mortgage loans, retail banking, brokerage services, equity underwriting and corporate lending.
 Todd S. Thomson, chief financial officer of Citigroup, said in an interview that he was ''mystified'' at the stock market's focus on interest rate fears. He noted that 40 percent of the bank's income comes from outside the United States, making it less exposed than other banks to the domestic interest rate environment, and that half of Citigroup's revenue comes from fee-based services, making it much less dependent on the old bread-and-butter banking business of pocketing the interest rate spread between loans and deposits.
 Mr. Thomson also said that Citigroup was upbeat about global economic improvements and that benefits from a rebound in the domestic economy will offset any troubles associated with rising interest rates.
 ''If interest rates are rising because the economy is improving, that means more retail sales, more employment, better credit costs on the consumer side, and more activity on the corporate side, all of which is good for us,'' Mr. Thomson said. ''The revenue that will provide our company will more than outweigh short-term negative interest rate increases.''
 Others agreed.
 ''I think investors are being myopic because I don't think interest rates are a big issue for them,'' said Steven Wharton, an analyst with Loomis Sayles & Company.
 A measure of the bank's optimism is that it lowered its corporate loan-loss reserve by $150 million in the quarter and expects to lower reserves further in the future. The total loan-loss reserve stands at $4 billion, a reflection of the major credit losses banks suffered in recent years because of ill-advised or ill-timed loans to corporate borrowers.
 Citigroup's first quarter was distinguished by strong improvements in its overseas units. Trouble spots abroad, particularly Japan and Argentina, have become less of a problem, and broader economic and business gains in Asia and the Middle East also helped the bottom line.
 Revenue in the quarter was $21.5 billion, up 16 percent from the period last year, fueled in large part by a consumer business that Ms. Azarchs said was ''cranking along at an accelerating pace.'' The consumer business had profits of about $2.6 billion in the quarter, while the corporate business posted earnings of $1.7 billion. Private client services and investment-management activities kicked in the bulk of the quarter's remaining profits.
 The bank's robust finances have not satisfied some large investors, including two large state pension funds in California and New York that plan to make an issue of Citigroup's corporate governance policies at the bank's annual meeting next Tuesday. The funds are opposing the re-election of Sanford I. Weill, Citigroup's chairman, and Charles O. Prince, its chief executive, to the board. The funds have expressed concern about Mr. Weill's role in past problems at the bank and have raised questions about Mr. Prince's ability to bring an objective eye to board matters. Citigroup disputed the criticisms in public statements this week. 
 For his part, Mr. Prince stayed focused on the bottom line yesterday.
 ''Citigroup's record first-quarter performance demonstrates our unique ability to capitalize on the continued strengthening of the global economy,'' he said in a statement. ''Our results reflect a focus on increasing customer volumes while maintaining expense discipline and improving credit performance.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); INFLATION (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%) Company Reports ; Records and Achievements; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

PERSON: Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



347 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Filings Increase for Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing initial applications for jobless benefits rose to 360,000 last week, a 30,000 rise that was the biggest in more than a year, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
 New claims had fallen to a three-year low of 330,000 the previous week and have averaged 351,000 this year, down from 402,100 for all of 2003. 
The department said applications tend to be unusually volatile during the first week of a quarter and the Easter holidays, which coincided.
 While dismissals have slowed and employment has picked up, companies are still shedding workers to reduce costs and to raise profits. The prospect of increased borrowing costs and the diminishing effect of tax refunds heighten the importance of job growth to buttress consumer spending, economists said.
 The four-week average of claims, a less-volatile indicator, rose to 344,250, from 337,500 the previous week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EASTER SEASON (54%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



348 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Region's Air Doesn't Meet New Standards

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Most of the people who live in New York State and all the residents of New Jersey and Connecticut are breathing air that does not meet new federal health standards for smog, according to a report released yesterday by federal environmental officials. The pollution is a combination of dirty emissions produced in the states themselves and contaminants that float in on air coming from the Midwest and central Canada. 
 As a result, state and county officials across the three states must now prepare plans for reducing the most serious air pollutant, ground-level ozone, which is produced by cars, power plants and factories, and which causes respiratory problems and makes asthma worse.
 Officials say they are considering toughening automobile emissions inspections and increasing the use of specially formulated gasoline during the summer, when the ozone problem is most severe. Failure to meet the new, stricter standards could have economic consequences, including the loss of federal highway money or the inability to get approval for new manufacturing and other business developments. 
 Officials of all three states have long made federal officials aware of their concern about pollution drifting in from the Midwest, and yesterday Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey placed blame for the situation with the Bush administration. 
 ''The Bush administration's lack of leadership and its failure to stop polluters, especially in the Midwest, continues to damage New Jersey's air quality,'' Mr. McGreevey, a Democrat, said in a statement.
 Gov. George E. Pataki of New York did not directly criticize the Bush administration but called on Washington to get tough with Midwest polluters. ''Our ultimate goal must be to enact measures across the nation that will make certain Midwestern sources of pollution are reduced,'' Mr. Pataki, a Republican, said in a statement. 
 In all, the federal Environmental Protection Agency notified 31 governors yesterday that their states had failed to meet the new ozone standards. New Jersey and Connecticut were among five states, all on the East Coast, in which every county was considered to be plagued by unacceptable levels of pollution. The others are Delaware, Massachusetts and Rhode Island. 
 The New York counties where smog levels exceed federal standards are on Long Island, in New York City, in the suburbs north and northwest of the city, and the western part of the state. They have 16 million residents, most of the state's population. 
 Jane M. Kenny, the E.P.A.'s regional administrator for New York and New Jersey, said the new list did not mean that the region's air had become dirtier. Rather, she said, the new standards are part of a broader, more aggressive effort to keep the air clean. The new standards, and regulations to help attain them, not only will clean up the region's air, she said, but will help reduce asthma and other respiratory problems. 
 She added that new regulations released this week by the E.P.A. would reduce power plant emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides that drift across state lines and end up contaminating air on the East Coast. 
 The new standard for measuring smog requires air samples to be taken over eight hours, replacing standards that used a one-hour sample. 
 Standards for ozone and soot were tightened in 1997 during the Clinton administration but did not take effect for several years because of legal challenges that rose as high as the Supreme Court, which rejected the arguments in 2001. 
 It has taken the E.P.A. three years to compile the list of counties in violation of the new standards. During that time, New York and other states lobbied heavily to keep certain counties off the list. Because of an anomaly in testing, officials said, the city of Syracuse and the counties around it, have been left unclassified until more samples can be taken during the ozone season this summer. 
 The E.P.A.'s final list contains 474 counties, which have a total population of 159 million people. Local and state governments have until April 2007 to come up with plans to reduce the two main components of ozone, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds. They will then have up to seven years to implement the plans. 
 David McIntosh, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group, said that no matter what New York, New Jersey and Connecticut do, it may not be enough unless federal officials get tougher with industries west of the coast. ''The E.P.A. has to require the large air pollution sources in and upwind of New York State to install pollution control technology that American know-how has already made available,'' he said, ''and to do it now, not 20 years from now.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Ozone in the Air''The Environmental Protection Agency yesterday released a list of areas that do not meet new standards on ozone, a major component of smog.E.P.A. Classifications:Basic -- Must meet clean air standards by 2009
 may be extended up to five years. Albany, Chautauqua, Erie, Essex (part), Genesee, Greene, Livingston, Monroe, Montgomery, Niagara, Ontario, Orleans, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schenectady, Schoharie, WayneModerate -- Must meet standards by 2010. Bronx, Dutchess, Kings, Nassau, New York, Orange, Putnam, Queens, Richmond, Rockland, Suffolk, WestchesterNot yet classified -- Cayuga, Madison, Onondaga, OswegoCurrently in compliance(pg. B4)Map of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut highlighting counties that have basic, moderate, not yet classified or currently in compliance E.P.A. classifications on ozone. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOG (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); COUNTIES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ASTHMA (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (77%); SUBURBS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



349 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: California Reinvents the Wheel

 BODY:
The tight economy is forcing states to re-examine the mandatory sentencing laws that have filled prisons to overflowing with long-term inmates -- who can cost as much as $30,000 per person each year -- while having a marginal impact on crime. Faced with a choice between building prisons and building schools or roads, the states are searching desperately for ways to get prison spending under control. That means stemming the tide of inmates who are arrested again shortly after being released. 
 The search for a way to curb recidivism is leading right back to the prison education programs that were discarded during the 1990's, when teaching illiterate inmates to read and training them for jobs outside prison were suddenly viewed as being ''soft on crime.'' The de-emphasis on prison education is being rethought by some legislators in California, a financially strapped state that currently spends nearly as much on its corrections system as it spends on the system of public four-year colleges for which it was once famous.
 The inmate population was driven up by a series of mandatory sentencing policies that placed prisoners behind bars for longer and longer periods of time. The most famous of these was the ''three strikes and you're out'' law that California voters approved in 1994, which requires a sentence of 25 years to life for any felon with two previous convictions.
 Despite a bankrupting outlay of more than $5 billion a year for prisons, California has one of the highest recidivism rates in the nation. That's not surprising, given that 50 percent of the inmates are illiterate and therefore unlikely to find jobs once they are released. California law requires that these men and women be given remedial education in prison until they can read at a ninth-grade level. Yet figures made available by the State Legislature show that fewer than 10 percent of the prisoners are enrolled in academic education programs. 
 Civic groups and die-hard lawmakers are pushing a new bill that would take prison education out of the hands of prison officials -- who tend to see it as a low priority -- and give control to a prison education board that would create a master plan for the entire state. The bill would ensure that inmates who had a reasonable expectation of being released would have the opportunity to become literate. 
 The politically powerful union that represents prison guards, which has usually opposed measures like this one, should not be allowed to dictate the outcome of this debate. Legislators are naturally worried about the costs, given California's budget problems. What lawmakers need to understand, however, is that people who leave prison with marketable skills are much less likely to return. A prison education program that cuts recidivism by a substantial percentage would also cut crime and save hundreds of millions of dollars, so the program would pay for itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); SENTENCING (91%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECIDIVISM RATES (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITERACY RATES (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); FELONIES (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (71%); APPROVALS (65%) Editorials; Education and Schools; Illiteracy; Reading and Writing Skills; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



350 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn's Radiant New Art Palace

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
LATERAL growth -- the social transformation of New York beyond Manhattan -- is likely to be the most important urban development in the city for the foreseeable future. This weekend, a milestone in that development will be reached. With the completion of the Brooklyn Museum's new entrance pavilion, the city has gained one of the most attractive public spaces to be found anywhere in town. It will be fascinating to watch as the neighborhood discovers how to use it.
 This building makes its own splash. New York is not a great town for fountains, but it has just come by a spectacular one. Created by WET Design, which is based in Southern California, the new fountain is the apotheosis of that delightful bygone genre of the department stores, dancing waters. Come for the fountain. You might even stay for the art. 
 The entire sweeping pavilion, designed by James Stewart Polshek of Polshek Partnership Architects, resembles a cascade, actually, with steps of glass instead of water spilling down. The design is not flawless. The brushed satin finish of the addition's steel framework dulls the impact of a structure that ought to pop you in the eye. But the project is more nuanced than Mr. Polshek's other recent addition to a landmark Beaux Arts building, the Rose Center for Earth and Space at the American Museum of Natural History. The pavilion, which officially opens tomorrow, has got a precise if not wildly imaginative grip on its place in urban history.
 That is not intended as faint praise. Because Mr. Polshek adheres to the view that architecture is best spoken in a vernacular dialect, his work is destined to be undersung. But the Brooklyn design makes a good argument for the validity of that view. The McKim, Mead & White museum itself, opened in 1897, embodies the Beaux Arts conception of classicism as a common tongue. Mr. Polshek gives form to that idea's 20th-century descendant, the adoption of engineering as the basis of a vernacular style.
 The juxtaposition of these vocabularies is a history lesson, in other words, and a literally revealing one. The McKim, Mead & White building is a steel frame structure, not the masonry monument it appears to be. And this discrepancy, or rather the lack of integrity it was once thought to symbolize, became the ethical rationale for a modern aesthetic Mr. Polshek continues to embrace. The design's sensitivity to its surroundings, however, is uniquely his.
 Four out of five Beaux Arts buildings prefer a symmetrical setting. The Brooklyn Museum is the fifth. Washington Avenue slices the site into an irregular shape. The new design turns the irregularity into a strength. It mediates between the classical formality of the museum's facade and the agreeably disordered cityscape. Deference is the design's keynote. It takes its scale from the McKim, Mead & White central portico.
 The project breaks down into a three-part sequence, though the parts happily blur together into a flowing threshold condition. The plaza in front of the building has been entirely reconstructed, with impeccable landscape design by Judith Heintz Landscape Architecture.
 The plaza now resembles a semicircle of concentric arcs radiating outward from the portico. The entrance proper, marked by a glass canopy supported by cables attached to four metal masts, has been shifted to the portico's right side. It is approached along a paved, wedge-shaped promenade that narrows as it stretches toward the facade from the Eastern Parkway/Brooklyn Museum subway stop. (A newly remodeled station is part of the design.)
 The stepped roof of the pavilion fills in an area once occupied by a vertiginously high monumental staircase. Removed in 1939, the ceremonial flight was double the height of the stairs at the Metropolitan Museum of Art or at the American Museum of Natural History. Hello up there! The exaggerated altitude will remind the historically minded that the Brooklyn Museum was originally intended to be six times the size of the present institution. That was before Brooklyn was annexed into New York City, and before the federal income tax dealt a death blow to Gilded Age excess.
 The Polshek design has its own grandeur, however. Those looking for a monumental stoop to perch on will be handsomely accommodated by rows of seating that ascend in a broad arc along the left side of the pavilion. Intended as an amphitheater for outdoor concerts and other performances, this concrete riser provides the ideal vantage point for gazing at that magnificent fountain.
 The Gilded Age produced nothing like this aquatic show. Water gushing from a row of concealed jets can be manipulated into different heights and configurations, from low gurgle to Old Faithful. The fountain gets it about gravity. Rising up in pulses, the water seems to hang in the air, as if captured by strobe photography, before crashing to the ground in a percussive, drenching splash.
 To enter the pavilion, you can cross over the roof, on a curving elevated passerelle, or walk back across the plaza to the paved promenade. Three revolving doors spin visitors into the new structure's interior, which is potentially the best new public space New York has seen in years. In effect a winter garden, or orangerie, this is crystal palace architecture. It descends from the same Victorian moment that produced the recycling of period styles.
 A trick of scale helps account for the delight. From the outside, seen in relationship to the facade, the pavilion appears to hug the ground. Inside, it soars. And the semicircular shape gives the space a dynamic horizontal sweep. Cafe tables and chairs are promised. Trees should be tall and plentiful, the Wi-Fi reliable, the coffee hot. If this is dumbing-down, I'm all for it. But it looks to me like civilized pleasure.
 From the pavilion, visitors progress into the museum lobby through a striking brick colonnade. Four massive square columns are in fact the pedestals for the properly dressed Ionic columns of the portico above. The brick itself is the fire-proofing for the steel structure that supports the entire building.
 The robust, archaeological look of the exposed brick columns and walls conveys the primitive impression that the architect Aldo Rossi aimed for but seldom achieved. Except for the thickness of the bricks, this could be an excavated portion of the Aurelian Wall. The effect reinforces and enriches the classicism of the original design.
 Then you're in. Four fat white columns define a tall, neutral space with an information desk and coat check. Beyond is the entrance for school buses. A modulated but unbroken flow of space extends from the subway through the building and out the other side: the design amplifies access.
 Access should not become a dirty word. It is the concept that culture revolves around today, according to the social critic Jeremy Rifkin. In this sense Polshek's design is as vibrantly contemporary as the most flamboyantly Baroque museum architecture of our time. 
 Access is a Baroque idea, actually: think of St. Peter's Square. No movement was more populist, and it changed the way Romans and others thought about and used their cities. The influence of that inclusive impulse is felt today.
 On a recent visit to the Brooklyn Museum, I had a sudden flash of the impromptu outdoor cinemas that Romans set up in the summer, with makeshift screens and folding chairs. Let's book ''Three Coins in the Fountain'' for Brooklyn's new amphitheater, and make a wish for free headphones, for the neighbors' sake.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Discovering a new public space: Brooklyn Museum's sweeping new entrance pavilion resembles a cascade, with steps of glass spilling down to a landscaped plaza. Below, overlapping panels of the pavilion's stepped roof. (Photos by above, Ruby Washington/The New York Times
below, Richard Barnes/Polshek Partnership Architects)(pg. E31)
Inside the Brooklyn Museum's new entrance pavilion, which was designed by James Stewart Polshek. (Photo by Richard Barnes/Polshek Partnership Architects)
''Manifest Destiny,'' a mural by Alexis Rockman in the lobby, is an apocalyptic view of Brooklyn's future. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 Dancing waters in the new fountain. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. E37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HISTORY (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); RETAILERS (54%) Architecture; Reviews; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Art

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%) Brooklyn Museum; Polshek Partnership Architects

PERSON: Herbert Muschamp; James Stewart Polshek

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



351 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: New Unity On Contracts Seen in NATO

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENHOLD

DATELINE: PARIS, April 15 

 BODY:
With NATO member states just days away from awarding a military contract for 4 billion euros to a trans-Atlantic consortium of aerospace companies, a new era of joint procurement may be dawning for the alliance, defense experts said on Thursday.
 A group of six companies, led by the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, known as EADS, and Northrop Grumman of the United States, looks set to win the contract, worth $4.8 billion, to build a mixed fleet of manned and unmanned surveillance aircraft for the alliance by 2010, said a NATO official close to the selection process.
 Since procurement experts at NATO's Brussels headquarters put their support behind the EADS-Northrop consortium, officials in national capitals are expected to approve that decision ''within days,'' the official said.
 ''It seems to be a genuine multinational procurement decision, and that is quite a significant step for cooperation in this area,'' said Steven Everts, a military expert at the Center for European Reform, a research group in London. ''There is an acceleration of the desire to cooperate more closely within the E.U. and across the Atlantic.'' 
 Against a backdrop of violence in Iraq and heightened concerns that terrorists may be aiming at Europe after the Madrid train bombings, pragmatism may be gaining the upper hand over the political procurement decisions of the past, analysts said. While some major European governments continue to disagree with the United States on a wide range of issues, including the war in Iraq and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the willingness to deepen their cooperation within NATO may herald a renewed commitment to the alliance.
 James Appathurai, a spokesman for NATO, called the decision ''historic,'' confirming a report on Thursday in The Financial Times.
 ''This is only the second time in NATO's history that members join forces in procurement on this scale,'' he said. The first time, he said, was the Awacs surveillance system developed in the 1960's.
 ''The decision was reached pragmatically on the basis of price, capability and scheduling considerations -- not necessarily three factors that have determined procurement decisions in the past,'' Mr. Appathurai said.
 Governments have preferred to keep national control of procurement, both to determine the exact nature of a project and to award contracts to the titans of a country's military industry.
 As a result, military capacities within the European Union, where most countries also belong to NATO, have often been duplicated.
 The idea for a joint fleet of air-to-ground surveillance aircraft has been considered for about a decade at NATO, Mr. Appathurai said. Recent progress on the matter ''reflects a realization on the part of NATO nations that our troops are out there in the field, and they need this type of cooperation,'' he said.
 This evolving pragmatism is rooted at least in part in financial reality. With technology becoming more sophisticated and expensive, collective procurement makes financial sense, analysts said. In addition, recent sluggishness in the global economy has depleted national coffers, leaving less room for governments to bolster military budgets.
 ''Pooling is the way to go,'' Mr. Everts of the Center for European Reform said. ''It's good news for taxpayers and also good news for political cooperation that common sense has won.''
 The EADS-Northrop consortium includes Galileo Avionica of Italy, General Dynamics Canada, Indra of Spain, and Thales of France. In addition, more than 80 other companies from NATO countries support the joint proposal, which would provide a mixed fleet of manned A320 Airbus planes and unmanned Global Hawk planes.
 According to Alexander Reinhardt, an EADS spokesman, the price for an A320 is about 50 million euros, or $59.8 million, though a modified version for intelligence purposes might vary in price. The Global Hawk aircraft that Northrop has been building for the United States Air Force costs about $30 million, James Stratford, a spokesman for the company, said.
 A competing consortium, led by Raytheon of the United States and including Siemens of Germany and Marconi of Britain, has complained that NATO's procurement officials took too little time to examine the two proposals, which were submitted four months ago. Mr. Appathurai of NATO rejected the complaint. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); EURO (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HISTORY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); AIRLINES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); TERRORISM (66%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (65%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (65%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; European Aeronautic Defense and Space; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Northrop Grumman

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (84%); EAD (MCE) (84%); NOC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: katrin benhold

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); BELGIUM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



352 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: A Corporate Quandary Over Raising Prices

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The March jump in consumer prices surprised many people, but not Harry C. Hagerty.
 ''We are seeing nice increases,'' said Mr. Hagerty, the chief financial officer of Caesars Entertainment Inc. ''Our occupancy is up; our rates are up.'' Indeed, a night at the Caesars Palace Las Vegas rose, on average, to $158 last month from $149 a year ago.
 The lodging industry was one of the standout categories in the March Consumer Price Index, which showed a surprising jump of 0.5 percent from February and a three-month trend that would translate to an annual inflation rate of 5.1 percent. The numbers have convinced many economists that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates this summer to forestall an inflationary burst. 
 And yet, the broad array of goods and services shows a mixed picture. Gas at the pump has shot through the roof, and rates for service industry categories like hotel rooms and cancer screenings have continued to rise. But prices for a swath of manufactured products, from shoes to television sets to cars, remain stable or are even falling, as competition from low-wage labor overseas keeps a lid on prices here.
 ''I don't see any opportunity for raising prices,'' said James R. Riedman, chairman and chief executive of the Phoenix Footwear Group, a maker of men's and women's shoes in Carlsbad, Calif., which must contend with rivals in low-wage countries like China and Guatemala. ''If anything, prices are going downward.'' 
 Economists acknowledge that a surge in commodity prices -- everything from oil to steel to wood -- is putting upward pressure on inflation. A recovering economy is also giving companies somewhat more leeway to try to raise their prices to consumers. 
 Yet competition from low-wage producers abroad, combined with generally stagnant wages in the United States, has convinced many economists that inflation is not about to catch fire. 
 ''It looks like they have a little more flexibility to raise prices,'' Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman, Sachs, said of American businesses. ''But we should not discard the idea that international competition will restrain price rises.''
 To a large degree, the March inflation bump was driven by special phenomena. Energy prices surged by 1.9 percent from February to March, on a seasonally adjusted basis, led by a 5.5 percent increase in the average price of gasoline.
 The other main contributor to the price jump was lodging away from home -- up 3.8 percent in March -- as rates at hotels have continued to rise in response to the travel industry's continuing recovery from the lingering effects of the terrorist attacks in 2001. Few analysts expect the surge to continue, though, because it would mean an unlikely annual lodging inflation rate of 56.4 percent. 
 Still, ''for the next couple of quarters, I expect the demand trends to continue,'' Mr. Hagerty of Caesars Entertainment said. He said the company planned to add 950 rooms to Caesars Palace Las Vegas, to accommodate the increased demand. 
 Apparel was the one manufacturing industry that contributed in a significant way to the March uptick, with a 0.9 percent increase. But the apparel category reflected some special circumstances. March is traditionally a good month for apparel, and an unseasonably cold February kept many shoppers at home. 
 More typical is the broad range of manufactured goods in which prices have fallen or remained flat -- including new cars, personal computers and shoes. 
 At Phoenix Footwear, whose H.S. Trask line of shoes for men sell for $100 to $185 and its Trotters brand for women goes for as much as $75, price increases have not been part of the strategy for many years. The only way the company has been able to get more money for its shoes is to introduce new, improved models -- not by increasing prices on existing lines. 
 ''I have been here for the last decade and I'm not aware of having ever seen an increase in prices in the traditional sense,'' Mr. Riedman said. 
 For years, as more competing producers have set up shop in low-wage countries, Phoenix, like other shoe manufacturers, has mostly protected its profit margins by driving down costs. It closed its last plant in the United States in 1999 and now makes its shoes in China and elsewhere. 
 Similar cost pressures have played out in higher-technology industries, too. Randy J. Cavaiani, the executive vice president of First International Digital, a Chicago company that makes the iRock MP3 digital music player, says the prices of MP3 players have been plummeting in the last year. A 128-megabyte player that would have sold for a retail price of $150 last year is going for about $99 today. 
 ''Customers want more and more memory and functionality, but at a lower price,'' Mr. Cavaiani said. 
 To curb costs, First International produces its players overseas -- in places like South Korea and Taiwan. But the company is being squeezed anyway, unable to raise prices even as global demand from the cellphone industry and digital camera makers has driven up prices of the flash chips used in MP3 players. 
 To find real price increases typically means looking at the service sector and providers like the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, which offer vital services and do not face foreign competition. 
 Wages represent 50 percent to 60 percent of Sloan-Kettering's costs. And in the last two years, a shortage of nurses, technicians and other qualified personnel has forced the center to raise wages by 4 percent a year, according to John Gunn, an executive vice president. 
 Competition in Sloan-Kettering's case is mainly for skilled workers. ''When the finance industry kicked into gear, it created more demand for computer and other clerical people,'' Mr. Gunn said. ''Coupled to that there have been actual shortages of people like nurses and qualified technicians in radiation therapy.'' 
 But Sloan-Kettering has been able to shadow the higher wages by raising its prices around 3 percent, on average, every six months.
 In an earlier era such an option might have been available for a consumer goods manufacturer like Procter & Gamble, too. But the last time Procter raised the prices of its paper towels and toilet paper was April 2000, even though the company's costs have surged for two of its primary commodities. Paper pulp is up 20 percent in the last 18 months, while natural gas is up about 40 percent.
 In the day of global competition, before resorting to price increases Procter first had to find other ways to protect its margins from the higher cost of raw materials. 
 For instance, the company stopped wrapping the individual rolls sold in its Bounty 15-packs. It reduced printing on some of the packaging. It tried to induce consumers to buy Charmin toilet paper rolls containing more sheets -- which meant making fewer rolls and reduced Procter's outlays for the cardboard tubes. 
 ''We did all we could to drive out the inefficiencies,'' said Celeste Kuta, a spokeswoman for Procter & Gamble's family care unit. ''We had to make enough profit.''
 It was not until February, even as its competitors continued to eat their cost increases, that Procter finally gave in. The company announced it would raise prices for its Bounty and Charmin brands by about 6 percent in July. ''We really had to do it,'' Ms. Kuta said. ''Consumers understand.''
 Within weeks, as if on cue, Kimberly-Clark, a competitor to Procter, said that it would also raise its prices by 6 percent. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Best Buy is selling television sets for the same price or slightly less than last year as manufacturers are reluctant to increase prices. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Inflation Backs Some Businesses Into a Corner''While inflation is strong in many service industries, other businesses, mainly those in the manufacturing sector, have been unable to pass along rising costs for materials. Figures are changes from a year earlier.Graph shows:CONSUMER PRICESLODGINGEDUCATIONMEDICAL SERVICESAPPLIANCESNEW VEHICLES(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LODGING (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); FOOTWEAR MFG (72%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (53%); CANCER (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TERRORISM (50%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PHOENIX FOOTWEAR GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (94%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (54%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (54%); SIC3143 MEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (54%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



353 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7; Residential Real Estate

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: 9-Story Project Approved in TriBeCa Warehouse District

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
A small investment bank has won final approval to build a nine-story building on the edge of a historic and trendy TriBeCa warehouse district, a project that is intended to weave together the old and new, both in the curved arch of its windows and the unusual mix of uses planned for the building.
 The project at 408 Greenwich Street, approved over strenuous community opposition, is to be built on the site of a garage on the corner of Hubert Street at the southern rim of the TriBeCa North Historic District, a melange of expensive condominiums, cobblestone streets, garages, lofts and even some working warehouses.
 In keeping with this mix, the new building is meant to serve as a kind of oversize home office for the principals of Samuel A. Ramirez and Company, a privately owned downtown financial firm that describes itself as the 10th largest municipal bond underwriter and one of the oldest and largest Hispanic-owned investment banks in the United States.
 Under the plan, four floors of the 50-by-80-foot building will serve as corporate headquarters of the firm, with offices for its 75 employees based in New York. But the top two floors, with views of the Hudson two blocks away, will be the home of its president and founder, Samuel A. Ramirez, and his son, Samuel Jr., an executive vice president. 
 The two floors immediately below will be divided into four 1,750-square-foot rental apartments, the younger Mr. Ramirez said. They will all share a roof deck. Rents of close to $6,000 a month are projected.
 ''Some people like to have an hour to read the paper on the commute to work; that is not us,'' the younger Mr. Ramirez said. ''This is not something that everyone does, it is probably not recommended by doctors, but it makes sense for us. We work downtown and we already live downtown.''
 There will also be commercial space on the ground floor. 
 The project had to run a gantlet of government approvals, including a review by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission, which eliminated two additional stories, but which celebrated the final plan by the architect, Morris Adjmi, for providing a design that echoed elements of the traditional TriBeCa warehouse, in modern materials and style. The commission said the building ''would enhance the special architectural character'' of the district.
 ''We worked with them and we were quite pleased with the results,'' said Robert B. Tierney, chairman of the Landmarks Commission. ''Its good for TriBeCa. It shows that landmarking can be consistent with economic development.'' 
 The project was also reviewed by the Board of Standards and Appeals, which voted late last month to approve a hardship application from the company, allowing a taller, bulkier building than permitted by the zoning code, including 60 percent more floor space than would otherwise have been allowed.
 Neighbors and community leaders who fought for the original historic district designation for the area in the 1980's complained that the building was too big, dwarfing many 19th-century warehouses nearby. They are still considering a court challenge, which could delay the project. 
 Carole DeSaram, president of the TriBeCa Community Association, said the project was an example of greed, not hardship, and she feared the project would lead other developers to try to ''bust the zoning'' in the historic district. ''It is more than too high,'' she said. ''The building is the most outrageous example of in-your-face greed.''
 Mr. Tierney said that the landmarks commission does not rule on zoning and building bulk issues that are reviewed by other agencies. In approving the nine-story building, he said, his agency merely concluded that a building of that height was compatible with nearby buildings. 
 The design by Mr. Adjmi is full of echoes of the industrial past of TriBeCa, while attempting, he said, to be something entirely new and different as well. The facade has the arched windows common in the older warehouses, but is fabricated from lightly colored solid blocks of precast concrete, rather than the dark masonry common in the area. The top floor is designed to relate to the heavy cornices that set off the top floors in nearby buildings. 
 Mr. Adjmi, a former partner and disciple of the Italian architect Aldo Rossi, has made something of a specialty of creating new buildings in historic districts. He teamed with Mr. Rossi on the striking Scholastic Inc. building, at 557 Broadway, a new building in the midst of the SoHo-Cast Iron Historic District that was completed in 2001.
 According to the younger Mr. Ramirez, the project will cost $17 million to $20 million, with construction beginning as early as this summer and the building completed in about 12 months.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a building proposed for 408 Greenwich Street. It is to include offices for a financial firm and 1,750-square-foot apartments. (Photo by ma.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPROVALS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); ZONING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAMIREZ & CO INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



354 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Newest Export Out of China: Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Chris Buckley, in Beijing, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China, April 15 

 BODY:
As managers of businesses across China opened booths here on Thursday at the nation's biggest trade fair, the common refrain was that prices of everything from rice to steel were rising sharply, and that prices of exports to the United States, Europe and elsewhere would have to follow.
 The prices for orders placed now will not show up in most American indexes for months, when goods are actually shipped. But as prices begin to rise in the United States, concerns are growing that China will become an exporter of inflation. Even though its goods account for a small percentage of total American purchases, China has played an oversize role in worldwide prices, with low labor costs that allow it to set prices in many industries.
 A socket wrench manufacturer said his high-quality models had risen in price by 10 percent in the last six months and his lesser-quality models by as much as 50 percent. An exporter of automobile exhaust manifolds, brake drums and other parts had raised prices by 10 percent in several increments since December. 
 The prices of steel and other materials are major culprits. Another is energy costs. A motorcycle manufacturer in east-central China said he has had to close a factory for three days each week because of electricity blackouts, forcing a 4 percent increase in prices, with more planned. 
 Food and other necessities are putting pressure on wages. A maker of key-cutting machines in an inland province of central China said it was paying workers 10 to 20 percent more to help cover sharp increases in rice prices and had raised export prices for the machines by 25 to 30 percent.
 Price increases in raw materials and other business costs in China, a government spokesman said, will probably spill over soon to consumer prices in China and abroad.
 ''There is a time lag, but it can't be too long, and there is pressure for price rises,'' said Zheng Jingping, the spokesman for the National Bureau of Statistics, at a news conference in Beijing on Thursday. ''If this goes on for a long time, it will cause problems.''
 Exports from China to the United States last year represented just 1.2 percent of the value of all goods and services produced within the United States. But China has been the lowest-cost provider in many areas. As its prices rise, many other low-income and middle-income countries exporting to the United States, from Eastern Europe to Mexico and Central and South America, will find it easier to raise prices as well.
 China's efforts to keep the economy from overheating and igniting inflation have been unfruitful so far. Using a term that Mr. Zheng and other Chinese officials have conspicuously avoided, the state-run New China News Agency on Thursday quoted Morgan Stanley's China economist, Andy Xie, describing the Chinese economy as ''a bubble.''
 That comment came as Beijing announced that the economy had grown 9.7 percent in the first quarter, faster than expected. The statistics bureau also reported that consumer prices were exactly 3 percent higher in March than a year earlier.
 Mr. Xie of Morgan Stanley said in a telephone interview that the true increase in consumer prices could be 7 or 8 percent. ''The State Council has said they want to keep inflation below 3 percent, so they have to report an increase of 3 percent,'' he said, referring to China's cabinet.
 In the United States, the Labor Department reported on Wednesday that prices climbed 0.5 percent in March, with gasoline and clothing leading the way, for an annualized rate of more than 6 percent if sustained. Though prices of housing and health care have been heading higher for some time, increases in other areas stoked concerns in the financial markets that inflation was back.
 Within China, ferocious competition has kept prices from rising for relatively costly items like cars, household appliances and mobile phones. Giant companies like Wal-Mart, moreover, have some ability to force suppliers to hold down price increases. The main buyers at the Guangzhou Trade Fair are wholesalers who supply small and medium-size retailers.
 China also has more unemployed people in rural areas than the entire American work force, and many are migrating to cities in search of work, providing a check on wages.
 But managers from two companies in Wuhan in central China said in separate interviews that factories there had lifted wages by at least 10 percent in response to what one manager described as pressure from the provincial government to help workers cope with rising food prices. Managers of a company in northeastern China that makes machinery for embroidering clothing and an auto parts factory in central China described smaller wage increases.
 ''The cost of living -- transport, food, everything -- is going up,'' said Su Han Xiang, the director general of Jinshan Ceramic Industries in southern China, explaining that he had just given his workers a raise of several percent. 
 Michael Woo, the general manager of a door lock company here in Guangdong Province, said that he had not raised the wages his company pays: $110 a month plus heavily subsidized room and board. But he noted that workers' pay was already higher in this province than elsewhere, so Guangdong workers were less vulnerable to rising food prices.
 Buyers at the trade fair talked about marking up prices in coming months. Paul Bartels, the general manager of Bright-Life Catalogue Inc. in Cedarhurst, N.Y., buys products in bulk as a broker for American mail-order companies. 
 Speaking from the hardware hall at the fair, Mr. Bartels said that he had taken price increases of a few percent from his profit margins, but had passed on larger increases. ''With every customer I have, I've gone back and revised prices, and none have gone down,'' he said.
 Whether the trend will be sustained depends on many variables. Chinese leaders have taken steps to slow the economy and brake inflation, raising reserve requirements for banks twice in less than three weeks. By next year, the many steel mills now under construction could start easing the acute shortages that are driving up steel prices. New power plants over the next five years should curb blackouts if coal mines can increase output fast enough to supply them. 
 Growing evidence suggests that Beijing has been using informal price controls on businesses, especially state-owned enterprises, to help keep inflation under control.
 Two representatives of one of China's largest state-owned chemical companies said that while the company had just raised by 50 percent the export price of a popular insecticide for rice and cotton, the government had prevented the company from charging more to Chinese farmers.
 Yet the increase in the export price, they said, is an accurate reflection of rising costs. Yellow phosphorus, the insecticide's main ingredient, is, like many raw materials, in short supply because mines have failed to keep pace with demand. And while chemical factories commonly operated seven days a week until a few months ago, many are now idle for two or three days a week because of blackouts stemming from soaring use of air conditioners, refrigerators and other appliances.
 As a result, the steep investment cost for each chemical production line must be spread over a smaller output of pesticides and fertilizers.
 The United States and Western European nations found in the 1970's that price controls can limit inflation for a while, but they also cause markets to become less efficient and slow economic growth. Prices then jump when the controls are lifted.
 Just as rising oil prices created a problem in the United States three decades ago, rising prices for energy and other raw materials have rippled through the Chinese economy. Because wages are still so low, raw materials account for a much larger share of costs here than in many other countries.
 At the trade fair, the exhibition area with the widest variety of goods belonged to a marketing company from Hubei Province in central China. The company's export director, Ke Sheng Feng, rattled off price increases for work boots, up 10 percent; machetes, up 20 percent; and folding steel ladders, up 50 percent.
 ''Frankly speaking, all products will be increasing'' in price, Mr. Ke said. ''If the conditions continue like this, business will be difficult.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Coiled steel products were ready for use at the Hangzhou Iron and Steel Company in February. China uses a quarter of the world's steel products, and the rising price of the manufacturing material is fueling inflation. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Even Officially, Inflation Is Rising''Increases in consumer prices remain moderate in China, but manufacturers' costs are rising rapidly and the government, previously reluctant to admit that the economy may be overheating, is warning that price increases will soon be passed on to consumers.Graph shows: Raw material prices, Producer prices, and Consumer prices since 1998. (Year-over-year change in prices in China)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RICE MARKETS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); STATISTICS (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (69%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (67%); POWER FAILURES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); MOTORCYCLES (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (60%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); SOUTH CHINA (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) China; Europe; Mexico; Latin America; China

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



355 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: DIPLOMACY

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: U.S. OPEN TO PLAN THAT SUPPLANTS COUNCIL IN IRAQ

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
The Bush administration accepted on Thursday the outlines of a United Nations proposal to dissolve the Iraqi Governing Council installed last year by the United States and replace it with a caretaker government when Iraqi sovereignty is restored on July 1.
 Administration officials said that the proposal by Lakhdar Brahimi, the special United Nations envoy in Iraq, to create a new government of prominent Iraqis had many details to be worked out, but that for now it was acceptable to President Bush.
 ''I don't see anything at this point in what he's proposing that would be of concern to us,'' said Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, in an interview, adding that Mr. Brahimi's mission ''thus far has been very successful.'' 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell also supported the plan, while Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, without explicitly approving it said it was likely to become a reality.
 The Brahimi plan would replace the American-appointed Iraqi Governing Council with a transition government whose leaders would be appointed by the United Nations, after consultations with the United States, the governing council and other Iraqis. It could include members of the current governing council, but it is unclear how it would balance religious and regional rivalries within Iraq. By endorsing the Brahimi plan, the administration seemed to accept diminished American influence over the Iraqi political process as self-rule approaches and after power has passed back to Baghdad. The move was the latest abandonment of an element of the plan the Americans arrived at on Nov. 15, specifying the June 30 transfer.
 But administration officials asserted that, even with the United Nations overseeing the selection of a caretaker government and then holding an election and helping the Iraqis write a constitution, American influence on the process would be considerable -- not least because the United States is to remain in charge of military and security matters, and will be the country's main source of economic aid.
 In addition, Ms. Rice's chief deputy for Iraq, Robert Blackwill, has been working side by side with Mr. Brahimi in Iraq to come up with the plan proposed on Wednesday, several officials noted. The surge of violence in Iraq in recent weeks effectively forced President Bush's hand, administration officials said. They acknowledge that any new plan had to be proposed by the United Nations and bear no obvious stamp of American influence. 
 American, European and United Nations diplomats all said that the Brahimi plan would probably give the United Nations a major role, and perhaps the leading role, in superintending the process of building democracy in Iraq. 
 ''What he has come up with is an idea that he thinks will work,'' Ms. Rice said, referring to Mr. Brahimi. ''In May he will have an actual proposal, but we have no objections thus far to what he has proposed.''
 Mr. Powell told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that Mr. Brahimi's proposal ''reflects some very, very good thinking'' and ''a great deal of wisdom and experience'' on his part, though he noted that the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, now needed to give his blessing.
 On Thursday night, Mr. Annan met in New York with Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister, to discuss Mr. Brahimi's proposal. Mr. Blair said he welcomed Mr. Brahimi's efforts ''to find the right political way forward'' in Iraq.
 Administration officials, speaking anonymously because of the sensitivity of the issues, said they were concerned that at least some members of the current Iraqi Governing Council would try to block Mr. Brahimi's proposal or jockey to make themselves a part of it.
 ''There are clearly some politics in Iraq, and the governing council is part of that politics,'' said an administration official. ''It isn't a matter of us telling Brahimi what to do. It's a matter of what he thinks is right and of his being aware of what we think will be effective.''
 The 25-member Iraqi Governing Council was the product of efforts led by L. Paul Bremer III, the American occupation administrator, when he first arrived in Baghdad at the close of what President Bush called major combat. At the time, American officials praised it as representative of Iraqi aspirations and perhaps even the most representative government in the Arab world. Since then, however, the council has lost much credibility in Iraqi society, American officials say. 
 In recent weeks, however, there were signs that American officials remained wedded to keeping the council, in an expanded version. Mr. Powell said only two weeks ago that an expanded version of the council was the most likely alternative.
 Some American officials say that they expect Ahmad Chalabi, an exile favored by the Pentagon, could be marginalized as a result of the new plan. Aides to Mr. Brahimi make no secret of the envoy's disdain for Mr. Chalabi. Mr. Rumsfeld is described by knowledgeable diplomats as still favoring a major role for Mr. Chalabi in Iraq.
 Mr. Rumsfeld said that since the Brahimi plan was deemed ''a reasonable one'' by State Department and White House officials, ''the odds favor a model something like what Mr. Brahimi announced.''
 Mr. Brahimi, a veteran of peacekeeping operations, most recently was in charge of putting together a government in Afghanistan, for which he won widespread praise. The Afghan model of convening a council of notables from around the country to approve a new constitution is similar to the one he has proposed for Iraq. Administration officials cautioned that there was some hard work to do to make sure that Iraq's various factions could coalesce around Mr. Brahimi's proposal, though they acknowledge that the chances of their doing so were better than they would be for anything put forward by an American envoy.
 United States armed forces have tried to counter attacks by Shiites and Sunnis and create a stable environment in which the political process could be installed. Meanwhile, military commanders have complained that a lack of progress on the political front has hampered their own efforts to stabilize Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photo: UNDER FIRE -- United States marines on patrol in the Falluja area yesterday were attacked several times by insurgents, despite a cease-fire called to give negotiators on both sides time to reach a solution. The marines killed several insurgents while suffering only minor injuries. Page A6. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%) United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Steven R Weisman; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Lakhdar Brahimi; Condoleezza Rice; Robert D Blackwill

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



356 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Pork, Sweet and Sour

 BODY:
The Congressional practice of dipping into the public trough to finance projects that benefit only a single legislator is so firmly established that most people yawn when they see the words ''pork-barrel spending.'' Yet every so often a project comes along with such a grotesquely negative cost-benefit ratio that even the most cynical citizen snaps awake.
 So it is with Representative Don Young of Alaska and his two bridges to nowhere. Both bridges are included in the national highway bill recently approved by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which is led by Mr. Young. One would connect the depressed town of Ketchikan in southeastern Alaska with an island one mile away. The island has 50 residents and a small airport. The other bridge, two miles long, would connect Anchorage with a small port that has one regular tenant. 
 The total cost of the two bridges is estimated at $2.2 billion. On their face, they make no sense in transportation terms -- the Ketchikan ferry, for example, does just fine. And while the projects will create hundreds of temporary construction jobs, it is hard to imagine any enduring economic benefits. It might be cheaper just to pay everybody several years' salary.
 This kind of madness also gives pork an unnecessarily bad name. Many of the personal ''earmarks'' that legislators stuff into the annual spending bills are perfectly worthy items that simply haven't made it up to the top of any priorities list. Constituents expect their representatives to push them forward. But that is no excuse for the stinkers that would make any taxpayer weep. If individual legislators cannot exercise discipline, the public has a right to expect Congress to impose it.
 Some pork fails the most elementary smell test. January's catchall appropriations bill, for instance, included a $500,000 grant for a program at the University of Akron called, with unintended humor, Exercises in Hard Choices, which examines how Congress makes budget decisions. Besides Mr. Young's bridges, the highway bill includes other items with only the faintest relationship to the nation's transportation needs, including $3.5 million for horse trails in Virginia and $1.5 million for the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich.
 The energy bill is no better. Particularly offensive is a ''green bonds'' program offering subsidized loans to any project that can demonstrate even the flimsiest connection to the country's energy needs. Among these is a $150 million riverfront development in Shreveport, La., that will offer shops, clubs and a Hooters restaurant but provide no obvious contribution to dealing with the country's energy problems beyond the fact that it will have lots of shade trees.
 Some bad ideas simply refuse to die. The Senate booted Charles Grassley's proposal for a $50 million indoor rain forest in Iowa from the energy bill, despite his claims that it would produce $120 million in tourist dollars. Mr. Grassley then found a home for it in the omnibus appropriations bill.
 Somewhere between the good things and the outrageous waste lie the impressive-sounding projects involving experimental technologies that may or may not pan out. The energy bill authorizes not one but three speculative projects aimed at turning plant matter into fuel, but the biggest bet may be the $800 million coal gasification plant awarded to Norm Coleman, a Minnesota senator whose vote was much needed during last year's debate on the bill. This plant could unlock the secret of how to burn coal in ways that do not harm the atmosphere. Or it could turn out to be another in a shamefully long line of ''clean coal'' boondoggles, which benefit nobody but the coal industry. 
 Even without asking legislators to give up lobbying for hometown projects, one can hope for more restraint, particularly in a Congress supposedly dominated by fiscal conservatives. As it stands, the current appropriations process is looking like one very expensive bridge to nowhere. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); ENERGY DEMAND (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Editorials

COMPANY: HOOTERS OF AMERICA INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%)

PERSON: DON YOUNG (78%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



357 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Premise of U.N. Proposal For Iraq Supported by Bush
The Bush administration accepted the outlines of a United Nations proposal to dissolve the Iraqi Governing Council installed last year by the United States and replace it with a caretaker government when Iraqi sovereignty is restored on July 1. A1

Three Japanese civilians taken hostage in Iraq were released unharmed and taken to the Japanese embassy, bringing to an end the country's first crisis in its involvement in the war in Iraq. But news of the release came with a report that two other Japanese civilians may have been kidnapped. A8

Iraqi officials involved in talks aimed at quelling a Shiite insurrection hope a peaceful settlement can be reached soon, though there is still disagreement on what to do regarding the militia behind it. A8

New Tape Offers Halt to Terror
A man identifying himself as Osama bin Laden on an audiotape offered to stop terrorist actions in European countries that ended military action in Muslim nations. Many countries issued statements saying that negotiations under terrorist threats were out of the question. A3

Middle East Reacts to Shift
The advisers to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel predicted that he would now get the domestic support he needs to push ahead with his Gaza plan, as the Palestinian leadership reeled in reaction to President Bush's dramatic shifts in American Middle East policy. A10

Election Raises Query in Africa
The African National Congress won a runaway victory in South Africa's general election. But, voter turnout for the nation's third democratic election in a decade appeared to fall sharply, raising questions about people's satisfaction with the electoral process. A9

NATIONAL A12-17

Bush Considers New Post To Direct Intelligence
The White House is weighing whether to pre-empt the Sept. 11 commission's final report this summer by embracing a proposal to create a powerful new post of director of national intelligence, administration officials said. A1

Campaign Finance Rules Hold
Members of the Federal Election Commission, after debating over new campaign finance rules, said that it was unlikely they would decide on new regulations in time to have an impact on this year's races. A14

Tightening Security on Trains
The Bush administration plans to begin testing techniques for improving passenger rail security at a station in suburban Maryland served by Amtrak and commuter trains running between Washington and Baltimore, officials said. A12

Bid to Stop Gay Marriages
With only a month before same-sex marriages are to become legal in Massachusetts, Gov. Mitt Romney made a last-ditch effort to keep them from taking place for at least two and a half years. A12

University Selects New Chief
Boston University's board of trustees selected a new reform-minded chairman and adopted sweeping changes in the way it conducts business, six monthes after it was criticized for bungling the selection of a new president. A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

F.D.A. Admits Silencing Expert
Top officials at the Food and Drug Administration admitted that they barred the agency's top expert from testifying at a hearing about his conclusion that antidepressants cause children to become suicidal. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Behind Drug Law Debate An Often Unnoticed Reality
While a debate has been swirling on how to soften New York State's Rockefeller-era drug laws, a reality has been largely obscured: the laws have been tweaked, and prosecutors have been steering addicts into treatment programs instead of prison. A1

Senator Dodd Apologizes
Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut has apologized for remarks he made lauding Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia as a leader for any time despite Mr. Byrd's past membership in the Ku Klux Klan and his efforts to derail the 1964 Civil Rights Act. B6

Rowland Connected to Deal
A legislative report concluded that the office of Connecticut Governor John G. Rowland was involved in the decision to commission a fuel cell plant in Middletown, Conn., and steer some of the work to a company that employed Mr. Rowland as a consultant before he became governor. B1

WEEKEND E1-30 E31-42

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES B8

EDUCATION

Tutors Fall Short
The competition between public schools and private enterprise that the Bush administration is encouraging is being tested at an elementary school in Chicago, where tutors from a private company have been unsuccessful in controlling children. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Rising Prices in China
Concerns are growing that China will become an exporter of inflation as its prices of raw materials and other costs face a sharp increase. A1

Economists have acknowledged that a surge in commodity prices is putting pressure on inflation, but competition abroad, combined with stagnant wages in the United States, has convinced many economists that inflation is not about to catch fire. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ESCAPES F1-10

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Pork, sweet and sour; Asia's ill-advised umbrella; Fixing Albany: the Velella fund.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman, William Safire.

Crossword E30
TV Listings E29
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (84%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); ELECTION LAW (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); TRAINS (64%); MARRIAGE (60%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (60%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



358 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: The Vietnam Analogy

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Iraq isn't Vietnam. The most important difference is the death toll, which is only a small fraction of the carnage in Indochina. But there are also real parallels, and in some ways Iraq looks worse.
 It's true that the current American force in Iraq is much smaller than the Army we sent to Vietnam. But the U.S. military as a whole, and the Army in particular, is also much smaller than it was in 1968. Measured by the share of our military strength it ties down, Iraq is a Vietnam-size conflict. 
 And the stress Iraq places on our military is, if anything, worse. In Vietnam, American forces consisted mainly of short-term draftees, who returned to civilian life after their tours of duty. Our Iraq force consists of long-term volunteers, including reservists who never expected to be called up for extended missions overseas. The training of these volunteers, their morale and their willingness to re-enlist will suffer severely if they are called upon to spend years fighting a guerrilla war.
 Some hawks say this proves that we need a bigger Army. But President Bush hasn't called for larger forces. In fact, he seems unwilling to pay for the forces we have.
 A fiscal comparison of George Bush's and Lyndon Johnson's policies makes the Vietnam era seem like a golden age of personal responsibility. At first, Johnson was reluctant to face up to the cost of the war. But in 1968 he bit the bullet, raising taxes and cutting spending; he turned a large deficit into a surplus the next year. A comparable program today -- the budget went from a deficit of 3.2 percent of G.D.P. to a 0.3 percent surplus in just one year -- would eliminate most of our budget deficit.
 By contrast, Mr. Bush, for all his talk about staying the course, hasn't been willing to strike anything off his domestic wish list. On the contrary, he used the initial glow of apparent success in Iraq to ram through yet another tax cut, waiting until later to tell us about the extra $87 billion he needed. And he's still at it: in his press conference on Tuesday he said nothing about the $50 billion-to-$70 billion extra that everyone knows will be needed to pay for continuing operations.
 This fiscal chicanery is part of a larger pattern. Vietnam shook the nation's confidence not just because we lost, but because our leaders didn't tell us the truth. Last September Gen. Anthony Zinni spoke of ''Vietnam, where we heard the garbage and the lies,'' and asked his audience of military officers, ''Is it happening again?'' Sure enough, the parallels are proliferating. Gulf of Tonkin attack, meet nonexistent W.M.D. and Al Qaeda links. ''Hearts and minds,'' meet ''welcome us as liberators.'' ''Light at the end of the tunnel,'' meet ''turned the corner.'' Vietnamization, meet the new Iraqi Army.
 Some say that Iraq isn't Vietnam because we've come to bring democracy, not to support a corrupt regime. But idealistic talk is cheap. In Vietnam, U.S. officials never said, ''We're supporting a corrupt regime.'' They said they were defending democracy. The rest of the world, and the Iraqis themselves, will believe in America's idealistic intentions if and when they see a legitimate, noncorrupt Iraqi government -- as opposed to, say, a rigged election that puts Ahmad Chalabi in charge.
 If we aren't promoting democracy in Iraq, what are we doing? Many of the more moderate supporters of the war have already reached the stage of quagmire logic: they no longer have high hopes for what we may accomplish, but they fear the consequences if we leave. The irony is painful. One of the real motives for the invasion of Iraq was to give the world a demonstration of American power. It's a measure of how badly things have gone that now we're told we can't leave because that would be a demonstration of American weakness.
 Again, the parallel with Vietnam is obvious. Remember the domino theory?
 And there's one more parallel: Nixonian politics is back.
 What we remember now is Watergate. But equally serious were Nixon's efforts to suppress dissent, like the ''Tell It to Hanoi'' rallies, where critics of the Vietnam War were accused of undermining the soldiers and encouraging the enemy. On Tuesday George Bush did a meta-Nixon: he declared that anyone who draws analogies between Iraq and Vietnam undermines the soldiers and encourages the enemy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); BUDGETS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TAX LAW (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Vietnam War; Public Opinion

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (91%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



359 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: It's Time for an End to Super Low Interest Rates

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN has bested the critics. Now the only test left is to see if he can bring interest rates back to normal levels without causing too much pain. Unhappily for the Federal Reserve chairman, however, the markets may not be willing to give him as much time as he would like to pull that off.
 In the late 1990's, Mr. Greenspan decided to ignore the growing bubble in technology stock prices. In 1996, he did mutter something about ''irrational exuberance,'' but he soon changed his tune and embraced the new economy. By the peak of the craziness, in early 2000, he was happily quoting absurd forecasts from Wall Street analysts. 
 There was no way to know if it was really a bubble, he said then. But if the bubble burst, he would know what to do. 
 And he did. Four years later, fears of deflation and of a prolonged economic slump have been quashed. 
 So why are investors not celebrating the news? The decline of bond prices in response to the strong economic news this week may not have been surprising, but the weakness of the stock market was. And why would evidence of a booming economy hurt commodity prices?
 An answer is that the Fed has kept short-term interest rates so low for so long that a lot of leveraged speculation has built up in what Wall Street calls the ''carry trade,'' so named because the expected profits from the investment are more than enough to carry the cost of borrowing money to finance it. That was particularly true for bonds, but it was also true for stocks, currencies and commodities. Banks and hedge funds seem to have a lot of carry trades.
 The strong retail sales numbers on Tuesday reminded traders that short-term rates had to rise some day. Leveraged investors appeared to be cutting back on their positions in everything from copper to currencies.
 Then came the inflation report, which indicated that rising commodity prices are finally being passed through to consumers. Heretofore, the highest inflation was in areas not subject to international competition, like college tuition, which is up 10.2 percent in the last 12 months, the biggest rise in more than a decade. But now prices are increasing even in areas where they had been falling.
 It has been convenient for the Fed to assume that any inflation threat and, therefore, any pressure to raise short-term interest rates, is far, far away. Speeches by Fed officials have played down inflation, and it will be interesting to see if that begins to change. ''They will find themselves with a big credibility problem if they do not acknowledge that there is more inflation than they expected,'' said Roger Kubarych, an economist with the HVB Group.
 By engineering negative real interest rates -- rates lower than the inflation rate -- Mr. Greenspan has bolstered the economy at the risk of encouraging speculation. Some of the increase in copper, from 60 cents a pound at the economic nadir in the fall of 2001 to a peak last month of almost $1.40, is because of rising demand from real users. But some of it reflects speculation on borrowed money. Similarly, the search for yield has allowed companies -- and countries -- with dicey credit to borrow money cheaply. 
 Markets are starting to realize that the economy is too strong to justify keeping short-term rates so low. A federal funds rate of 2.5 percent, far above the current 1 percent, might be reasonable. That will not happen quickly, but expectations are growing that the Fed will have to begin raising rates before November. Now the Fed needs to change expectations gradually so that speculative trades can be unwound without causing unnecessary damage to markets.
 ''The last trick Alan Greenspan has to pull off,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist of ITG/Hoenig, ''is to get the federal funds rate up from crazy easy and still have everyone live happily ever after.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TUITION FEES (64%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); RETAIL SALES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Interest Rates; Consumer Price Index

COMPANY: UNICREDIT BANK AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



360 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: The Sharon Plan of Disengagement

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
William Safire's column usually appears on Mondays and Wednesdays.E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
''Back in November, so many plans were around,'' Prime Minister Ariel Sharon told me yesterday just before heading back to Israel, ''from the Saudis, from Geneva, from the Arab League, and I saw we could not resist those pressures without a plan of our own. 
 ''What could I do -- destroy the Palestinian Authority? No -- Israel cannot take on its shoulders the lives of three and a half million Palestinians. Sign a peace agreement? No -- terror would only begin again. Leave as is? No -- I've seen everything in Israel since the War of Independence, and it's my responsibility to deal with it now. 
 ''I discussed this between me and myself and came up with a new initiative.'' He calls it the Disengagement Plan; it will be hailed and denounced as the Sharon Plan.
 Because Palestinian leaders have allowed terrorists to wage war against Israel, turning the well-intentioned ''road map'' into a dead letter, Sharon proposed to establish security without them. This involved not just a security fence, but for Sharon to say ''yes'' to calls to withdraw from Gaza and other exposed Israeli villages in the disputed West Bank. 
 ''I had to take this dangerous step of relocating some of our people,'' Sharon said. ''In Israel, the right does not like me to do it, and the left cannot do it. But you don't wait forever.''
 This week, President Bush stunned Arab dictators and their acolytes in the U.N. and the E.U. by taking the Sharon ''yes'' for an answer. For the first time, the U.S. government labeled as ''unrealistic'' the notion that Israel would be forced to ''a full and complete return to the armistice lines'' (rejecting the loaded word ''borders'') of 1949. That new realism covers ''existing major Israeli population centers,'' which Arabs call ''settlements.''
 The Bush document also applied realism to the device that Yasir Arafat used to break up the deal that President Bill Clinton thought he had brokered: a ''right to return'' that would swamp Israel with Palestinians. Bush made clear that refugees would return to a Palestinian state, not to take over the Jewish state. Sharon added: ''Don't create false expectations. Our answer will be no.''
 America's historic, unequivocal support of what the world knows must be part of a two-state solution puts pressure for peaceful negotiation where it belongs: on Palestinians, who must take control of their destiny away from fanatics sworn to destroy Israel. As Iraqis are also learning, free nationhood comes to those with the courage to control violent extremists.
 Bush prevailed on Sharon to ease the disruption of Palestinian lives along the the security fence, which I think will encompass the Ariel salient, and to delay a Jordan Valley barrier. Sharon will take all 7,500 Israelis out of Gaza by the end of next year, and the settlers' movement is infuriated.
 But having promised ''painful compromises'' -- code for withdrawals -- before his recent elections, Arik expects to remain in office through a Likud Party vote and possible coalition defection. ''I'm not boasting'' (he used the Russian word for boasting), ''but I am not suspected of compromising our security.'' If the far right parties desert him, he'll bring in Labor, headed by his old rival Shimon Peres. A threatened indictment? ''A terrible libel.'' 
 He speaks highly of Colin Powell and almost reverently about Bush: ''Something in his soul committed him to act with great courage against world terror. Though under constant pressure, the man has not changed his mind.'' 
 What does he think John Kerry's reaction will be to the Sharon Plan? ''I hope to meet with him when I come back next month.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TERRORISM (70%); REFUGEES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations; European Union

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%) William Safire; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton; Yasir Arafat; Colin L (Sec) Powell; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) Israel; Gaza Strip; West Bank; Israel

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



361 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks To Put Focus On Economy In Iowa Visit

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: DES MOINES, April 15 

 BODY:
With the strengthening economy overshadowed for weeks by the insurgency in Iraq and the investigation into the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, President Bush sought on Thursday to turn the spotlight to his tax cuts and the improving outlook for jobs.
 In a two-hour stop in Iowa, a state he lost in 2000 by little more than 4,000 votes, Mr. Bush used the occasion of the April 15 tax-filing deadline to renew his call to make permanent the tax cuts he has championed over the last three years and to assert that the economy is recovering nicely because of them.
 ''Things are improving,'' Mr. Bush said, ticking off positive statistics including the creation last month of 308,000 jobs, the best performance in years. 
 With Mr. Bush struggling to hold on to the political advantage his campaign had assumed he would have this year on national security, the rebounding economy has become all the more important to him in his closely fought race with his Democratic rival in the presidential race, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts.
 Mr. Bush never mentioned Mr. Kerry in his speech, to a symposium on the rural economy. But the White House and the Treasury Department released statistics that they said showed the benefits, to individuals and the economy as a whole, of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, and the Bush campaign continued its effort to portray Mr. Kerry as intent on raising taxes.
 Mr. Kerry struck back, trying to turn the tables on Mr. Bush. In a speech at Howard University in Washington, Mr. Kerry said he would provide more tax cuts to the middle class than Mr. Bush would and asserted that the president had undermined the economy's long-term strength by saddling it with huge budget deficits.
 ''George Bush has made a big deal out of trying to convince America that he's lowered taxes for all Americans and that I'm going to come along and somehow raise taxes on Americans,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''He's misleading Americans one more time. There's a big truth deficit in this administration, and this president is busy trying to run away from his own record and create a phony one for someone else because he doesn't have a record to run on.'' 
 Mr. Bush used his appearance in Iowa, a farm state with a keen interest in exports, to reiterate his commitment to trade as an engine of economic growth, and to scoff at the argument being made by some Democrats that the United States should protect jobs by erecting more trade barriers. Yet even as he expressed his faith in the ability of Americans to compete and win on world markets, he acknowledged, more explicitly than he usually does, the anxiety that has come with globalization and outsourcing.
 ''And there is some uncertainty,'' he said. ''I mean, look, people are worried about finding work. There are families wondering whether or not their loved one can find a job close to home, because this is a changing economy.'' 
 Without the tax cuts of the past three years, the White House said, total economic output at the end of last year would have been 3 percent smaller and the unemployment rate would have been more than one percentage point higher, with more than 2 million more people out of work.
 The figures were part of an effort by the administration to develop a statistical case for Mr. Bush's tax policies and against those of Mr. Kerry. 
 Administration officials said the Treasury Department made the calculations on the basis of an economic model owned by Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm based in St. Louis.
 Joel Prakken, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, said his own company's estimates about the impact of the tax cuts were slightly lower than those of the administration but ''in the same direction.''
 ''The truth of the matter is that you don't know what would have happened otherwise,'' Mr. Prakken said. ''But I have no doubt that unemployment would have been higher without the tax cuts.''
 Other economists were more skeptical, noting that job creation in this economic recovery has lagged behind that in any previous rebound, including the so-called jobless recovery of the early 1990's.
 ''It's natural that people put out information on April 15,'' said William Gale, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a research organization that has been sharply critical of the Bush tax cuts. ''It is not natural to put out a statement that Americans have a choice between tax cuts and higher unemployment.''
 Outside economists generally agree that the tax cuts have given the economy at least a temporary lift. They are divided along partisan and ideological lines, though, about whether the scale and composition of Mr. Bush's tax reductions will help or hurt the economy in the long run after taking into account factors like the rising budget deficit. And liberal economists have increasingly been making a case that Mr. Bush's tax cuts and their effect on the deficit have constrained the government from putting money into other needs that have economic payoffs, including education and improved health care.
 In the end, economics, like politics, is local, and Iowa's economy illustrates both the opportunities and the difficulties facing Mr. Bush.
 If the state's job market is measured compared with where it stood when Mr. Bush took office in January 2001, it has lost ground. Since then, the state has lost 31,900 nonfarm jobs, a drop of 2.2 percent. The unemployment rate has gone from 3 percent when Mr. Bush was sworn in to 4.1 percent in February of this year, the latest month for which figures are available.
 But the economy in Iowa has turned up in the last year, with the state regaining some of the ground it lost in Mr. Bush's first two years in office. The number of jobs has risen by 5,200 since February 2003, a rounding error in percentage terms but a turnaround after several years of downturns. The unemployment rate has fallen slightly from 4.3 percent in February 2003.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush promoted his tax cuts at a symposium on the rural economy yesterday, then stopped at the Des Moines airport to greet members of the Iowa National Guard who had recently returned from Iraq. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); STATISTICS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



362 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 503 words

PERSON: Robert J. Harth

HEADLINE: A Full House for Impresario Robert J. Harth

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Robert J. Harth was not a demonstrative man, and a memorial in his honor yesterday at Carnegie Hall, where he was executive and artistic director, was similarly restrained. 
 Just four people spoke: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Carnegie Hall; Ara Guzelimian, Carnegie Hall's artistic administrator; and Sidney Harth, Mr. Harth's father. 
 Threading through their tributes was a common lament: this was someone taken from them too soon. ''It ain't fair,'' Mr. Weill said. Mr. Harth died on Jan. 30 of a heart attack at 47.
 Mr. Weill asked the capacity crowd ''to stand up and applaud the life of a terrific young man,'' giving Mr. Harth perhaps his first standing ovation at Carnegie Hall.
 The mayor spoke of Mr. Harth as ''an island of calm.''
 ''He had a serenity and a charm that was nearly miraculous,'' Mr. Bloomberg added. ''He was a friend, even if you'd never met him before.''
 The senior Mr. Harth called him ''a gentle but insistent leader.'' 
 In part it was Mr. Harth's laid-back warmth and understated authority that made such a strong impression, people said yesterday. But it was also the way he steered Carnegie Hall through one rigorous test after another in just 28 months on the job: the terrorist attack and resulting economic blow to cultural institutions; the death of Isaac Stern, Carnegie Hall's guardian angel; the merger negotiations with the New York Philharmonic; and the opening of Zankel Hall.
 ''He guided us through some of the most difficult and challenging days in the hall's history,'' Mr. Guzelimian said. ''He was absolutely fearless of innovation.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said that the broader programming that Mr. Harth had brought to Zankel Hall and Carnegie Hall would have lasting influence. ''They're called impresarios when they succeed and bureaucrats when they don't,'' he said. ''Robert was the former.''
 Although Mr. Harth's tastes ranged from Lyle Lovett to Glenn Gould, his colleagues gave their former chief a more modest musical send-off, with four pieces, each with particular significance: Claude Debussy's ''String Quartet in G Minor,'' because it was played by Mr. Harth's friends in the Emerson String Quartet; Brahms' ''Intermezzo in A,'' played by Mr. Harth's friend the pianist Emanuel Ax; ''Our Love Is Here to Stay,'' because George Gershwin died young just before he finished it and because it was sung by Audra McDonald, who had performed at Carnegie Hall under Mr. Harth; and Bach's ''Concerto in D Minor'' by the Met Chamber Ensemble, because that piece was part of his childhood. His parents, the elder Mr. Harth and Teresa Testa Harth, were professional violinists. 
 But when it came time to show a few slides of Mr. Harth -- beaming with his parents as a boy, standing under a new concert tent built during his tenure as president of the Aspen Festival in the 1990's, greeting Marilyn Horne as Carnegie Hall's top executive -- the only accompaniment in the venerable hall reputed to have the best acoustics in the world was silence.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Emerson String Quartet, who were friends of Robert J. Harth, at his memorial service. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (86%); DEATHS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (64%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%)

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); SANDY WEILL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



363 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE GUN GROUP

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: N.R.A. Opens an All-Out Drive for Bush and Its Views

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, April 15 

 BODY:
When the National Rifle Association opens its annual meeting here on Friday, it will do more than celebrate hunting, weaponry and the Second Amendment. It will also kick off a vigorous campaign to whip up support among its nearly four million members for President Bush's re-election. 
 Before tens of thousands of gun owners at the Pittsburgh Convention Center, the association's leadership plans to label Mr. Bush's likely Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, as a liberal threat to gun ownership. It is a message they will repeat again and again until Election Day, using the Internet, mailings, television advertising and their formidable nationwide network of gun clubs.
 ''What you see in John Kerry,'' Wayne LaPierre, the association's executive vice president said in an interview this week, ''is a politician that spent his life voting against the Second Amendment. What I see is the same thing I saw in Michael Dukakis and Al Gore. It's an elitist arrogance.'' 
 It is no accident, N.R.A. officials said, that this year's convention is being held in Pittsburgh. Two-thirds of the attendees are expected to come from within a 100-mile radius that spans three battleground states: Pennsylvania, which voted for Mr. Gore in 2000, and Ohio and West Virginia, which voted for Mr. Bush.
 ''These are states where the N.R.A. can make a difference,'' said G. Terry Madonna, director of the Keystone Poll at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa.
 At the convention, the association also plans to unveil plans for an N.R.A. news company that would produce programs for the Internet, radio and possibly television, Mr. LaPierre said. A daily Internet news talk show featuring a conservative host will begin broadcasting online on Friday. The association hopes to announce acquisition of a radio station within two months, he said.
 Creating a private news company would allow the association to disseminate its gun-rights views without having to follow new federal campaign finance restrictions, which prohibit the use of unlimited ''soft money'' close to a presidential or Congressional election, Mr. LaPierre said. The association and other groups challenged those restrictions, but lost.
 ''We have every bit as much a right to provide news and information to the American public as Disney has through ABC, Time-Warner has through CNN and News Corporation does through Fox,'' Mr. LaPierre said. ''If you own the outlet, you can say whatever you want. This an act of defiance, but it is completely in keeping with the law.'' 
 The boost from the rifle association also comes at an opportune time for Mr. Bush, who is facing unexpectedly sharp criticism from some gun rights activists for his position on a federal ban of assault weapons. 
 The president has said he would sign legislation renewing the 1994 law that bans 19 types of semiautomatic weapons. That almost certainly will not happen this year because of opposition to the legislation in the Republican-controlled House. Many conservatives consider the bill a deep infringement of their rights under the Second Amendment, which they contend gives individual Americans the right to own firearms.
 ''Gun owners who know the issues know that Bush is all talk,'' said Angel Shamaya, executive director of KeepAndBearArms.com, which is encouraging gun owners to vote for anyone but Mr. Bush. ''He's turned out to be a phony in so many ways, I'm embarrassed I voted for him in 2000.''
 The Bush campaign has begun trying to mend fences with gun groups by meeting with members and appointing liaisons to the groups in almost every state. A 27,000 member Sportsmen for Bush group has reactivated. And the president met with leaders of the N.R.A. and an array of hunting and fishing groups at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., last week. 
 But the White House's biggest move has been to dispatch Vice President Dick Cheney, a popular figure among gun owners, to the convention, where he will deliver the keynote speech on Saturday night.
 ''There is a clear choice in this election between President Bush, who is a strong supporter of the Second Amendment and bill of rights, and Senator Kerry, who has a record of weakening those rights,'' said Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney campaign. On Monday, the president is scheduled to be at the Pittsburgh convention center for a campaign event for Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania. Though the White House said Mr. Bush did not have plans to stop by an N.R.A. board meeting that will be going on next door, officials of the association say they hope he will, to send a strong message of support to gun owners. 
 Grover Norquist, an influential conservative strategist and association board member who is close to the White House, called the president's position on the assault weapon ban ''a hiccup,'' but nevertheless a potential problem. ''The president has been so good both in the campaign and in governing,'' Mr. Norquist said. ''This is the one high profile part of the center-right coalition's agenda that they got wrong.'' 
 For its part, the rifle association will try to paint Mr. Kerry, a decorated Vietnam veteran who says he has been a lifelong hunter, as a Kennedy-style liberal who supports strong gun restrictions -- a ''gun grabber,'' in the group's lingo.
 Though the association's political action committee has yet to make an endorsement in the presidential race, its support for Mr. Bush is a foregone conclusion. The association backed him in 2000.
 One of the first things convention attendees will receive in Pittsburgh is the latest issue of the association's monthly magazine, which features a cover photograph of Mr. Kerry posing triumphantly with Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Charles E. Schumer and Diane Feinstein after they helped defeat legislation intended to protect the gun industry from lawsuits. The association had made the bill one of its top priorities this year.
 ''You talk about the four horsemen of apocalypse -- that's the picture,'' Mr. LaPierre said.
 The rifle association has also created a Web site devoted to attacking the federal ban on assault weapons, Clintongunban.com. The name of the site underscores the association's central strategy: to link Mr. Kerry to former President Bill Clinton, who remains widely reviled by conservative gun owners. 
 Mr. LaPierre declined to say how much the group plans to spend on campaigns this year. The association has been plagued by operating deficits, but its political action committee still has more than $4 million on hand, according to recent federal reports. In 2000, it spent $16.8 million on federal campaigns.
 Clearly, the Bush administration values the rifle association's help. 
 At last year's N.R.A. convention in Florida, Gov. Jeb Bush, the president's brother, told members, ''If it were not for your active involvement, it is safe to say that my brother would not have been elected president.''
 Aides to Mr. Kerry contend the association's influence has been grossly exaggerated. Most gun owners are more concerned about the economy and Iraq this year than gun control, the aides contend.
 But they acknowledge that the N.R.A. was effective in defining Mr. Gore as a threat to gun owners' rights in 2000, and vowed that Mr. Kerry will be quicker to counter such assertions. 
 The Democrats expect to recruit labor unions to disseminate Mr. Kerry's positions on guns, and to have Mr. Kerry meet with sportsmen's groups and perhaps go hunting. Chad Clanton, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign, said Mr. Kerry intended to present himself as ''a lifelong hunter and gun owner'' who believes in protecting the Second Amendment but also supports ''common sense'' laws restricting military-style assault weapons and requiring gun-safety locks.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The National Rifle Association's convention opening today in Pittsburgh is also the temporary quarters of John Krull, top, of the Second Amendment Foundation, and Chris Johns, of the CZ-USA gun company. (Photographs by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (68%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (68%); NETWORK TELEVISION (67%) Firearms; Gun Control; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (80%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (94%); SECOND AMENDMENT FOUNDATION (59%) National Rifle Assn

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (57%) James Dao; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004



364 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Tappan Zee Awaits Fix, Or Perhaps A Successor

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
It's an aging bridge, choked by traffic, and state planners agree that the Tappan Zee is badly in need of an extreme makeover, or at least the engineering equivalent of a tummy tuck.
 Now they have new price tags to go along with the menu of options for preventing the bridge and Interstate 287 from going the bumper-to-bumper way of the Cross-Bronx Expressway. A cool $20 billion would fetch the deluxe plan -- a tunnel that would carry both highway and rail traffic. At the opposite end of the spectrum, simply renovating the existing bridge would cost $3.5 billion. 
 The $20 billion figure, which was revealed by planners with Metro-North Railroad and the New York State Thruway Authority at a public hearing Thursday in Nyack, is about five times the cost projected four years ago. The planners traced much of the discrepancy to the fact that initial numbers were based on preliminary engineering estimates, which have changed as details have been refined.
 For the past year, planners with Metro-North Railroad and the New York Thruway, charged with developing a plan to resolve the traffic problems and chart a future for the bridge, have been holding public hearings on scenarios to best resolve those issues. That process is winding down with 15 options, down from 156, currently being discussed. Officials expect to thin that list to no more than five options, which they will unveil by July for further consideration. An environmental impact study would follow the choice of a plan and would take about two years to complete.
 ''It's still not over, but we're getting closer,'' said Janet M. Mainiero, deputy project manager for the Tappan Zee/I-287 Project.
 Beyond the construction of a tunnel, the alternatives being examined include building a new bridge, rehabilitating the existing bridge, and adding a mass transit component to the crossing like commuter or light rail or bus rapid transit. The new cost projections were reported yesterday in The Journal-News of Westchester.
 Although the Tappan Zee Bridge, which stretches three miles across the Hudson River connecting Rockland and Westchester counties, is still considered safe, it is handling far more traffic than it was designed for when it was built 48 years ago. About 130,000 vehicles a day use the bridge, which was designed to carry about 100,000 vehicles. At the time of its construction, the bridge was expected to last about 50 years.
 Project consulants anticipate that traffic will increase by about 48 percent by 2025 and predict that if nothing is done, I-287 will look like the Cross-Bronx Expressway does today.
 In putting a price tag on the options, planners projected it would cost $4 billion to $5.5 billion to create a commuter rail line linking Suffern to the Hudson Line of Metro-North and would take an additional $1 billion to $3 billion to continue across Westchester to the New Haven line in Port Chester.
 High-speed light rail was estimated to cost $4 billion to $5.5 billion with rapid bus service costing $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
 A budget has not yet been set for the project and it is anticipated that what ultimately will be arrived at is a mix of solutions.
 ''The one that seemed to best address improved mobility and was over all the most economical was a new bridge with a commuter light-rail element,'' said Thom Kleiner, supervisor of Orangetown, which sits at the base of the bridge in Rockland County.
 That alternative -- -- with light rail running from Suffern to Port Chester -- -- has an estimated cost of $8 billion to $10 billion.
 While the tunnel option is estimated to cost about twice that amount, it also creates the most disruption on both sides of the bridge, requiring block-long vents on both shores and overshooting two exits on Interstate 287. It would also have to be at least nine miles long, making it one of the longest tunnels in the world.
 Whatever option is chosen, Mr. Kleiner said he hoped officials would be careful about how much capacity they create for new traffic.
 ''We want to improve mobility without contributing to sprawl,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Consulants anticipate that traffic on the Tappan Zee Bridge will increase by about 48 percent by 2025. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 A view of the Tappan Zee Bridge from Nyack, N.Y. The bridge handles far more traffic than it was designed for when it was built 48 years ago. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (74%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



365 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: City in Deal to Restore Piers to Former Port-of-Call Glory

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
New York City and two major cruise lines have agreed on the outline of a deal that would guarantee 10 years of dockings and huge fees, enabling the city, in turn, to carry out a $150 million redevelopment of the frayed passenger ship terminals on Manhattan's West Side and to build a new cruise ship terminal on the Brooklyn waterfront, an executive familiar with the arrangement said yesterday.
 While many details of the agreement remained to be worked out, the executive said that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was expected to announce the framework of the pact on Monday. It could propel the city into a new era of passenger ship glory, recovering some of its panache as a premier port for liners and bringing millions of travelers into town to stay in hotels, dine in restaurants and see Broadway shows.
 City officials declined last night to confirm or deny the reported deal. The executive who disclosed it spoke on the condition of anonymity, noting that many of its conditions were still the subject of delicate negotiations that would continue over the weekend. 
 Under the arrangement, the executive said, Carnival Cruise Lines and the Norwegian Cruise Line, which together account for 80 percent of the burgeoning cruise traffic in the city, would guarantee a definite number of dockings over the next decade -- the number could not be learned -- and the large fees the city would collect for them.
 The city, for its part, would agree to refurbish the outmoded, overcrowded West Side Passenger Ship Terminals -- five berths on three piers between 48th and 52nd Streets on the Hudson -- including the creation of a superberth for the new generation of enormous cruise ships. 
 The deal would also break a logjam in which the city has wavered for more than a year over a plan to build a passenger terminal in Brooklyn. Carnival Corporation, which operates 17 cruise lines and is the world's largest cruise operator, proposed a $100 million terminal last year but the city rejected it. 
 The disclosure of the arrangement comes as the city prepares for the arrival of the new $800 million Queen Mary 2, the world's largest passenger ship and first trans-Atlantic liner to be built in 30 years. The 1,132-foot vessel, carrying more than 2,600 passengers, is scheduled to arrive in New York for the first time at 8 a.m. on Thursday. Matt Lauer of NBC's ''Today'' show will broadcast from the ship.
 The Queen Mary 2 is to dock at the West Side Passenger Terminal, where its stern will jut 132 feet beyond the pier's end into the Hudson, an incongruity that is increasingly part of the problem of New York and its docks. The West Side terminal, last renovated in 1970, is far too small and too poorly equipped to handle either the number or size of the cruise ships of today and tomorrow. 
 During the cruise season, from May to October, as many as 10,000 passengers a day may debark and embark simultaneously, creating turmoil in the gloomy warehouselike terminals and nightmarish traffic jams outside. Passengers and cruise lines have long complained that the piers present a crumbling and decrepit portal to glittering Manhattan.
 The problem is complex, but relatively simple in outline: The cruise industry has been booming in recent years, despite shipboard viruses and other problems. The number of passengers embarking from North American ports has increased by 47 percent since 1998 to about eight million last year, according to the Cruise Lines International Association, the industry trade group. Even in New York, the growth has been spectacular, with passenger increases jumping more than 157 percent in the same period, to about 450,000 last year, and the median age of passengers declining as well. 
 Rushing to meet the need, Carnival, Royal Caribbean, Oceania, Cunard and Holland America have been building larger and faster ships to get passengers to and from the Caribbean. Some ships carry more than 3,000 passengers. Meanwhile, many American ports -- Baltimore; Philadelphia; Galveston, Tex.; Jacksonville, Fla.; Mobile, Ala.; and Norfolk, Va., almost anyplace that has deep enough water -- are enthusiastically competing for the business.
 But New York City, according to critics in the cruise industry, has dragged its feet, studying the problem again and again. City officials admitted they were caught flat-footed last December when Royal Caribbean International announced that it would move its Nordic Empress and its 3,114-passenger Voyager of the Seas to Bayonne, N.J., this spring, giving up the glamour of Manhattan for a port 10 miles south with fewer problems. 
 City officials acknowledged that they were running to catch up. They said they were working hard on a plan to upgrade the West Side terminal, including the installation of elevators and escalators, and on longer-term plans to build a new passenger ship terminal in Brooklyn. 
 But cruise industry executives voiced pessimism over the city's ability to finance the projects and to get moving on them. Unlike Royal Caribbean, Carnival said that New York remained its port of choice, and proposed building a $100 million passenger superterminal at Pier 7, at the foot of Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, that would accommodate the QM2. The company offered to pay about three-quarters of the cost. 
 But the city refused to embrace the plan, and an economic development official said that New York intended to invest $250 million over the next decade in passenger terminals, including two berths in Red Hook. But the official said it was unclear where the money would come from. The Brooklyn terminal would be built under the pact with the city, but it was not clear where, according to the executive who described the arrangement.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Royal Caribbean International's cruise ship Adventure of the Seas, as it prepared to dock on the West Side of Manhattan in November 2001. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (94%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (93%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (55%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (93%); NCLH (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (93%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



366 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Shows Sharp Rise, but Other Indicators Fall

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
Housing construction rebounded in March, rising by 6.4 percent, the largest increase in 10 months, the Commerce Department reported Friday. But other reports showed that production at industries fell, and consumer sentiment declined, according to the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for April, which dipped to 93.2 from 95.8 in March.
 The Commerce Department reported Friday that the number of residential projects that builders started last month clocked in at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of two million units, representing a 6.4 percent rise from February. 
 In another report, production at factories, mines and utilities dipped 0.2 percent in March, after two months of strong increases, the Federal Reserve said. Industrial production rose 0.7 percent in January and 0.8 percent in February. 
 ''It shows what every manufacturer knows -- business is volatile, growing in spurts, not in a smooth pattern,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist at the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a research group. ''The report should be seen as a temporary pause in the context of a solid industrial expansion.'' 
 Manufacturing output, which had registered a 1.1 percent surge in February, was flat last month. 
 The overall industrial production number in March was also held down by a 2.3 percent plunge in output at gas and electric utilities, the sharpest decline in a year. That reflected a decrease in demand because of unseasonably warm weather, the Fed said. In February, output at utilities declined 0.8 percent. 
 Output at mines, meanwhile, slipped 0.3 percent in March, after a 0.1 percent rise in February. 
 While the industrial sector, hardest hit by the 2001 recession, has experienced an uneven path to recovery, the housing market has been thriving in an environment of relatively low mortgage rates. 
 The advance in housing construction, the largest since last May, came after two consecutive months of declines. Bad weather, which forced construction delays in some parts of the country, was cited for those declines. 
 March's performance was stronger than analysts were expecting. They were forecasting housing starts to rise to around 1.9 million units. 
 Recent economic reports showing an increase in job creation, retail sales and consumer prices have all added to speculation in financial markets that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates in coming months. 
 That has caused long-term mortgage rates to climb. Rates on 30-year mortgages rose to 5.89 percent this week, the highest since early December. Still, economists say that home sales, which hit record highs last year, will remain healthy this year. 
 While economists have differing opinions on when the Fed may start to increase short-term rates, they do agree that it will not be at the central bank's next meeting on May 4. Economists widely expect Fed policy makers to hold short-term rates at a 45-year low of 1 percent at that time. 
 By region, new residential projects under way in March rose 10.6 percent in the Midwest, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 386,000. In the South, housing construction increased 8.5 percent, to a rate of 945,000 units, and in the West, housing starts rose 3.7 percent, to a pace of 502,000. But in the Northeast, new housing projects dipped 4.9 percent, to a rate of 174,000. 
 Permits filed to build new housing projects -- a good measure of current demand -- rose 1.9 percent in March from February, to a rate of 1.9 million units. The rise in permits came after two consecutive months of declines. 
 Home builders, meanwhile, feel good about prospects for home sales in April as well as for the next six months, according to a monthly survey by the National Association of Home Builders.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates.MarchStarts: 2.007Permits: 1.946Graph tracks housing started and permits authorized during the month in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from October 2002 to March 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted.March: -0.2%Feb.: +0.8Jan.: +0.7Graph tracks Index of total industrial production from October 2002 to March 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve)Chart: ''Capacity Utilization''Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.Operating RatesMarch: 76.5%Feb.: 76.7Jan.: 76.2Graph tracks total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, from October 2002 to March 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); HOUSING STARTS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); WEATHER (69%); JOB CREATION (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



367 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7

U.S. Soldier Held Captive By Iraqi Militants
An American soldier was shown being held captive by six armed and masked men on a videotape broadcast on an Arab news network. The soldier has been missing for a week, and a voice on the tape said he was being held to trade for Iraqi prisoners in the hands of Americans. A1

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell warned President Bush about the potential negative consequences of a war two months before the invasion of Iraq, according to the book by Bob Woodward. A1

New Arrests in Madrid Bombing
Spain's conservative government announced it had made three more arrests of suspected Islamic militants on its last day before turning over power to the Socialists. The three new suspects were a Moroccan, an Egyptian and Saudi, all of whom had contacts with a presumed leader of the bombing attack. A3

African Party Seals Position
President Thabo Mbeki's African National Congress party claimed 69.7 percent of the vote in South Africa's general elections, burying its nearest challenger and bitter rival, the Democratic Alliance. A4

Seoul Court Ignores Voters
Impeachment proceedings for President Roh Moo Hyun will go forward despite South Korean voters' displeasure, expressed at the polls. The political upheaval has some American officials worried that the commitment to send 3,000 more troops to Iraq this year may weaken. A4

U.N. Corruption Panel Stalled
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan has chosen the former Federal Reserve chairman Paul A. Volcker to head up an independent panel investigating corruption in the United Nations' oil-for-food program. But an objection by Russia may keep him from accepting. A7

NATIONAL A8-10, 16

Immigration Security Steps Seen as Largely Ineffective
The panel investigating the Sept. 11 attacks has concluded that immigration policies promoted as essential to keeping the country safe from future attacks have been largely ineffective, producing little, if any, information leading to the identification or apprehension of terrorists. A8

'Apprentice' to Lead Project
Donald Trump named Bill Rancic, 32, left, who won ''The Apprentice'' on NBC and once made a living selling cigars on the Web, as ''president'' of a $700 million project, which still needs financing and approval, to build a 90-story hotel and condominium tower in Chicago. A1

Social Issues Tied to Election
Advocacy groups are mobilizing around issues like gay marriage and abortion rights, convinced that the consensus of the next election could be locked in for a generation. A10

Workers' Compensation, 2.0
The California legislature passed changes to the state's workers' compensation system. A8

H.I.V. Scare Halts Adult Films
Two actors in pornographic films have been infected with the virus that causes AIDS, virtually shutting down California's multimillion-dollar pornographic movie industry. A11

Religion Journal A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Retesting Hormone Therapy
Researchers at a group of major medical centers have decided to test the hormone therapy again despite studies finding that the treatment after menopause did women more harm than good. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Top Law Firm Withdraws From City's Gun Suit
Weil, Gotshal & Manges is withdrawing from a New York City lawsuit against the gun industry after clients complained about its role. A1

Tappan Zee to Get Face-Lift
Planners with Metro-North Railroad and the New York Thruway, charged with developing a plan to rehabilitate the Tappan Zee Bridge and decrease traffic on it, have arrived at 15 options. The cost estimates range from $3.5 billion to $20 billion. B1

Inmate to Keep Writing Prize
Barbara Parsons Lane, a Connecticut inmate who won a PEN/Newman's Own First Amendment Award for her contribution to a book, will be able to collect the award's $25,000 prize, the state decided. B1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

EDUCATION

Strike Looms at Columbia
Graduate student teaching assistants have threatened to go on strike and remain out until the university recognizes their right to form a union, which could shut down hundreds of classes through the end of the school year. B3

OBITUARIES A13

ARTS & IDEAS B7-17

Studying a Retail Giant
Sociologists, anthropologists and historians gathered for a conference on Wal-Mart. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Ernst Barred for 6 Months
Ernst & Young was barred from accepting any new audit clients in the United States for six months after a judge found that the firm acted improperly by auditing a company with which it had a highly profitable business relationship. A1

Inflation vs. Spending
The inflation rate, barely noticeable for years, is picking up in the United States. C1

Nokia in a Slump
Nokia shares touched a 13-month low as investors began choosing other cellphone makers regarded as likely to tap into a market of fleeting fashions and fickle loyalties. C1

Dow Gains, Nasdaq Falls
The Dow rose 54.51 points, to 10,451.97, 9.94 points above last week's close. The Nasdaq fell 6.43 points, to 1,995.74, 57.14 points below last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: At last, a good development; the perils of cutting Medicaid; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the recording industry's soldiering on against illegal downloading.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B13
Weather B18


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (67%); CONDOMINIUMS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (60%); RELIGION (54%); MARRIAGE (50%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); THABO MBEKI (55%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



368 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Airport Pits Natives Against Outsiders on Japanese Isle

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: ISHIGAKI ISLAND, Japan 

 BODY:
This tiny Japanese island in the East China Sea is, as a signpost near city hall indicates, a mere 170 miles from Taiwan but 1,200 miles from Tokyo.
 As evidence of the spiritual distance from the rest of Japan, the locals here do not say that a new resident has ''moved'' here from the mainland. Instead, they use the word ''immigrate,'' as if this were another country.
 Which it was, at one point, before it was absorbed by bigger islands in Okinawa, then ruled by Japan, then the United States, and Japan once again. Today, the island's leaders do not speak of achieving political independence, but they want more economic autonomy. 
 To that end, they want to build a new airport that will allow more planes to bring tourists to this subtropical island of 46,000 people and to ship out more pineapples, mangos and fish. Blocking them is a group of 522 people -- almost all nonlocals who, worried about the environmental effects of a new airport, bought a tiny parcel of the land allocated for the airport and are refusing to sell it.
 The battle has dragged on for a generation, pitting Ishigaki, a place of ancient rivalries and fiercely guarded secrets, against what have sometimes seemed to them Kafkaesque forces a world away in Tokyo. But now, with the study of a fourth plan nearing completion, the fight, too, may be drawing to a close. White banners demanding a new airport have been unfurled all over the island, a final battle cry against the outsiders.
 ''I wonder why they are opposing it if they don't live here?'' said Gako Tamashiro, 78, a retired fisherman who was sitting under the sun with some friends, asking the question that has always been at the heart of the matter.
 Ishigaki, as a microcosm of the Japanese archipelago, has always treated outsiders with extreme suspicion. Ikuko Ishigaki, 85, who like many natives of this place has this island's name as her surname, stood outside her food store and, asked to describe people from the main island of Okinawa, raised her index fingers on either side of her head -- they are devils, she said, with an unseemly hunger for profit.
 Talk of a new airport began soon after Ishigaki and the rest of Okinawa reverted from the United States to Japan in 1972. The airport then and now -- a small terminal attached to a short runway of 4,900 feet, in an urbanized area -- was considered insufficient and is now the busiest airport of its category in Japan.
 In 1982, a plane was unable to stop after landing, overshooting the runway, skidding into a sugar cane field and catching fire. A gas station is now located there. To this day, pilots must quickly apply the brakes after landing and then make a U-turn to taxi near the terminal.
 The first plan, reflecting an era when Japan was little concerned about the environment, called for a 6,500-foot runway to be built on landfill over the southeastern edge of the island, over the world's largest surviving blue coral reef. The plan, which caused an outcry both on and off the island, was abandoned in 1989.
 The fourth and current plan -- the first one drawn up by the island and not by prefectural officials -- would place the airport and its 6,500-foot runway entirely on land, in an area occupied mostly by a golf course. Even opponents admit that most of the islanders favor this plan. Environmentalists argue that the region contains precious wildlife, like bats, and that construction would cause red soil erosion that would smother the blue coral.
 ''I feel resentful,'' Yoshitaka Nakayama, 36, leader of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, said of the group blocking the development. ''We share the same feelings that we need to preserve nature. But balance is the issue. I'd like to meet them and find common ground. There are some people who oppose just to oppose.''
 During visits to Tokyo, Mr. Nakayama said chamber officials had tried in vain to meet the leader of the 522 land owners, Toru Ikushima. Of the 522, only 10 are people who were born and still live here, property documents show. Most live in Tokyo and Osaka.
 In Tokyo, Mr. Ikushima said that one time he had been given only three days' notice of the visit; on another occasion, he learned that some islanders had come to his apartment, unannounced, during his absence.
 ''That was very rude, a bunch of people all of a sudden knocking on my door,'' Mr. Ikushima said.
 Over lunch at a Denny's, where he usually meets reporters, Mr. Ikushima said that building a new airport would kill the blue coral.
 ''That would be the equivalent of destroying Bamian,'' he said, referring to the giant Buddhas blown up by the Taliban in Afghanistan.
 Mr. Ikushima, who has led the anti-airport campaign for two decades, said the group's property -- about 16,750 square feet -- was centrally located so that the airport could not be built around it. He favored expanding the existing airport by forcing local residents to move.
 ''That will be better for the local economy, too, since local contractors will be hired to build new houses elsewhere,'' he said.
 Islanders, appalled by such a suggestion, pointed out that the area around the airport had long been inhabited and contained sacred indigenous shrines.
 ''They don't live here so they don't understand,'' Nagateru Ohama, Ishigaki's mayor, said of the opponents. ''We're trying our best to survive here. We were born here, and we'll die here. And to live, we need this airport. I want Mr. Ikushima to understand that inside his own heart.''
 Bats?
 ''You can find them all over this island. Everyone knows that.''
 The mayor, who has met Mr. Ikushima, said they were on good terms, though he added, with an expressionless face: ''We haven't seen him here lately. I wonder what would happen to him if he stepped foot on this island. He might be surrounded.''
 Mr. Ohama, a doctor who used to run a hospital here, opposed the landfill project of the 1980's. But a new airport is necessary, he said, to ensure that planes can transport patients during emergencies. That was his life's goal, he said, adding that he would retire as mayor once the airport was approved.
 Yoshiko Motomura, 66, one of the few opponents living here, waved away the mayor's talk of medical care, saying that was just an excuse. 
 Mrs. Motomura, who came here from Yokohama, and her Ishigaki-born husband, Keiwa, 69, run an inn that has become the unofficial headquarters of local opponents. A few are natives; most are people who ''immigrated'' here, seeking a different kind of life. 
 Naoko Nakamura, 57, moved two years ago from Osaka, where her family had lived for generations. Seeing Ishigaki for the first time had surpassed any ''fantasy,'' she said. She was now enjoying a quiet life, working at a bakery. She has also become a landowner, of several square feet, as one of the 522 co-owners.
 ''We don't need a new airport, do we?'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Keiwa Motomura, 69, and his wife run an inn on Ishigaki Island that has become the unofficial headquarters for opponents of a proposed airport. Most residents and political leaders of the island appear to favor it.
 Gako Tamashiro, 78, a retired fisherman who supports building the airport, wondered why people from off the island were trying to block it. (Photographs by Masafumi Yamamoto for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) EAST CHINA SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (98%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



369 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Duck Inflation's Punch

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE; Ian Urbina, in New York, and Mindy Sink, in Denver, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The inflation rate, barely noticeable for years, is picking up again in the United States. And even if many American families have yet to curtail their spending, they are certainly annoyed. 
 Ask Katie O'Malley, 18, and her mother, Amy. While shopping in Bloomingdale's in Manhattan on Thursday they discovered that a gown for Katie's senior prom would be $100 more than they paid last year in the same store for a comparable dress for her junior prom. Having traveled to New York from their home in Newark, Del., to take advantage of the greater selection, they finally settled on a $320 gown at Saks -- still $40 more than they paid last year. 
 ''We were a little shocked,'' Mrs. O'Malley said. 
 Inflation seems to be back. Americans are definitely noticing, and they are beginning to take evasive action. As grocery prices rise, some families are shifting to Sam's Clubs and other warehouse operations offering lower prices than neighborhood supermarkets. Others are spending more time in search of gasoline at less than $2 a gallon, sometimes visiting three or four service stations before finally making a purchase. Still others are ordering prescription drugs from Canada to avoid rising pharmaceutical prices within the United States. 
 No one is yet talking about the sort of double-digit inflation that plagued the economy in the late 1970's and much of the 1980's. And economists are far from certain that the surprisingly sharp increase in the Consumer Price Index so far this year -- 5.1 percent on an annualized basis -- will continue. But the price squeeze now being felt by people like the O'Malleys, after more than a decade of persistently low inflation, adds a new source of worry for a consumer economy already plagued by a weak job market and stagnant wages. 
 ''The real danger is that you get the inflation but not the corresponding wage increases,'' said Dean Baker, a senior economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research. ''As purchasing power declines, people will either buy less, hurting the recovery, or go deeper into debt.'' 
 The concern about inflation shows up in interviews with consumers and in various surveys, including the latest reading from the University of Michigan's surveys of consumer. The March survey picked up a growing concern about inflation. Most of the worry was among low-income families. The April survey, released yesterday, showed that families with incomes above $50,000 -- like the O'Malleys -- were also beginning to notice.
 ''People expect a much higher inflation rate than they did just a few months ago,'' said Richard T. Curtin, director of the Michigan survey. The main concern for the nation's consumers, Mr. Curtin said, is the sharp increase in gasoline prices. Fuel prices spiked last year, too, and then subsided, and that is the current expectation of the people surveyed. This time, however, the inflation is broader than fuel and the other notoriously volatile category, food. The price increases include apparel and hotel rooms as well as other components that economists measure as ''core'' inflation. The inflation data have rattled the financial markets enough to push up the average interest rate on 30-year mortgages to about 6 percent from 5.4 percent last month. In response, mortgage refinancing applications have dropped 45 percent in just two weeks, depriving consumers of an important source of additional cash, the Mortgage Bankers Association reports.
 So far, though, there has been no perceivable decline in the number of new mortgages to purchase homes, according to Douglas Duncan, the association's chief economist. ''To seriously cut into home sales,'' Mr. Duncan said, ''you have to have 30-year mortgage rates at 7 percent or more.'' 
 Some of the March run-up in the Consumer Price Index was a statistical fluke, says Patrick Jackman, a senior economist in the division at the Bureau of Labor Statistics that compiles the monthly index. The big jump in apparel prices, for example, reflected purchasing of spring and summer clothing that was unusually high in March, Mr. Jackman said, because retailers were still trying to unload excess winter inventory well into February, after an unexpectedly weak Christmas shopping season. 
 In more typical years, purchases of spring and winter garments, at higher prices than winter clothing, are usually spread out over the first three months of the year, which makes the price increases less noticeable in any one month, Mr. Jackman said. As the weeks pass, apparel prices are likely to drop as consumers fill their wardrobes and purchase less summer wear, he said. 
 But many other increases are harder to explain away. ''They are incremental,'' Mr. Jackman said, ''but broad based.''
 Jeffrey and Carol Carr in Denver know that. Mr. Carr is a 39-year-old software salesman with a six-figure income who drives many miles a week, and has taken to checking at least three stations near his home for discounts before finally making a purchase -- usually at close to $2 a gallon. ''The difference may be only a nickel a gallon, but that adds up,'' he said. Still, he is driving as much as ever, he says, and has not considered trading his sport utility vehicle for a more fuel-efficient car.
 The Carrs' 5-year-old daughter has leukemia, and a cream that reduces the pain from the numerous inoculations she receives has risen in recent months to $50 from $35. ''If we ask the doctors, they just say the drug company has raised the price; they don't like to talk about it,'' Mr. Carr said. So he and his wife order the cream now from Canada, at $15 for the same quantity. 
 The Carrs say their weekly grocery bill has also risen, although not by enough for them to bother to calculate the amounts. Still, they shop more often at a nearby Sam's Club, and less frequently at Safeway or King Soopers. ''We just get larger quantities at lower prices,'' Mr. Carr said.
 Some lower-income people are cutting back. Ruty Fouzailoff, 34, whose husband works for a jewelry dealer while she stays at home in the Bronx with their three preschool children, says her grocery bill is up by $50 a month since February. ''I am buying less meat,'' she said. She uses less laundry detergent in the washing machine and also cuts corners with fewer purchases of candy and snack chips, although the children constantly request them.
 Like Ms. Fouzailoff, Valerie Simpson, a 43-year-old mother who cares for elderly people and earns less than $25,000 a year, often shops at Pathmark at 125th Street and Lexington Avenue in Manhattan, although she, too, lives in the Bronx. While wealthier people shopping at Bloomingdale's note with alarm that designer jeans that sold for $135 last year are now $165, Ms. Simpson worries about putting milk on the table for her 15-year-old son, ''who drinks it like water.''
 A gallon jug of milk purchased at Pathmark on Thursday for $3.89 cost $3.49 a week or two ago, she said, and her son goes through two to three gallons a week. He also likes butter on his bread -- eight ounces were $2.50 this week versus $1.25 a couple of months ago -- and he is a big eater of eggs, at $2.19 a dozen versus $1.59 a couple of months ago, Ms. Simpson said.
 ''These are not luxury items; these are things that we need,'' she said. ''Look, if prices are going to increase, wages need to keep pace.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Katie O'Malley, 18, shops for a prom dress with her mother, Amy, at Bloomingdale's in New York. They found that a gown for Katie's senior prom was $100 more than they paid last year in the same store for a comparable dress for her junior prom. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
Shoppers at a Circuit City store in Norwalk, Conn. Worry about inflation is showing up in interviews and in surveys of consumers. Some of the greatest anxiety is among low-income families concerned about the costs of basic items like milk. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Checking the price of gasoline at a station in Washington. Some drivers say they are comparison shopping before pulling up to the pump. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C14)Chart: ''A Pickup in Prices''Based on the Consumer Price Index, inflation for the three months that ended in March was 5.1 percent at a compounded annual rate, the third-highest rate for a quarter in more than 13 years.Graph tracks Consumer Price Index from 1990 to 2003.(Source by Economy.com)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FAMILY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (84%); FOOD PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); DRUG PRICES (73%); GAS STATIONS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



370 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: The Perils of Cutting Medicaid

 BODY:
Medicaid, a joint state-federal health insurance program for the poor, has blossomed into the largest and most expensive public health program in the nation. For the most part, this is a blessing. Medicaid provides badly needed health care to those who can least afford it as well as badly needed financial support for the health institutions that take care of them. It is fast expanding into the nation's imperfect substitute for universal health insurance. But the states are having serious trouble carrying their share of the costs.
 When a recession hits, as in recent years, state tax receipts plunge and the ranks of the poor expand, putting enormous strain on state budgets. Unlike Washington, most states are compelled by law to balance their budgets every year, and the soaring state costs for Medicaid have to compete with other programs, particularly education. States find that cutting Medicaid is especially painful as it means losing some federal matching funds, a loss of $1 to $3 for every state dollar saved. 
 The strain will only get worse in coming months. Although state revenues are slowly beginning to rise, a one-year federal injection of $10 billion for Medicaid relief expires at the end of June. A federal crackdown on shady accounting tactics used by some states to extract more matching funds from Washington, although wholly justified, will add to the stress. Even the recently passed bill for a Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will ultimately relieve Medicaid of some of its drug expenditures, will impose stiff start-up costs on the states.
 Medicaid started as mostly a welfare program for the poor, but during the boom years of the 1990's many states took advantage of rising revenues to cover the near-poor and working poor and add benefits. Congress encouraged the trend by starting a Children's Health Insurance Program, which has functioned much like Medicaid and extended coverage to more low-income children.
 Now that times are bad, various states have reduced payments to hospitals and nursing homes, eliminated optional services like eyeglasses and dental care, or found ways to discourage enrollment. Even so, state Medicaid rolls have continued to rise, reaching 42 million last year, because the needy population is expanding. 
 Cutting costs is one obvious answer, but Medicaid is already Scrooge-like in many respects. It keeps its payments to providers low and delivers care, according to one recent analysis, more cheaply than a private plan could. Medicaid also forces most of its beneficiaries into health maintenance organizations, whose cost-paring ways have been roundly rejected by wealthier citizens.
 The most obvious potential spot for additional savings is long-term care, which consumes some 40 percent of the nation's Medicaid budget. One overdue reform is to plug loopholes that allow many middle-class people to qualify for Medicaid's nursing home coverage by transferring assets to other family members. Medicaid exists to provide health coverage for people who couldn't otherwise afford it, not to protect the assets of wealthier people so they can be passed on to heirs.
 Some experts want to reform Medicaid by ''federalizing'' the program entirely to eliminate state-by-state disparities and strengthen its financing. That would presumably mean lifting the bar for the least generous states but lowering it in others. Privatization is another option, pushed by those who believe that beneficiaries would be more cost-conscious if they could choose their own private plans. The Bush administration has proposed transforming Medicaid into something that looks suspiciously like a block grant that is intended to cap federal expenditures in future years. That could ultimately force states to trim their programs drastically, leaving millions of needy people without coverage.
 A better idea would be to rejigger the matching formulas to increase the federal match in recessionary years so states were not forced to cut Medicaid just when it was most needed. Still, all such proposals skirt the real problem: the relentless rise of health care costs. Until that issue is addressed, any serious attempts to curb Medicaid costs will be futile or dangerous to the poor and near-poor who depend on it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (79%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (79%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (79%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (79%); POOR POPULATION (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (79%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); TRENDS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



371 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Climb as Rate Fears Ease, but Tech Shares Fall

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue chips ended higher yesterday after comments from a top Federal Reserve official eased fears of an early increase in interest rates, but technology stocks sagged after disappointing news from the bellwethers International Business Machines and Nokia. 
 J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., the president of the Federal Reserve Bank in Richmond, Va., said the central bank was ''some distance'' from tightening monetary policy to choke off a future inflation threat.
 Mr. Broaddus also said he wanted more confirmation that economic growth would be sustained. 
 His comments were the latest from the Fed, which has sought to ease worries that it will be eager to lift official interest rates from historically low levels, even after a batch of surprisingly strong economic readings this week. 
 ''We had some encouraging news from the Fed,'' said Ed Peters, chief investment officer of PanAgora Asset Management Inc. in Boston. ''People have overreacted to data we got in the last few weeks, assuming that just because we had one month of a jump in inflation, we're going to continue to see that.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 54.51 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,451.97, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 5.77 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,134.61. The Nasdaq composite index declined 6.43 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,995.74. 
 For the week, the Dow rose 0.10 percent. But the S.&P. 500 and Nasdaq each fell, for the second straight week. The S.&P. 500 declined 0.4 percent, while the Nasdaq fell 2.8 percent. 
 Traders attributed some of the market's moves to the expiration of options, an event that can add to volatility in the market. April individual equity options and some stock-index options stopped trading at yesterday's close. 
 ''Part of the gains have to do with options expiration,'' said John O'Donoghue, the co-head of listed trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. ''A lot of it is unwinding of option positions between now and the end of the day. It's very quiet otherwise.'' 
 Nokia warned that its second-quarter earnings would fall and sales could also drop. Nokia, based in Finland, also said margins at its mobile phones unit would be hit until its more competitive models went on sale. Shares of Nokia fell $1.44, or almost 9 percent, to $14.61. 
 Shares of I.B.M. fell a day after it reported that its services division had disappointing profits and shortfalls in new services contracts, a closely watched indicator of future business. Shares of I.B.M. fell $1.69, or 1.8 percent, to $92.28. 
 On the Nasdaq, Netflix shares sank one day after the company, which rents DVD's online, posted a wider quarterly net loss because of higher marketing costs. But the company raised its earnings forecast because of higher fees. Shares of Netflix plummeted $6.27, or 16.9 percent, to $30.75. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 16/32, to a price of 97 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.34 percent from 4.40 percent on Thursday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 18/32, to 102 31/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.17 percent from 5.21 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (69%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); NETFLIX INC (50%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (50%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



372 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart, a Nation Unto Itself

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif., April 13 

 BODY:
We already know that Wal-Mart is the biggest retailer. (If it were an independent nation, it would be China's eighth-largest trading partner.) We also know that it is maniacal about low prices. (Some economists say it has single-handedly cut inflation by 1 percent in recent years, saving consumers billions of dollars annually.) We know that its labor practices have come under attack. (It charges its workers so much for health insurance that about one-third of them do not have it.) 
 But the more than 250 sociologists, anthropologists, historians and other scholars who gathered at the University of California here on Monday for a conference on Wal-Mart came looking for more than the company's vital statistics. Like archaeologists who pick over artifacts to understand an ancient society, the scholars here were examining Wal-Mart for insights into the very nature of American capitalist culture. As Susan Strasser, a history professor at the University of Delaware, said, ''Wal-Mart has come to represent something that's even bigger than it is.'' 
 Indeed, with $256 billion in annual sales and 20 million shoppers visiting its stores each day, Wal-Mart has greater reach and influence than any retailer in history. ''In each historical epoch a prototypical enterprise seems to embody a new and innovative set of economic structures and social relationships,'' said Nelson Lichtenstein, a history professor at the University of California here and the organizer of the conference. ''These template businesses are emulated because they have put in place, indeed perfected for their era, the most efficient and profitable relationship between the technology of production, the organization of work and the new shape of the market.''
 In the 19th century, he said, the standard-setting company was the Pennsylvania Railroad; in the mid-20th century, it was General Motors; and in the late 20th century, it was Microsoft. Today's prototypical company, he declared in opening the conference, is Wal-Mart, which, he said, rezones American cities, sets wage standards and even conducts diplomacy with other nations.
 ''In short, the company's management legislates for the rest of us key components of American social and industrial policy,'' Mr. Lichtenstein said.
 Wal-Mart has created a very different model from General Motors, he added, noting that G.M. helped build the world's most affluent middle class by paying wages far above the average and by providing generous health and pension plans. Mr. Lichtenstein said G.M.'s wage pattern spurred other companies to raise compensation levels, while Wal-Mart's relatively low wages and benefits -- its workers average less than $18,000 a year -- were doing just the opposite.
 The company's pay scale and hard-nosed labor practices, said Simon Head, a fellow at the Century Foundation and author of ''The New Ruthless Economy: Work and Power in the Digital Age'' (Oxford University Press, 2003) mean that ''Wal-Mart is certainly a template of 21st-century capitalism, but a capitalism that increasingly resembles a capitalism of 100 years ago.'' He added, ''It combines the extremely dynamic use of technology with a very authoritarian and ruthless managerial culture.''
 Wal-Mart declined to send a representative to the conference. ''We were invited to attend, but we passed,'' said Sarah Clark, a company spokeswoman. ''The agenda looked pretty biased against Wal-Mart.''
 If Wal-Mart is helping revolutionize labor relations, it is also revolutionizing consumer patterns. Ms. Strasser said it was the leading exemplar of a shift toward mass merchandising, which in her view has transformed customers into consumers. Many Americans, she said plaintively, no longer deal daily with craftsmen and neighborhood shopkeepers who give them advice on goods. Advertising is the source of shoppers' information. 
 Wal-Mart has made a traditional sales force obsolete for another reason, said James Hoopes, a historian at Babson College, in Wellesley, Mass. When retailing began centuries ago, salesmen were needed to explain goods to customers. But Wal-Mart follows a different model. Using technology, the company collects detailed information on the billions of purchases its customers make each year. Based on that information, it orders products (at low prices), confident that customers will like the merchandise and the prices, thus eliminating some of the need for an informed sales force. 
 Everyone at the conference seemed to marvel at Wal-Mart's extraordinarily sophisticated use of technology. The temperature of every one of its more than 3,500 American stores is controlled from its headquarters in Bentonville, Ark. Logistics gurus keep track of hundreds of thousands of shipments at home and abroad. Computers also keep close tabs on workers' hours and productivity.
 ''One store manager told me, 'I could tell you last year, July 12, how much in sales the store did and how much was rung up by Sally Jo, the cashier, within a particular hour,' '' said Ellen Rosen, a professor of women's studies at Brandeis University, in Waltham, Mass.
 Wal-Mart's in-depth knowledge of what consumers want, coupled with its immense size, has given the company huge power over its suppliers, effectively changing the traditional relationship between manufacturer and retailer. It usually knows more than manufacturers do about what shoppers want this week and will want next year. With some suppliers complaining that the company has bullied them, Wal-Mart has caused factories from South Texas to Shanghai to increase efficiencies continually and to lower their costs and prices. 
 ''It's changed the balance of global manufacturing,'' said Gary G. Hamilton, a China expert and sociology professor at the University of Washington.
 And not just manufacturing. 
 ''What do low-cost goods mean in light of the pressing issues of the global environment, global human rights and the global labor force?'' Ms. Strasser asked. ''And how do we move beyond the single-minded self-interest of price?''
 Low prices come at a cost, she and other speakers insisted, arguing, for instance, that Wal-Mart encouraged overconsumption and overdevelopment, which place strains on natural resources and the environment.
 ''Everything is based on the consumer first,'' said Edna Bonacich, a sociology professor at the University of California, Riverside. ''Is this the way we want to live?'' 
 To Ms. Bonacich, a hopeful sign that at least some people would answer no came just days before the conference. On April 6 in Inglewood, Calif., a largely black and Hispanic suburb of Los Angeles, voters rejected a ballot initiative allowing Wal-Mart to build a store there, with many saying they were unhappy with its wage levels, fierce anti-unionism and efforts to circumvent land-use regulations. 
 Other conference participants pointed to a four-month labor dispute in which the grocery workers' union fought a push by Southern California supermarket chains to cut wages and benefits for many workers because they feared Wal-Mart's expansion plans in the state. 
 ''The fact that it is starting to produce a backlash in a lot of different areas has heightened the interest,'' Ms. Strasser said. 
 But Mr. Hoopes questioned whether price-minded American shoppers would ever rush to the barricades to battle Wal-Mart.
 ''Wal-Mart has been tremendously helpful to the American consumer,'' he said. ''It's lowered prices for lots and lots of people. People are voting with their feet and with their dollars by shopping at Wal-Mart.''
 He added, ''If anybody is proposing that they're going to solve what they see as the Wal-Mart problem by urging people not to think of themselves as consumers, they're barking up the wrong tree.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Wal-Mart Supercenter opening in Athens, Ohio, in 2002, and an Ashland, Va., protest against Wal-Mart in the 2001 documentary ''Store Wars.'' (Photo by Allen Moore/ITVS)
(Photo by Getty Images)
The General Motors Buick City plant in Flint, Mich., in 1993. G.M.'s above-average wages and benefits set corporate trends in mid-20th-century America
Wal-Mart's low ones are doing so now, scholars say. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B9)
 Twenty million shoppers visit Wal-Mart stores each day. This one is in Barrie, Ontario. (Photo by Wal-Mart Canada)(pg. B7)Drawing (Drawing by Andy Chen)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (69%); ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); ZONING (65%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (62%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Conventions and Conferences; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%) Santa Barbara (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



373 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: About That Tax You Just Paid . . .

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Charles Murray's message in ''You Are What You Tax'' (Op-Ed, April 14) seems to be: If you don't understand what a government service provision is, you shouldn't have to pay for it.
 But many of the government entities Mr. Murray brands as ''gobbledygook'' -- for example, offices of diversity, regulatory development and planning -- provide essential public goods.
 In a time rife with allegations of corporate malfeasance and government cronyism, these responsibilities are more important than ever.
 It is a basic economic principle that public goods, by definition, are never adequately priced by individuals. Nevertheless, Mr. Murray underestimates the value that the American people put on promoting diversity, bolstering regulatory oversight and thinking prospectively about public policy.

JON D. MICHAELS
Arlington, Va., April 14, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); MISCONDUCT (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



374 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: UNITED NATIONS

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Russia Objects to Measure Supporting Investigation of Oil-for-Food Program

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 16 

 BODY:
Secretary General Kofi Annan has chosen the former Federal Reserve chairman, Paul A. Volcker, to lead an independent panel investigating corruption in the United Nations oil-for-food program, but an objection by Russia may keep him from accepting the job.
 United Nations officials said Friday that Mr. Volcker, 76, had been selected for the panel along with Mark Pieth, 50, a Swiss law professor with expertise in investigating money laundering and economic crime, and Richard J. Goldstone, 65, a South African judge who was chief prosecutor for the international criminal tribunals for the former Yugoslavia.
 But the nominations stalled Friday when Russia said it would not agree to a Security Council resolution that Mr. Volcker said he needed to give him the authority to conduct the wide-ranging inquiry that Mr. Annan was seeking. 
 ''We understand the reputation of the Secretariat is in question, but we do not think it is possible to adopt a resolution on the basis of mass media reports,'' said Sergei Trepelkov, spokesman for the Russian mission.
 Those reports, published first by an Iraqi newspaper in January and in the international press since then, listed companies and individuals as recipients of illegal allocations of oil. Forty-six were Russian, among them Vladimir Titorenko, a former Russian ambassador to Baghdad, and Nikolai Ryzhkov, a member of Parliament. In a statement at the time, the Russian Foreign Ministry denied any wrongdoing by Russians.
 According to a report by the General Accounting Office in Washington last month, Saddam Hussein's government skimmed more than $10 billion from the United Nations-monitored $67 billion program from 1997 to 2002.
 Among those named in documents that have emerged in Iraq is Benon V. Sevan, a career United Nations official who headed up the oil-for-food program and allegedly accepted oil allotments himself. He has denied the charges in a written statement.
 The documents also showed that Kojo Annan, the secretary general's son, was a consultant for Cotecna, a Swiss company contracted by the program. United Nations officials say an investigation in January, 1999 by Joseph E. Connor, then the undersecretary general for management, showed that no one handling the contract was aware of the affiliation.
 The Security Council began the oil-for-food program in December 1996 to let Iraq sell oil to ease the impact of the sanctions imposed after the Persian Gulf war in 1991. The proceeds were to go for the purchase of food and other goods, but they ended up financing an open bazaar of payoffs, favoritism and kickbacks with systematic smuggling, illegal surcharges and inflated port fees.
 Mr. Annan first assigned the matter to an internal inquiry, but as the charges grew and his own leadership of the United Nations was called into question by critics of the world organization, he told the Security Council on March 19 that he was going to name a high-level, independent panel and would need their support and cooperation.
 ''There is a lot that is being dumped on the Secretariat, which is not fair,'' he said of his own office, arguing that a wider inquiry was necessary. It was the 15-member Council that ran the program, and many of the transactions involved nationals of the member states.
 In response to Mr. Volcker's request, a draft resolution by the United States circulated this week among the four other veto-bearing members of the Council -- Britain, China, France and Russia -- and Germany, which is this month's president of the Council. All but Russia agreed to the motion, and Germany then circulated a revised draft on Thursday. On Friday the Russians said they still objected.
 It was not known if a resolution was a condition for Mr. Volcker's taking the job. Telephone messages at his New York office requesting comment went unanswered. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); JUDGES (70%); DESERT STORM (66%); SMUGGLING (66%); ACCOUNTING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (70%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



375 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ernst Barred From Adding Audit Clients for 6 Months
Ernst & Young was barred from accepting any new audit clients in the United States for six months after a judge found that the firm acted improperly by auditing a company with which it had a highly profitable business relationship.
 The unusual order brought to an end a bitter fight in which the Securities and Exchange Commission had contended that Ernst violated rules on auditor independence by jointly marketing consulting and tax services with PeopleSoft, an audit client. [Page A1.]

Head of German Central Bank Quits
Ernst Welteke, left, resigned as head of the Bundesbank, succumbing to a scandal involving a $9,335 bill at a hotel in Berlin two years ago and a night on a corporate yacht. The resignation has highlighted the uneasy relationship between Germany's government and its central bank, which, having ceded control of monetary policy to the European Central Bank five years ago, still has a supervisory role in Germany's commercial banking system. [C3.]

Report Details Fraud at Parmalat
Parmalat, the insolvent Italian food company, falsified its earnings reports for at least 13 years, losing almost 2 billion euros in that period and realizing only one profitable year, according to a report prepared by an independent auditor for prosecutors in Milan. [C3.]

Changes to a Nanotechnology Index
Merrill Lynch dropped six companies and added three others to its new nanotechnology stock index, and said that the index would be updated quarterly, not semiannually, to keep up with the pace of change in the field. [C2.]

Russian Court Bars Asset Sale
A Moscow arbitration court granted a request by Russian tax authorities barring Yukos, the country's largest crude oil producer, from selling any assets, including stock. [C3.]

U.S. Moves to End Wage Scheme
The Justice Department moved to close what it said was a health-benefits fraud that allowed employers to disguise wages as nontaxable reimbursement for medical costs or by deducting insurance premiums improperly. [C4.]

Dow and S.&P. Gain; Nasdaq Falls
Blue-chip stocks rose after comments from a top Federal Reserve official eased fears of an early interest-rate increase, but technology stocks sagged. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 5.77 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,134.61, but declined 0.4 percent for the week. The S.&P. is up 2 percent so far this year. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 54.51 points, to 10,451.97, but the Nasdaq composite index declined 6.43 points, to 1,995.74. [C4.]

Housing construction rebounded in March, rising by 6.4 percent, but production at factories, mines and utilities dipped 0.2 percent in March and the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for early April declined to 93.2 from 95.8 in March. [C4.]

2 Ex-Qwest Executives Acquitted
A federal jury acquitted two former Qwest executives of accounting fraud charges and deadlocked on charges on two others, dealing the government a serious setback in a case it had seen as the start of a sweeping investigation of the company. [C2.]

Shell Officials Discuss Oil Review
Executives of Royal Dutch/Shell discussed a review into cuts in its estimates of oil and gas reserves, but no details were announced. Shell lowered its estimates of proven reserves by 20 percent in January. [C14.]

Lubrizol to Acquire Noveon
Lubrizol, a specialty chemical maker, is buying Noveon International, a private chemical company, for $920 million in cash. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,451.97 up 54.51Nasdaq composite -- 1,995.74 down 6.4310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.34% down 0.06The euro -- $1.1990 up 0.0008The dollar -- 107.72 yen down 0.64Graph tracks the weekly closing of Standard and Poor's 500 since January 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); TAX CONSULTING (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); JUDGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); EURO (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); ACQUITTAL (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (70%); SCANDALS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); PARMALAT SPA (55%); OAO NK YUKOS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (55%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (55%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



376 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; THE SATURDAY PROFILE

LENGTH: 2165 words

PERSON: Hamid Karzai

HEADLINE: In Afghanistan, U.S. Envoy Sits In Seat of Power

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
''So what are we doing today?'' Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, asked the United States ambassador, Zalmay M. Khalilzad, as they sat in Mr. Karzai's office. 
 Mr. Khalilzad patiently explained that they would attend a ceremony to kick off the ''greening'' of Kabul -- the planting and seeding of 850,000 trees -- in honor of the Afghan New Year.
 Mr. Karzai said he would speak off-the-cuff. Mr. Khalilzad, sounding more mentor than diplomat, approved: ''It's good you don't have a text,'' he told Mr. Karzai. ''You tend to do better.'' 
 The genial Mr. Karzai may be Afghanistan's president, but the affable, ambitious Mr. Khalilzad often seems more like its chief executive. With his command of both details and American largesse, the Afghan-born envoy has created an alternate seat of power since his arrival on Thanksgiving. 
 As he shuttles between the American Embassy and the presidential palace, where Americans guard Mr. Karzai, one place seems an extension of the other. 
 Working closely with the Karzai government and the American military, Mr. Khalilzad ponders whether to push for the removal of uncooperative governors, where roads should be built to undercut insurgency, and how to ensure that the elements friendly to America gain ascendancy in a democratic Afghanistan. His overarching goal is to accelerate the country's rebuilding and securing, preferably on a timetable attuned to the American political cycle. 
 As a State Department and Pentagon official and at the Rand Corporation, he advocated pre-emptive action against so-called rogue states like Iraq. Now he is formulating -- on the ground, and on the fly -- that doctrine's previously neglected bookend: how to fill the void those governments leave behind. And as the United States struggles to get it right, policy makers in Washington are closely watching Mr. Khalilzad, an academic and policy planner.
 ''In many ways we're experimenting,'' Mr. Khalilzad admitted. 
 Until it regains sovereignty this summer, Iraq has an almost wholly American administration. Mr. Khalilzad must work with a government with its own head of state that somewhat unsteadily unifies disparate political and military factions. 
 Where L. Paul Bremer III has an occupation authority staffed by hundreds of Americans, Mr. Khalilzad is working with only a handful of advisers, one-tenth the number of American troops in Iraq, and this year, about one-tenth the financing. 
 The question is how much Mr. Khalilzad can do with so much less.
 Provincial Reconstruction Teams of fewer than 100 soldiers are being deployed to provide a security presence and support reconstruction. Mr. Khalilzad has brought in a coterie of senior advisers, including a former ''change agent'' for companies like American Airlines, to provide ideas and jump-start the private sector. 
 ''This all has to work,'' said the acting Army secretary, Les Brownlee, during a meeting with Mr. Khalilzad. ''If it doesn't, we're never going to get out of here.'' 
 Mr. Khalilzad has less outright power than Mr. Bremer, but possibly as much influence. That is partly because America's 15,500 troops -- up from 11,000 a few months ago -- and $4.2 billion in spending since 2001 loom so large in Afghanistan, among the world's poorest, most fragile countries. 
 It is also because he has the ear of Mr. Karzai, whom he often sees two or three times a day, the ambassador's distinct laugh echoing from the president's inner sanctum. The two have known each other for 20 years, since Mr. Khalilzad became involved with supporting the anti-Soviet mujahedeen. Then an official in the Reagan administration, he helped funnel support and Stinger missiles to Islamic fundamentalists, some of whom, like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, later became America's fiercest opponents. 
 Mr. Hekmatyar ''is your old friend,'' a former Hekmatyar commander named Sabawun, who now is advising Mr. Karzai, told Mr. Khalilzad during a brief palace encounter. Old friends become enemies, they agreed, and left it at that.
 Mr. Khalilzad himself knows how compasses change. In the mid-1990's, he briefly defended the Taliban while working as a consultant for Unocal, the oil company that was then trying to build a pipeline through Afghanistan. He later became one of the Taliban's fiercest critics. 
 Born in Mazar-i-Sharif 53 years ago, Mr. Khalilzad, Pashtun by ethnicity, speaks Dari and Pashto. He understands and remains comfortable with the intrigues and intimacies, the informality, the talk and the tribal ties that are so much of political business here. 
 ''You are working for two countries, the United States and Afghanistan,'' one tribal leader from Helmand Province told him. 
 More seasoned Afghan officials say they are clear that Zal, as Mr. Khalilzad is known, answers to the Bush administration. It dispatched him here to ensure that Afghanistan has visible progress and a successful election in advance of the American one, and to judge whether a greater infusion of money and attention now can reduce the bill to American taxpayers later. 
 His plan is to speed the building of the army and police, and to develop the private sector largely by luring expatriates back to invest. He has used his influence to help secure land for projects like a new Hyatt hotel for Kabul, and is pushing the development of an international school and top-tier hospital to serve returning elites, although critics note that many Afghans lack the most basic health care and education. 
 He preaches a narrative of American self-sufficiency, exhorting Afghans to do more for themselves and depend less on foreign donors and their government. 
 ''Tell the story of America, especially its early days,'' he encouraged Americans gathered at a town hall meeting in the capital of the country that was once his. 
 Mr. Khalilzad celebrated the Afghan New Year in March with 12 hours of meetings. The first was with bearded, turbaned tribal leaders from Helmand Province, whom he met at the presidential palace, a location that signaled their prestige, and his access. 
 His goal was to secure better cooperation with coalition forces, while acting as a buffer against resentment of those forces. Helmand was a strong support base for the Taliban, and the American military has been unhappy with the attitude of its governor, Sher Muhammad Akhundzada. 
 ''We are curious why so far the governor has no committee or no contact with American troops,'' the ambassador told the leaders, and asked what would happen if the governor were moved from the province. He jokingly warned them against playing ''tribal games'' with him, alerting them he knew they come from the governor's tribe. 
 The tribal leaders stoutly defended the governor, and in turn complained about the conduct of coalition troops and their Afghan allies. The way house searches are being conducted ''will compel people to revolt,'' one elder warned. 
 Mr. Khalilzad later said that he worried that American military tactics could drive Afghans toward the Taliban, but he replied that the governor should create understanding between the tribes and the troops. ''I think he will stay in the province as long as these problems are solved,'' Mr. Khalilzad said, putting diplomatic finesse on what amounted to an ultimatum. 
 He pointedly reminded the leaders that he is a Muslim. Together, they prayed for the success of Afghanistan. 
 The trees were planted. He and Mr. Karzai then met with United Nations officials about elections, a process that Mr. Khalilzad is ferociously prodding. He is frustrated with the United Nations, which so far has registered 1.5 million out of an estimated 10 million potential voters for elections that have been pushed back to September from June. He said of United Nations operatives, ''Frankly they have been relatively slow,'' a criticism the United Nations disputes. 
 Under his auspices, the United States is allocating $60 million over two years to speed police training, with the goal of having 20,000 officers to secure elections by the end of June. The training effort has been German-led, but here, as elsewhere, the impatient Mr. Khalilzad is tempering multilateralism with a more active American role. 
 Mr. Khalilzad is also trying to shore up support for Mr. Karzai's government by providing visible signs of reconstruction, an effort that could provoke resentment from other factions as the elections approach. Recent weeks have brought choreographed announcements about hundreds of schools and clinics to be built or rehabilitated in the next few months -- more than has been done in the last two years. Critics say such haste, along with the government's lack of money and trained personnel, risks littering Afghanistan with unstaffed buildings. 
 But Mr. Khalilzad is pressing ahead. At an afternoon briefing, he showed Mr. Karzai where the schools would be built. ''I have already discussed with a couple of provinces to trade two or three elementary schools for a larger high school,'' Mr. Khalilzad said, not bothering to hide his ability to barter with American money. 
 The United States has hired a Washington-based communications company, the Rendon Group, to bolster Mr. Karzai's communications office. And in a brief huddle at the palace, Mr. Khalilzad and the head of intelligence, Amrullah Saleh, discussed how the Afghan people regarded the government -- and, as Mr. Khalilzad put it, ''things we could do to help the standing of the government without working through the government.'' 
 He has also pushed hard to accelerate the disarmament of the country's militias, which many see as the essential condition for minimally free and fair voting. He has shepherded a new plan that would demobilize 40 percent of Afghan militias -- the same forces that arose to fight the Soviets, then lived on to fight the Taliban and one another. 
 Radical in its ambition, the plan would amount to sending home as many as 35,000 soldiers in the next three months, though less than 6,000 have been demobilized since the United Nations started the process in October. 
 Mr. Khalilzad has been personally negotiating with the defense minister, Muhammad Qasim Fahim, over how best to do it. The United States allied with Mr. Fahim, then the Northern Alliance commander, after Sept. 11, but even today American officials remain uncertain whose side he is on. 
 ''I'm still shadow-boxing with Minister Fahim,'' Mr. Khalilzad said at one point. 
 In a meeting at the embassy, Mr. Khalilzad asked Mr. Brownlee, the acting Army secretary, his impression of Mr. Fahim. 
 ''Tough guy,'' Mr. Brownlee said. ''I have no idea the extent to which he can be trusted.'' 
 ''I think that's still the question,'' said David Sedney, the deputy chief of mission. 
 ''He always says the right thing -- or at least recently,'' Mr. Khalilzad said, explaining that Mr. Fahim wanted to be Mr. Karzai's vice presidential candidate. 
 Mr. Khalilzad wants to speed the training of the Afghan National Army, which after some $500 million in American investment has fewer than 8,000 soldiers. In the evening, he led a meeting on the subject with military planners. They discussed how big an army the country needed, the likely threats Afghanistan would face, the money Washington might provide in coming years.
 ''What models are we talking about for a future relationship with Afghanistan?'' Mr. Khalilzad asked. ''This has to be linked to that.'' 
 The discussion turned to how long to embed American trainers with Afghan battalions. The question arose: Were the military men considering how long it would take to create an ethnically harmonious army, or just what it takes to learn specific military skills? The latter, the military men said. 
 Such tensions -- between military and civilian perspectives, short and long-term interests -- perpetually bedevil this enterprise. Mr. Khalilzad, for example, worries that the Americans are cultivating dependence by coming 10,000 miles to build concrete schools for Afghans who once built stunning palaces and mosques. But he concedes that he is pushing the school-building, because the Americans and Mr. Karzai need the good will now. 
 Mr. Khalilzad has changed his view that the Afghans, having resisted the British and Soviets so fiercely, would permit only a light foreign footprint. Now he believes that they crave foreign help -- but that he must carefully calibrate how heavy a footprint they will stand. 
 If the United States maintains enough aid, he said, Afghanistan can be a close friend, an Islamic democracy, a more prosperous place. ''This experiment we were forced into getting involved in can be a success,'' he said. ''It requires sustaining the course.'' He knows better than most how hard that is for a superpower perpetually distracted by new crises. In the early 1990's, Mr. Khalilzad was part of a Bush administration that looked away as Afghanistan devoured itself in a civil war. Today he tells Afghans that the American abandonment was a mistake, and vows that this time will be different. 


CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page picture caption on Saturday about the renovation of a school in Afghanistan misstated the date of the renovation work shown in the picture. It was in April 2003, not last week. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers in Afghanistan renovated a school this week. Zalmay M. Khalilzad, the United States ambassador, is behind an effort to rebuild hundreds of schools and clinics and to shore up support for the government. (Photo by France Keyser/In Visu, Corbis)(pg. A1)
Afghan Army soldiers in Kabul last month. Mr. Khalilzad wants to speed training of the army, which still has fewer than 8,000 soldiers. (Photo by Reuters)
 Zalmay M. Khalilzad, left, the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, in Kabul. (Photo by Hiromi Yasui)(pg. A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); IRAQ WAR (66%); THANKSGIVING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

HAMAD KARZAI (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); IRAQ (93%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



377 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Slow to Adapt, Nokia Loses Market Share In Latest Cellphones

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, April 16 

 BODY:
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone maker, paid a heavy price on Friday for missing the trend toward stylish clamshell phone handsets, denting its vaunted reputation as the arbiter of cellphone chic.
 Biting into Nokia's market share, the company's hottest rival, Samsung Electronics, reported soaring profits, while Nokia forecast a further slump. Nokia shares touched a 13-month low as investors began looking toward other cellphone makers regarded as likely to tap into a market of fleeting fashions and fickle loyalties.
 ''No brand can stay cool forever,'' said Peter Firstbrook, an analyst with the META Group, a technology research consultant firm in Stamford, Conn. ''Nokia has been slow to adapt.'' 
 The contrast between Nokia, based in Finland, and Samsung, based in South Korea, could hardly have been more stark as they made their announcements a few hours apart.
 Samsung recorded $2.7 billion in profit in the first quarter, an increase of 178 percent from the period a year ago and its best quarter ever; sales were up 50 percent. Nokia said that the 2 percent drop in its first-quarter profits, announced last week, could be followed by second-quarter sales that are likely to be ''slightly below'' the $8.4 billion it recorded in the period last year.
 Samsung executives seemed surprised by the surge in their company's fortunes, and forecast better things to come in the second quarter. Nokia said it was ''not satisfied with our sales development during the first quarter.''
 Nokia still has the leading share of the world handset market, manufacturing 35 percent of the 128 million mobile phones sold in the first quarter. But Nokia lost three percentage points of share from the last quarter of 2003, while Samsung, which ranks third by sales volume after Nokia and Motorola, gained ground. 
 Samsung said on Friday that it expected its market share to rise by almost four percentage points, to 14 percent. Nokia said its goal was still to secure 40 percent of world mobile phone sales.
 Most striking, however, is that recent declines in Nokia's share price mean that Samsung's market capitalization has now overtaken Nokia's as the largest for any technology company outside the United States. The shift in part reflects Samsung's much broader product line, which includes memory chips and flat-screen displays as well as high-end mobile phones, at a time when all those products are fetching high prices.
 Shares of Nokia, which at one point in the day were off nearly 10 percent, closed at 12.40 euros, down 8.2 percent. Samsung's share price also fell on Friday, along with most Korean companies, but after the day's trading, Samsung's market capitalization was equivalent to $76.4 billion, compared with $69.4 billion for Nokia.
 ''Nokia has obviously made some major mistakes,'' said Urban Ekelund, an analyst with Redeye, a private research company in Stockholm. ''Firstly, they haven't launched clamshell products, which came to Asia one and a half years ago. And second, they haven't launched products with good color screens and cameras.''
 By contrast, Samsung has been ''focusing on high-end products,'' Mr. Ekelund said in a telephone interview, while ''Nokia has been focusing too much on the low end,'' and on emerging economies rather than richer markets like the United States.
 In a television interview, Jorma Ollila, Nokia's chief executive, said, ''There were some changes in the products of our competitors, and we were not as swift in moving.''
 In a conference call with analysts, Mr. Ollila said that Nokia planned to introduce 31 new models this year, including about 6 of the flip-top type that Samsung and Motorola were quicker to unveil. But that may not reverse its fortunes.
 ''As you get bigger, you become the target, and it becomes harder to move quickly,'' said Mr. Firstbrook of the META Group. ''Nokia became bigger not necessarily because they were best, but because everyone else was stumbling. Now there is more competition, and the competition is getting better. Nokia is a bit of a dinosaur in terms of changing direction. I don't think there's any one thing they can do to turn around.''
 Even as Nokia shares fell on Friday, those of European rivals like Ericsson and Siemens gained, as investors shifted away from what had once been seen as a rock-solid bellwether stock. 
 The woes came after earlier signs of trouble. On April 6, Nokia warned investors that first-quarter sales had fallen about 2 percent, a performance far short of the company's forecast of a gain of 7 percent. On Friday it said that its second-quarter earnings would probably be 0.13 euro to 0.15 euro a share, well below the 0.19 euro figure of the period a year ago, which included the costs of job cuts.
 The company also said on Friday that while sales of mobile phones in general rose at a 29 percent annual rate in the first quarter, Nokia's shipments increased by only 19 percent. Operating profit at its mobile phone division fell to 1.09 billion euros.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An advertisement for Samsung Electronics cellphones in Seoul, South Korea. Samsung has reported a profit, while its rival in Europe, Nokia, has forecast that its slump will continue. (Photo by Reuters)
 Jorma Ollila, Nokia's chief executive, said the company planned to introduce new cellphone models. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TRENDS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); MEMORY CHIPS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SALES & SELLING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (94%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (90%); SAMSUNG GROUP (86%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (94%); NOK1V (BIT) (94%); NOK (NYSE) (94%); SMSN (LSE) (90%); 005930 (KSE) (90%); MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (86%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); FINLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



378 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Opposes Plan to Build A Tunnel in Lower Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The loudest shot to date against the idea of building a short tunnel through Lower Manhattan was fired yesterday by Senator Charles E. Schumer, who said that he opposed the plan if it would divert money from other transportation projects.
 Mr. Schumer took issue with a plan to turn several blocks of West Street-Route 9A into a covered roadway between the World Trade Center site and Battery Park City. That plan is backed by Gov. George E. Pataki, but nearby residents have opposed it because of the potential disruptions. It is undergoing environmental review, with two others. 
 The Democratic senator questioned the favored plan of the Republican governor on economic grounds, saying in a speech to the Regional Plan Association that it might divert $900 million from regionally oriented projects like a rail link between downtown and Kennedy Airport.
 ''If we use that $900 million to sink West Street,'' Mr. Schumer told listeners at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, ''it's very unlikely we'll also have enough money to build a full transportation link. It's a choice. If someone can tell me it's not a choice, let's do both.''
 He added, ''But I have to believe that we can create an appropriate setting for a 9/11 memorial and re-knit Battery Park City and the World Financial Center for less than $225 million per block.''
 Mr. Schumer identified the westward extension of the No. 7 subway line as the project most in need of championing, and said he would reserve judgment on the New York Sports and Convention Center proposed for the Jets on the West Side.
 The senator startled some in the audience by saying that state officials had earmarked the remainder of a federal Community Development Block Grant for the downtown-Kennedy rail link. State officials maintain that no final decisions have been reached on how to spend the money, though the rail link would almost certainly get some of it.
 ''We have $1.2 billion in unspent C.D.B.G. funds available to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, and they've set that aside for the J.F.K. link,'' Mr. Schumer said.
 In response, the governor's office and the corporation said that Mr. Pataki and his fellow Republican, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, had put a process in place to study four possible routes linking downtown to Kennedy Airport and points east along the Long Island Rail Road. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); MAYORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



379 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Slays Another Dragon, Winning Overhaul of Workers' Compensation

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 16 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, perhaps the only politician who ever made reform of workers' compensation an applause line, won yet another victory on Friday when the California Legislature, as expected, overwhelmingly passed sweeping changes to the enormously expensive system.
 Despite enthusiasm from labor and business circles that was only muted, the final product was a significant political achievement, just the latest in what has become a growing list for Mr. Schwarzenegger. In the six months since ousting Gov. Gray Davis from office in a historic recall election, he has broken gridlock in Sacramento and delivered on a string of campaign promises, from rescinding drivers' licenses for illegal immigrants to reversing $4 billion in car tax increases to winning public approval of a state bond issue addressing the state's vast fiscal problems. 
 ''Of course the first thing I heard when I came to Sacramento in November is that it can't be done, that it is impossible,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said at the Capitol after both houses of the Legislature approved the workers'-compensation bill on Friday. ''I'm trying to teach them slowly here that we should just get rid of these words 'we can't' or 'I can't.' Everything is possible.''
 The workers' compensation system in California is by far the costliest in the nation, with claims that ballooned to an estimated $30 billion last year from $6.5 billion in 1997. Yet its beneficiaries -- employees who are injured on the job and so are entitled to coverage of medical expenses and to compensation for lost wages -- receive some of the nation's lowest benefits. Business leaders, who finance the system, have complained that much of the money is going to lawyers and doctors who, the businesses say, perform unnecessary and duplicative procedures.
 During the recall race last year, Mr. Schwarzenegger made an overhaul of that system a centerpiece of his campaign, saying waste, inefficiency and the resulting rise in costs were driving jobs to other states. Crowds roared when, on the stump, he promised reform.
 The newly passed measure, approved by 77 to 3 in the Assembly and 33 to 3 in the Senate, resulted from negotiations between the Republican governor and leaders of the Democratic-controlled Legislature.
 Among its provisions is a requirement that injured workers choose from an H.M.O.-style pool of doctors. Another provision redefines what it means to be permanently disabled by on-the-job injuries, and places a two-year cap on temporary disability payments. Moreover, medical treatments will now follow national guidelines established by the American Medical Association.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, who is to sign the bill into law on Monday, had threatened to put the issue to a public referendum if the Legislature did not pass the measure by Friday. The Democratic majority, still unnerved by the recall of Mr. Davis, seemed in no mood to challenge the governor, and got the bill passed with five hours to spare.
 Contrary to what some Democrats sought, the legislation, though applying the brakes to the cost of claims paid by insurance companies, does nothing to regulate premiums that they are paid by employers; the governor would not go along with such a provision.
 The absence of that regulation left business and labor alike voicing some concern. Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for the California Labor Federation, said that although there were things to like in the legislation, ''the problem with this deal is the profits go to the big insurance companies, not the employers or workers.''
 Allan Zaremberg, president of the California Chamber of Commerce, said that he was satisfied with the deal over all but that he wondered whether the insurers would be passing on its ''substantial savings'' to businesses. He said the chamber was insisting on a study in a year's time to assess the legislation's effects.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, who as a candidate promised that he would not be swayed by special-interest money, has accepted more than $500,000 in donations from workers' compensation insurers and has drawn criticism for doing so.
 ''He's a hypocrite,'' said Douglas Heller of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights, a nonpartisan watchdog based in Santa Monica. ''He's proving that he's not the hero who is going to fix politics, but rather that he's just another politician.''
 Insurance executives, however, said the absence of rate regulation made good economic sense for a system so unpredictable that most private insurers avoid the California market. ''Rate regulations would never work, and Governor Schwarzenegger understands that,'' said Nicole Mahrt of the American Insurance Association. ''It would not save one dime, would do nothing to fix the system and discourage private companies from coming in and creating a competitive market rate.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: Highest Workers' Compensation RatesAverage 2002 cost for employers for workers' compensation insurance, as a percentage of the national median.1. California: 220%2. Florida: 1903. Hawaii: 1474. Delaware: 1435. Rhode Island: 1396. Texas: 1397. Louisiana: 1348. New York: 1329. Montana: 12810. Nevada: 128(Source by Information Management Division, Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKERS COMPENSATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION DISABILITY (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REFERENDUMS (70%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (69%); BONDS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); LAWYERS (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (55%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



380 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: DIPLOMACY

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Blair, United in Unwavering Stance on Iraq Policy, Part on Mideast Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
President Bush met Friday with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and emerged to say that the United States and its allies would not waver from their commitment to help the Iraqi people achieve peace and democracy.
 ''Britain and America and our allies can either break our word to the people of Iraq, abandon them in their hour of need and consign them to oppression, or we can help them defeat the enemies of a free Iraq and build the institutions of liberty,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The prime minister and I have made our choice: Iraq will be free. Iraq will be independent. Iraq will be a peaceful nation.'' 
 Mr. Bush welcomed the plan being developed by a United Nations envoy for the establishment of a caretaker government as part of the American schedule to restore sovereignty to Iraq on June 30, a deadline he and Mr. Blair said they would not budge from no matter the difficulties ahead.
 ''It was never going to be easy and it isn't now,'' Mr. Blair said.
 In their joint appearance before reporters in the White House Rose Garden, the two leaders sought to emphasize that they would not back down from a conflict in Iraq that the Bush administration had suggested would be far simpler, at least after the fall of Baghdad, than it turned out to be. 
 In emphasizing their duty to stand by the Iraqi people, Mr. Bush and Mr. Blair continued their shift away from their original rationale for the war, their accusation that Saddam Hussein had an arsenal of chemical and biological weapons and was making progress on his nuclear program. No banned weapons have been found in Iraq.
 Asked directly whether he and Mr. Bush had misled their nations in taking them to war, Mr. Blair replied that most of the world considered Mr. Hussein a threat, that he was an instigator of wars that caused millions of casualties and that the Iraqi people were waiting to see whether the allies would follow through on their promises to help create a peaceful democracy in their country.
 The people of Iraq are ''going to be sitting there, asking after all the decades of tyranny we've had, after all the promises that the international community gave us and frankly let us down on, are these people going to stay the course?'' Mr. Blair said. ''And we are, and we want the international community to work with us in doing that.''
 But even as he put up a united front on Iraq, Mr. Blair distanced himself a bit from Mr. Bush's new stand on the Arab-Israeli conflict, which has been poorly received in European capitals. Foreign ministers of the European Union, meeting in Ireland Friday, tried to react calmly to the American move. Without directly challenging Mr. Bush's decision this week to support Israel's plan to withdraw from the Gaza Strip and portions of the West Bank, Mr. Blair signaled that he now wanted the emphasis to shift to helping the Palestinians achieve the promise of an independent, viable state.
 Mr. Blair, who for several years has made clear behind the scenes that he thinks the Bush administration does not appear even-handed to Arab nations, said he would call for a meeting of the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United States to consider granting new aid to the Palestinians. The Palestinians need the help, he said, to meet the challenge of providing security and economic stability and establishing the ability to govern themselves effectively as Israel withdraws.
 ''If there is disengagement by Israel from the Gaza and from parts of the West Bank,'' Mr. Blair said, ''that gives us the opportunity to help the Palestinian Authority with the economic, the political and the security measures they take and they need to take in order to get to the point where the concept of a viable Palestinian state becomes a real possibility.''
 The White House signaled, though, that it would look skeptically at any additional aid that would flow through the hands of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, who remains in effective control of the Palestinian Authority in the absence of a strong prime minister.
 Mr. Bush has refused to deal with Mr. Arafat. On Friday, he said pointedly that the establishment of a Palestinian state would ''require a commitment by the Palestinian people to find leadership that is committed to peace and hope.''
 Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, called Mr. Arafat ''part of the problem'' and said he had ''undermined efforts every step of the way.'' Another administration official said the United States would encourage the European Union and Arab nations, among others, to increase their contributions if the money was funneled through the United Nations to the Palestinian finance ministry, where it could be kept out of Mr. Arafat's hands. 
 They said the United States already provided more aid to the Palestinians through the United Nations than any other nation, and was unlikely to increase its contributions at this point.
 Mr. Blair said settling the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was part of a broader effort to root out the causes of terrorism in Arab and Muslim nations and trying to stabilize Iraq.
 The president left it to Mr. Blair to set out in more detail how they intend to make progress in Iraq.
 Mr. Blair outlined a series of actions, including a stepped up effort for recruiting and training Iraqi police and security personnel, a commitment to making good on plans for reconstruction and a critical role for the United Nations.
 The emphasis on the role of the United Nations was one point that Mr. Blair had pressed Mr. Bush on for more than a year, with little success. But American credibility in Iraq has been ebbing and few other options seem to be available as the June 30 deadline approaches. As such, Mr. Bush continued to signal a willingness to give up direct control by the United States over the establishment of a caretaker Iraqi government that would embody the country's sovereignty until elections for a permanent government are held.
 Asked about the specific shape of the caretaker government being developed by the United Nations envoy to Iraq, Lakhdar Brahimi, in consultation with Iraqis and the United States, Mr. Bush replied, ''That's going to be decided by Mr. Brahimi.''
 Britain and the United States are expected to begin circulating a draft of a new United Nations resolution next month. Diplomats at the United Nations said it was expected to authorize a multinational military force in Iraq. It will also outline the role of the world body after the transfer of sovereignty to Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain at the White House yesterday. At a news conference, the two said they would not budge from their June 30 deadline to restore sovereignty to Iraq. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



381 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Blair: Two Allies Who Share a Vision for Iraq

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from statements on Friday by President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain in the White House Rose Garden, as recorded by The New York Times. The full text is at nytimes.com/international.

PRESIDENT BUSH -- . . . What we're seeing in Iraq is an attempted power grab by extremists and terrorists. They will fail. The extremists will fail because our coalition will not allow Iraq's future to be stolen by a violent few. They will also fail because they are not widely supported by the Iraqi people, who have no desire to trade one tyrant for another. . . .
 One of the essential commitments we've made to the Iraqi people is this: they will control their own country. No citizen of America or Britain would want the government of their nation in the hands of others. And neither do the Iraqis. 
 And this is why the June 30 date for the transfer of sovereignty will be kept. This transfer will demonstrate to the Iraqi people that our coalition has no interest in occupation. On that date the coalition provisional authority will cease to exist. But coalition forces will remain in Iraq to help the new government succeed. 
 This week we've seen the outlines of a new Iraqi government that will take the keys of sovereignty. We welcome the proposals presented by the U.N. special envoy, [Lakhdar] Brahimi. He's identified a way forward to establishing an interim government that is broadly acceptable to the Iraqi people. 
 Our coalition partners will continue to work with the U.N. to prepare for nationwide elections that will choose a new government in January of 2005. We thank the U.N. and Secretary General [Kofi] Annan for helping Iraqis secure a future of freedom. We're grateful that Mr. Brahimi will soon return to Iraq to continue his important work. . . . 
 On Wednesday the prime minister of Israel presented his plan to withdraw from Gaza and some parts of the the West Bank. I support that plan. It's a good opportunity. It gives the Palestinians a chance to create a reformed, just and free government. Palestinian leadership must rise to the challenge. It gives all sides a chance to reinvigorate progress on the road map. I'm committed to the vision of two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. 
 As I said Wednesday, all final status issues must still be negotiated between the parties. I look forward to the day when those discussions can begin so the Israeli occupation can be ended and a free and independent and peaceful Palestinian state can emerge.

PRIME MINISTER BLAIR -- . . . Our strategy [in Iraq], political and military is as follows. First, we stand firm. We will do what it takes to win this struggle. We will not yield. We will not back down in the face of attacks either on us or on defenseless civilians.
 Second, we hold absolutely to the 30th of June timetable for the handover of sovereignty to the Iraqis themselves. 
 Third, we will redouble our efforts to build the necessary capability of the Iraqis themselves to take increased responsibility for security and law and order. The measures for recruiting, training and equipping Iraqi police and civil defense corps will be intensified. 
 Fourth, we will carry forward the plan for reconstruction and investment in Iraq so that all parts of Iraq, Sunni, Shia and Kurdish, know that they have a place and a future in the new Iraq that is being created. 
 Fifth, the U.N. will have a central role, as now, in developing the program and machinery for political transition to full Iraqi democracy. And we will seek a new U.N. Security Council resolution to embody the political and security way forward.
 It follows from this that the political and military strategies will reinforce each other as they do now. The purpose of the military action is to create the security environment in which the political aims can be achieved . . . . 
 To tackle the poverty, conflict, religious and ethnic strife which mars so much of the world, in this regard we reaffirm again the importance of a solution for the Middle East peace process. We welcome the Israeli proposal to disengage from the Gaza and parts of the West Bank. 
 We want the quartet to meet as soon as possible to discuss how it can support the Palestinian Authority in particular, economically, politically and in respect of security, to respond to that offer. . . . 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); TERRORISM (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



382 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Below the Campaign Radar, a Values War

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
On the campaign trail, President Bush rarely mentions his support for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. John Kerry is talking far more about his economic plan than about abortion rights.
 But advocacy groups on the left and the right are mobilizing furiously around those hot-button social issues. They are convinced that the country is at a turning point on them, and that the consensus of the next election -- no matter how narrow -- could be locked in for a generation, because of the number of judges the next president will appoint.
 ''What happens over the next seven months will determine what the law of the land is for the next 20 years,'' said Ralph Neas, the president of the liberal advocacy group People for the American Way. 
 Deal W. Hudson, the conservative publisher of the Roman Catholic magazine Crisis and an occasional White House adviser, said, ''I don't think the contrast could be greater between the two candidates.''
 For the activists, the goal is not just to energize their fellow liberals or conservatives -- although that will be crucial in this election year -- but also to single out sympathetic swing voters in important states, like Republican women who support abortion rights, or Catholics drawn to Democratic economic policies but Republican cultural positions.
 To that end, the advocacy groups are trying to define the opposition candidate as extreme, ''outside the mainstream.''
 The National Right to Life Committee recently denounced Senator Kerry in its newspaper for what it called his commitment to ''unlimited abortion on demand.'' Mr. Hudson said conservative Catholics were urging American bishops to deny communion to Mr. Kerry, a Catholic, whom he described as ''not just a liberal but a liberal's liberal'' and an ''enthusiast'' of abortion.
 On the other side, the major abortion rights groups are planning a ''March for Women's Lives'' in Washington on April 25 to protest what its organizers call an ''anti-choice White House.'' Kate Michelman, president of Naral Pro-Choice America, said her movement was determined not to let Mr. Bush avoid the issue, arguing that ''he wants to take the right to choose away from American women.''
 Similar organizing is under way among gay rights and social conservative groups on gay marriage.
 There are stark differences between the candidates on these issues. Mr. Bush, for example, supports a constitutional amendment to outlaw same-sex marriage, and recently asserted in a speech that an amendment is the only way to protect the institution of marriage from ''activist courts and local officials'' who want to redefine it. Mr. Kerry says such an amendment is wrong; he opposes gay marriage but supports civil unions, and he has accused Mr. Bush of practicing divisive politics on the issue.
 Mr. Bush is on record as a longtime opponent of legalized abortion, except in cases of rape and incest and to save a woman's life. Last fall he signed into law the first federal ban on a specific abortion procedure, the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003, and he has appointed some prominent opponents of a constitutional right to abortion to federal appeals courts. He has said the country is not ready for an outright ban on abortion, although his party's platform calls for one, and he often speaks of working to ''build a culture of life.''
 Mr. Kerry has a 100 percent rating from Naral Pro-Choice America and has promised to block any nominee to the Supreme Court who does not support Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that recognized a right to abortion. He was one of 34 senators who voted against the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, on the ground that that it had no exception for the use of the procedure to protect the health of the pregnant woman.
 Another sharp distinction is on the issue of capital punishment. Mr. Kerry, a former prosecutor, has long opposed the death penalty, although he now supports its use against terrorists and has said he would respect state laws that call for it. Mr. Bush was governor of a state that led the nation in executions.
 The campaigns themselves, so far, are not hammering those differences as hard as they might, at least with general audiences. This is not surprising, some analysts say. ''When you're running nationwide with so many different constituencies, it's hard to take on these issues without wondering whether you're going to drive away as many as you attract,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center.
 History suggests both the effectiveness and the risks. The 1988 campaign of the first President George Bush devastated the Democratic nominee, Michael S. Dukakis, by defining him as soft on crime and excessively devoted to civil liberties. Four years later, though, Republican appeals to ''family values'' and the declaration of a cultural war at the party's convention were widely thought to have backfired. The younger Mr. Bush campaigned carefully on social issues in 2000.
 These days, Bush campaign officials say the social issues may not be front and center, like terrorism and the economy, but will be dealt with. Terry Holt, a campaign spokesman, asserted that ''there will be a discussion about who is more in the mainstream.''
 The Republican National Committee this week issued a scathing critique of Mr. Kerry's voting record, in advance of a meeting of Southern Republicans. Ed Gillespie, the national party chairman, declared in the critique that Mr. Kerry's ''out-of-the-mainstream positions put him at odds with millions of voters who care about lower taxes, respect for a culture of life, preserving the institution of marriage and providing the funding necessary to enable our troops to do their jobs.''
 Michael Meehan, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign, said he expected the Republicans to use social issues on a very focused state-by-state basis. ''They're not going to have this conversation where suburban women can hear it,'' Mr. Meehan said.
 Even so, Mr. Kerry's allies say he will not sit idly by and allow the Republicans to define him as an outside-the-mainstream social liberal, as they did with Mr. Dukakis. They say he is not afraid to defend his values, and they argue that he did so effectively in his 1996 re-election campaign in Massachusetts against Gov. William F. Weld.
 Still, Rob Gray, a Republican political consultant in Boston who worked for Mr. Weld in 1996, said that handling such issues in Massachusetts, a heavily Democratic and relatively liberal state, was quite different from handling them in a national campaign. Mr. Gray added that while Mr. Kerry was ''a good debater and a good campaigner,'' he had been ''spoiled in Massachusetts.''
 For now, the debate over social issues is largely being waged by the advocacy groups. Activists on both the left and the right fear that the next president will be elected without voters ever realizing the stakes, particularly given the likely turnover in the Supreme Court. The next president could end up appointing two or more justices to the court, where there has not been a death or retirement since 1994.
 Ms. Michelman of Naral Pro-Choice America said she hoped that the April 25 march would put abortion rights ''at the forefront of the political debate at a very important time.'' Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a social conservative organization, said he hoped to see much more emphasis on the gay marriage issue in the Bush campaign.
 One way or the other, the battle over social issues will be joined. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); WOMEN (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COHABITATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE AMERICAN WAY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004



383 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Is It Grade Inflation, or Are Students Just Smarter?

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
A MILLION dollars isn't what it used to be, and neither is an A in college.
 A's -- including A-pluses and A-minuses -- make up about half the grades at many elite schools, according to a recent survey by Princeton of the Ivy League and several other leading universities.
 At Princeton, where A's accounted for 47 percent of grades last year, up from 31 percent in the 1970's, administrators and some faculty have proposed correcting for so-called grade inflation by limiting A's to 35 percent of course grades. 
 Not everyone is convinced there is a problem. A recent study by Clifford Adelman of the United States Department of Education concluded that there were only minor changes in grade distributions between the 1970's and the 1990's, even at highly selective institutions. (A bigger change, he said, was the rise in the number of students withdrawing from courses and repeating courses for higher grades.) 
 Alfie Kohn, author of the coming book ''More Essays on Standards, Grading and Other Follies'' (Beacon Press), says rising grades ''don't in itself prove that grade inflation exists.''
 ''It's necessary to show -- and, to the best of my knowledge, it has never been shown -- that those higher grades are undeserved,'' he said. 
 Is it possible that the A students deserve their A's?
 Getting into colleges like Princeton is far more difficult than it used to be. And increasing numbers of students are being bred like racehorses to breeze through standardized tests and to write essays combining Albert Einstein's brilliance with Mother Teresa's compassion.
 Partly to impress admissions officers, students are loading up on Advanced Placement courses. The College Board said the number taking 10 or more such courses in high school is more than 10 times what it was a decade ago. And classes aimed at helping them do better on the SAT exams are booming.
 ''Back in 1977, when I graduated from high school, it had to be less than 25,000 students nationally who spent more than $100 on preparing for the SAT,'' said John Katzman, founder and chief executive of The Princeton Review, which tutors about 60,000 students a year for the SAT's. ''It was the C students who prepped, not the A students,'' he added. ''Now it's got to be circa 200,000 or 250,000 students who are going to spend more than $400 to prepare for the SAT.''
 But Wayne Camara, vice president of research at the College Board, said that while students are increasingly well prepared, ''that in no way accounts for the shift in grades we are seeing.''
 ''Grades are not like temperatures or weights,'' he said. ''What constitutes an A or a B has changed, both in high school and in college.''
 He said teachers are aware of how competitive the academic world has become and try to help students by giving better grades. ''If you graduated from college in the 1950's and you wanted to go to law school or a graduate program, you could,'' Dr. Camara said. ''Today it is very difficult. You are not going to be able to graduate from Harvard or Princeton with a 2.8 grade point average and get into Georgetown Law.''
 In addition, one recent Princeton graduate who works in investment banking and has participated in recruiting meetings cautioned in a letter to The Daily Princetonian that hiring practices can be superficial, and that grade-point averages are one of the first items scrutinized on a resume.
 Stuart Rojstaczer, a geology professor at Duke who runs the Web site www.Gradeinflation.com, says that higher grades are the result of a culture where the student-consumer is king. ''We don't want to offend students or parents,'' he said. ''They are customers and the customer is always right.''
 Valen E. Johnson, a biostatistics professor at the University of Michigan and author of ''Grade Inflation: A Crisis in College Education'' (Springer Verlag), said the use of student ratings to evaluate teachers also inflates grades: ''As long as our evaluations depend on their opinion of us, their grades are going to be high.'' 
 Even if the Princeton plan is approved, Professor Johnson, who unsuccessfully tried to lower grades at Duke University a few years ago, cautioned that reform is difficult. ''It is not in the interest of the majority to reform the system,'' he said. ''Assigning grades, particularly low grades, is tough, and it requires more work, since low grades have to be backed up with evidence of poor performance.''
 But Princeton and others may take some comfort from Reed College, a selective liberal arts college in Oregon, where the average grade-point average has remained a sobering 2.9 (on a 4.0 scale) for 19 years. 
 The college says it ranks third among all colleges and universities in the proportion of students who go on for Ph.D.s, and has produced more than 50 Fulbright Scholars and 31 Rhodes scholars.
 Still, Colin S. Diver, Reed's president, says graduate schools worried about their rankings are becoming less willing to take students with lower grades because they make the graduate schools appear less selective.
 ''If they admit someone with a 3.0 from Reed who is in the upper half of the class, that counts against them, even if it is a terrific student,'' Mr. Diver said. ''I keep saying to my colleagues here that we can hold ourselves out of the market for only so long.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about grade inflation gave an incomplete title for a book by Alfie Kohn, who said, ''Even if grades have gone up at Princeton, that doesn't in itself prove that grade inflation exists.'' His coming book is ''What Does It Mean to Be Well-Educated? And More Essays on Standards, Grading and Other Follies.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: All A's? Testing at the University of South Alabama. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADE INFLATION (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WRITERS (67%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EDUCATION HOLDINGS 1 INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



384 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3; The World: That Big Sucking Sound

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Villain, and Finding One in China

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
REMEMBER when China was exporting deflation? It was only a couple of years ago when economists warned that the country's cheap manufactured exports could push the world dangerously close to a spiral of ever-lower prices. 
 ''The Chinese economy has certainly emerged as an important ingredient in the U.S. deflation story,'' warned Stephen S. Roach, chief economist of Morgan Stanley in October 2002. The World Bank also chimed in: ''China's overreliance on the external sector 'exports' China's own deflation to the rest of the world.''
 Well, that's over. In March, inflation reared its head in the United States. The Labor Department reported that in the first quarter of the year, consumer prices rose at an annual pace of 5.1 percent. But despite this U-turn in the outlook for prices, one thing didn't change: China is still part of the problem. 
 Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics, wrote to investors last week that ''China's crowding into world commodity markets will boost perceived inflation in all the world's economies for a long time unless its growth trajectory is crimped.'' As an uncertain recovery in the job market and a bloated trade deficit stoke a lingering economic malaise in the United States, the prospect of China emerging as a competitor on an equal footing has led economists, businessmen and politicians to blame it for every economic woe.
 Almost every politician, it seems, agonizes over China's vast labor force sucking in the world's industrial jobs. A few fret about China becoming too large a consumer market, enabling it to dictate terms to American businessmen and policy makers. 
 Some concerns are warranted. China's fast growth has been the major force behind the surge in commodity prices. Last year it ate up half the world's concrete output, a quarter of its steel production, a fifth of its copper and about 40 percent of its coal. 
 Moreover, China's entry into several markets, from toys to T-shirts, pretty much wiped out the other producers. ''There are bound to be uneven effects in sectors they buy from and sectors that compete with them,'' said Jagdish Bhagwati, an economist at Columbia University. 
 But to hear some economists, it would seem that China has locked United States businesses in a deadly kung-fu grip. In a recent paper, John H. Makin of the American Enterprise Institute said China is choking off the profits of American companies with its hunger for commodities pushing up the price of raw materials and its cheap labor holding down the price of finished goods. 
 Even as China soaks up the world's manufacturing jobs, Mr. Makin wrote, Chinese workers are not spending their paychecks, salting them away instead in savings accounts and thus creating an imbalance between booming supply and weak demand.
 Congress has tried to come to the rescue. In February, a bipartisan group of senators argued that China's undervalued currency has played a ''major role'' in the loss of 2.6 million American manufacturing jobs, and submitted a bill to slap a punitive tariff on Chinese imports. 
 But many economists, including Mr. Bhagwati, argue that China is getting a bum rap. ''China's net effect on us is much less than what we think,'' Mr. Bhagwati said.
 For instance, critics in the United States point to last year's $124 billion trade deficit with China as proof that the country is destabilizing the global economy by adding too much demand and too little supply. But China's global trade surplus last year reached only $16 billion-- a better balance of supply and demand than the United States' $517 billion global deficit. 
 Besides, ''much of our bilateral deficit with China is the transfer of previous deficits with Korea and Taiwan,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz, a trade adviser in the Reagan administration who heads the Economic Strategy Institute. ''Most of what China sends to us we stopped making back in the 1970's and 1980's.'' 
 Other economists argue that China's impact on prices is also overstated. In a recent study, economists at the Federal Reserve tried to figure out whether China was in fact exporting inflation or deflation to its trading partners. They concluded it was too small to do that. China accounts for only 5 percent of global exports and global gross domestic product, the study noted, and ''the impact of Chinese exports on global prices has been, while non-negligible, fairly modest.'' 
 Fears of an Asian menace have come and gone before. The recession in the early 90's prompted dread that Japan would become the world's pre-eminent economic power, opening a Japan-bashing season that featured Americans smashing Toyotas with sledgehammers. 
 What seems to trouble Americans most about China is not its current economic impact, but what it might become. According to Goldman Sachs, China's economy will be bigger than America's by 2041. ''It has the potential to displace the U.S.A. as the numero uno,'' said Mr. Prestowitz of the Economic Strategy Institute. ''That's the bottom line.''
 Mr. Weinberg at High Frequency says that Americans will stop worrying about the current Asian menace when they feel better about their own economy. ''If we were creating 200,000 jobs a month no one would care about China,'' he said. 
 The United States might then choose to see China as an upbeat influence: the supplier of cheap manufactured products that helps keep American consumer prices low; a key export market; and a major underwriter of the United States' budget deficit, which plows its savings into Treasury bills, contributing to America's economic recovery by helping keep interest rates low. 
 With fears of deflation dissipating, Mr. Roach at Morgan Stanley has taken to a more upbeat view of China's influence on the world: ''We ought to be thanking the Chinese,'' he wrote last month.
 But Americans probably won't.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Economists and politicians are wary of the impact of China and its growing consumer class on the global economy. (Photo by Frederic J. Brown/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); INFLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); COAL MARKETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (61%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



385 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3; TRAVEL ADVISORY

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:

RUSSIAN SPECIAL -- EuropebyAir, a company based in Canyon Country, Calif., that sells passes outside Europe that are honored by 24 airlines serving the Continent and Britain, has introduced a $99 one-way fare between Brussels and St. Petersburg, Russia. The airlines participating in the FlightPass program serve over 170 cities in Europe. The fare does not include airport taxes. For a listing of routes, airlines and conditions, call (888) 231-9455 or visit www.europebyair.com.

FREE PASS FOR KIDS -- Anyone 18 or older who buys an adult, senior or student fare ticket in VIA Rail Canada Comfort Class (economy) can get a free ticket for a child up to age 11. The deal is good May 29 to Aug. 29 on all routes except the Bras d'Or service between Halifax and Sydney, Nova Scotia, and the 5 p.m. express trains between Montreal and Toronto. Tickets must be bought at least five days in advance; (888) 842-7245 or www.viarail.ca.

ONE-WAY RIDE -- Hertz is looking to move cars from Florida to the Northeast this spring, and to encourage renters to help, it has created the Florida Drive Out program. Through June 28, rates are $9.99 a day and $69.99 a week for an economy-class car, $14.99 a day and $88.99 a week for a compact, $19.99 a day and $98.99 a week for a midsize, $24.99 a day and $104.99 a week for Special Sporty class and $29.99 a day and $109.99 a week for a full size. There is unlimited mileage and no drop-off charge; the cars must be dropped off in one of 25 locations, including Manhattan and the three New York area airports, Hartford, Philadelphia International Airport, Boston, Providence, and Ronald Reagan and Dulles airports. Ask for rate code 1WAY. Blackout dates apply and the maximum rental time is 14 days; (800) 654-3131 or www.hertz.com.

FOLLOW GAUGUIN -- Through May 31, Tahiti Vacations, a tour operator based in Chatsworth, Calif., is selling a five-night stay on Moorea starting at $799 a person, based on double occupancy, in the no-frills Hotel Kaveka on Cook's Bay. That price is based on paying in cash or by check (otherwise, add 3 percent). It includes round-trip air fare from Los Angeles on Air Tahiti Nui, accommodations and room tax, transfers and baggage handling, and inter-island transit. Departures are Sunday to Wednesday, and airport fees add about $70 a person. Information: (800) 553-3477 or www.tahitivacations.net.

MIAMI BEACH DEBUT -- The 86-room Circa39 Hotel opened recently at 3900 Collins Avenue in Miami Beach, and through May 26 it is offering introductory rates starting at $79 a room (tax and tip extra), with a two-night minimum. The hotel, which used to be the Copley Plaza, dates from 1939. It features a pool with massage cabanas, and a bar. Rooms have Internet access; (877) 824-7223 or www.circa39.com. JOSEPH SIANO


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); AIRPORT OPERATION (76%); TRAINS (76%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (63%); TOUR OPERATORS (60%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Joseph Siano

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (57%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BELGIUM (88%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



386 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 4; LONG ISLAND JOURNAL

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Yonder in Farmingdale, the Wild Blue

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
TO start her flying lesson, Lindsay Arnott did a preflight check. Scanning gauges, altimeters and air-speed indicators, she flipped switches and ticked off a list of checks and rechecks with Steve Campbell, her instructor. Then Ms. Arnott revved up the engines, started the fuel pumps on the twin-engine Piper Seminole and taxied to the runway at Republic Airport in Farmingdale. Pushing the throttle forward, she pulled back on the stick and took off on wobbly wings to practice figure eights at 1,600 feet in the skies over Long Island. 
 Ms. Arnott, 23, is a professional pilot-aeronautical science major working on a bachelor's degree at Farmingdale State University. Besides her academic classes, she flies three times a week. As an undergraduate, she has accrued about 325 flight hours, earned a private pilot's license and instrument flying rating and is working on her commercial ticket. By the time she graduates in May, Ms. Arnott plans to be certified as a flight instructor, at which point she is guaranteed work at Farmingdale State University's flight school. A job at the school after graduation is a recently implemented perk, said Capt. Edward Tanza, director of training operations at the aviation center. Of the 20 certified flight instructors at Farmingdale, 6 are graduates of the program. 
 But Ms. Arnott has larger ambitions. Once she has 1,500 flying hours, she hopes to land a job as a commercial pilot, perhaps with a regional airline. ''I want to fly the big jets,'' she said. ''I want to travel the world.'' Until recently, the aviation program at Farmingdale State, founded in 1948, emphasized maintenance, aviation administration and avionics, not flying. But with the delivery of a $2.7 million fleet of 13 new single- and twin-engine Piper aircraft last fall, a revamping of the flight program and recent changes in top personnel, Farmingdale has zipped to the top tier of pilot programs in the Northeast. 
 ''It's one of the great untold stories of public aviation,'' said Lou Howard, a State University of New York trustee and former state assemblyman who got Farmingdale's course off the ground with three planes in 1969. It was a two-year program then. 
 Mr. Tanza, a retired airline captain, has flown DC-8's, DC-10's and 727's all over the globe. When Mr. Tanza, 59, took over Farmingdale's aviation center a year and a half ago, he set up a schedule for students that mimicked commercial airlines. 
 ''When they leave here, they have already been exposed to that type,'' Mr. Tanza said. ''Other schools really don't prepare them for the next step.'' Flying out of the fourth-busiest airport in the state, they also experience a complex airspace system, he said. 
 Additionally, pilots-in-training are required to have 35 hours of ground school, one-on-one with the instructor, to meet the rating, Mr. Tanza said. As part of a standardized program with an extensive syllabus, they spend hours in simulators familiarizing themselves with the instrumentation and take courses in aviation history, aviation law, advanced avionics and cockpit automation as well as English, economics and meteorology. 
 When Mr. Campbell arrived at Farmingdale seven years ago, he was the only flight instructor. The school, which opened its aviation education center and flight facility, with hangar, classrooms and a simulator laboratory at Republic in 1995, had no mechanic and a high student attrition rate. Students flew a handful of aging single-engine Cessnas and slow-flying, poorly equipped Diamond Katanas that were limited to being flown in good weather under visual flight rules.
 ''Within the last two years, it's really changed dramatically,'' Mr. Campbell said. Jonathan C. Gibralter, Farmingdale's president, said the aviation school's only competition on the Island was Dowling College, a private school in Oakdale. 
 ''They can't touch us on tuition,'' Dr. Gibralter said. 
 Tuition at Farmingdale runs $4,350 a year plus an additional $6,000 flight fee a semester, from which hourly flying fees are deducted. Fifteen of the 100 students in the professional pilot program are expected to graduate from the program in May; another 100 students are enrolled in an aviation administration program. Next fall, 150 students will be flying, a record number. 
 Dan Ciccone, 22, of Dix Hills, a senior, opted for Farmingdale because of the lower state tuition and the up-and-coming program. 
 ''They built it up from when I came here,'' said Mr. Ciccone, who coordinates flights as a dispatcher at the school as part of an extensive work-study program. ''It's a completely different program than it was originally. You've got the new planes, new scheduling policies, everything fits. Our aircraft are better than anyone else's aircraft around.''

'Honoring Her Honor'
 When the Suffolk County League of Women Voters decided to hold an ''Honoring Her Honor'' luncheon for female judges recently, the tally from the bench was 31. 
 ''We were staggered by the statistics,'' said Jacqui Lofaro, president of the league. 
 In the 30 years since Anne F. Mead was appointed district court judge, the first woman to be appointed or elected to a court of record in Suffolk, the number of female judges has increased 3,000 percent. 
 ''Still only around 28 percent of all judges in the county, it represents lasting change,'' Ms. Lofaro said.
 Judge Mead, 79 and now retired, joined 200 guests at a buffet at Villa Lombardi in Holbrook. Judge Mead said that when she graduated from law school in 1961, there were only five female lawyers in Suffolk. Finding a job was difficult. 
 ''People were not used to going to a woman lawyer,'' she recalled. After going to nearly every law firm in Suffolk, she landed a job doing title closings. Later, she was appointed to the Public Service Commission and started her own practice before becoming a judge.
 Judge Mead said she considered herself a trailblazer in the judiciary. 
 ''They weren't used to a woman on the bench at all,'' she said, though women served as justices of the peace on the East End. ''At first, the male attorneys weren't too happy with it, but as time wore on it worked out fine.''
 When Marion T. McNulty, an acting Supreme Court justice and supervising judge of the matrimonial part in Suffolk, came onto the bench in 1988, she was the first woman elected to countywide judicial office. 
 ''Suffolk was nearly 300 years old at that point in time,'' Justice McNulty said. ''It was a long time coming in this county.''
 What was once a challenge, she said, is now an accepted fact. 
 ''Attorneys accept women judges,'' she said. ''Other judges accept women judges. The political parties accept women as judicial candidates. I think that we have made our mark.''
 One of the newest town justices, Lisa Rana, started work at the East Hampton Town Justice Court in January. She seemed surprised by all the fuss. Judge Rana said integrity, discipline and personality were the important qualifications. ''Now there are more women judges because people are seeing it as less of a gender issue,'' she said. 
 Justice Gail Prudenti, who grew up in Blue Point, said that when she graduated from law school in 1978, she didn't think judicial opportunities were available for women. 
 That has clearly changed. Justice Prudenti, 51, started her judicial career in 1991 when she was elected to the State Supreme Court. In 2002, she became the first woman from Suffolk to serve as associate justice. Now she is presiding justice of the Appellate Division for the Second Judicial Department. 
 Statewide, Justice Prudenti said, the number of female judges has increased to 27 percent from 11 percent and on the appellate level to 21 percent from 2 percent. 
 ''By diversifying the judiciary with the inclusion of women, a brand of justice is delivered which is more representative of the values and principles held dear in our society as a whole,'' Justice Prudenti said in her keynote address. But she didn't criticize the pre-female judiciary.
 ''The woman judges in this room would not be here if it were not for the support of visionary men,'' Justice Prudenti said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lindsay Arnott is one of 100 students in the professional pilots' program at Farmingdale State University. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (76%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); AVIONICS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



387 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Is Wary of Dangers In Taking Lead Role in Iraq

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE; John F. Burns contributed reporting from Baghdad, Iraq, for this article.

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 17 

 BODY:
The United Nations, once snubbed and excluded from the task of shaping Iraq's future, suddenly finds itself pressed to play the major role in that effort, but it is taking up the task with some foreboding.
 ''There is a mixture of vindication on the one hand and great apprehension on the other,'' said Edward Mortimer, a senior aide to Secretary General Kofi Annan. 
 Mr. Mortimer contrasted the recent calls for assistance from President Bush with the disparagement he said the United Nations had become used to from the administration. ''It's quite nice when you've been generally dissed about your irrelevancy and then suddenly have people coming on bended knee and saying, 'We need you to come back,' '' he said. ''On the other hand, it's quite unnerving to feel you're being projected into a very violent and volatile situation where you might be regarded as an agent or faithful servant of a power that has incurred great hostility.'' 
 With time running out on the June 30 deadline for transfer of power, the United Nations is being looked to as the only institution that can confer immediate global legitimacy on the American goal of bringing representative government to Iraq.
 But the challenges are formidable. United Nations officials are wary of being seen as a replacement occupying power in Iraq and will need to work with the United States while keeping an appropriate public distance from it.
 They are conscious of lingering resentment in Iraq from the days when the United Nations oversaw economic sanctions that caused great hardship. They are fearful of taking on ill-defined responsibility and being blamed for any subsequent failure. And they face mounting criticism at home over the scandal-ridden United Nations oil-for-food program that investigators say enabled Saddam Hussein to pocket more than $10 billion.
 In addition, Mr. Annan's aides say that he is resolved that any United Nations staff members who return to Baghdad have proper protection. He told members of the Security Council this week that he would delay sending people back in force until he had that assurance.
 The last United Nations mission to Iraq pulled out in October, after the bombing of its headquarters on Aug. 19 that killed 22 people, including the mission chief, Sergio Vieira de Mello.
 ''We have an obligation since last summer to insist on clarity and on what is being asked of us,'' Mr. Mortimer said. ''What are the risks? What kind of guarantees can you give us that we are not going to be blown up? And is the job important enough to justify the risk?''
 Nancy Soderberg, vice president of the International Crisis Group and a former senior American diplomat at the United Nations, said: ''In my time at the U.N., I have never seen such a strong determination to stand up to the pressure to go into a situation that's not right in their minds. They're digging in their heels to get something that is, in Kofi's words, realistic, feasible and advisable.''
 Mr. Annan indicated that the United Nations would do its post-transition consulting on elections and the creation of a permanent constitution for Iraq with small teams, and that the organization would not return in force to Iraq ''for the foreseeable future.'' Aides say that probably means only after elections have been held in January 2005, the date that his envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, said on Wednesday would produce a ''genuinely representative government.''
 Mr. Brahimi is due back in New York at the end of the week to brief the Security Council on his recommendations for a caretaker government to be put in place by the June 30 transfer of sovereignty back to Iraq.
 After 11 days of consultation in Iraq, he made preliminary proposals for an interim administration led by a prime minister, a president and two vice presidents to be chosen by him, a group of Iraqi judges and members of the Iraqi Governing Council and the United States-led occupying force. He also proposed the dissolution of the American-appointed council and a post-transition gathering of leaders to choose a consultative assembly to advise the interim government.
 It is not yet clear how powerful Iraqis have received Mr. Brahimi's proposals. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the Shiite leader whose opposition effectively forced the United States to abandon its earlier proposals for the turnover of power, has remained silent about the matter.
 Mr. Bush praised Mr. Brahimi in a White House news conference on Tuesday.
 A Security Council ambassador from a country that had opposed the war a year ago emphasized that this year there would be no dissension. ''It will be a mood of cooperation,'' he said. ''If the Americans and the British come up with a way to really make the transfer of sovereignty a transfer of real responsibility, things will be quite positive.''
 The new Security Council resolution will outline the United Nations role in the post-transition phase, authorize a United States-led multinational force to help stabilize the country leading up to the elections, and define the relationship between the new Iraqi interim authorities, the United Nations and the United States-led military force.
 The United States ambassador to the United Nations, John D. Negroponte, who is expected to become ambassador in Baghdad in July, said Friday that talk of what the resolution might say was in a very preliminary stage. 
 ''We really haven't gotten into this, there's no specific draft on the table,'' he told reporters. ''There's some thinking that's being done both in our government and in others, but I don't expect anything to surface in the very near future.''
 Mr. Negroponte appealed for nations to send troops for a force dedicated specifically to the protection of the United Nations, but there appeared to be no takers. President Jacques Chirac of France said in a news conference in Algiers that under the current circumstances the proposal was ''totally out of the question.''
 The prospect of the return of the United Nations to Iraq as a powerful arbitrator of the country's future arouses mixed feelings among ordinary Iraqis. Perhaps more than any other people in the Arab world, the Iraqis came to know the United Nations at close quarters during the years when economic sanctions were applied against Saddam Hussein's government. 
 United Nations agencies became responsible for the oil-for-food program, which provided rations that sustained more than 70 percent of the population. Although the program was badly corrupted, many Iraqis remain grateful for what they regard as the impartial and humane behavior of United Nations officials throughout those years.
 When the United Nations compound in Baghdad was bombed last August, there was widespread grief and even a sense of shame among Iraqis that the organization could be subjected to such violence. 
 But there is also a widespread feeling that the United Nations, lacking any powers other than persuasion, may not be resolute enough to withstand the sort of pressures it is likely to endure during a period of potential tumult in Iraqi politics. 
 When Mr. Brahimi spoke on Iraqi television this week outlining his proposals for reworking the American plan to carry Iraq to sovereignty this summer and to elections, some Iraqis watched with concern. ''It sounds good,'' an Iraqi engineer said. ''But how strong is Brahimi? How strong is the U.N.?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



388 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: This Ship Is So Big, The Verrazano Cringes

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
A Queen does not have to live by everyday rules, especially not a Queen whose, um, measurements exceed those of famous ancestors.
 The Queen in question here is the new Queen Mary 2, the 1,132-foot-long Cunarder whose maiden voyage to New York this week has steamship buffs longing for the days when crossing the Atlantic took days, not hours, and when the ships were as stylish as the passengers. Dowdy freighters and impersonal container ships the grand old ocean liners were not. 
 ''This is like the second coming for steamship buffs,'' said William Miller, the author of 60 books on ships and the adjunct curator of the ocean liner collection at the South Street Seaport Museum. ''It's almost mind-boggling, a liner of this size arriving in New York.'' 
 The Queen Mary 2 is the longest, tallest, widest and heaviest nonmilitary vessel in history. That includes the ship's famous relatives, the original Queen Mary (now a hotel by the docks in Long Beach, Calif.) and the Queen Elizabeth 2.
 The Queen Mary 2 is also the most expensive ship in the world, both to build and to board. It cost $800 million, and accommodations range from $1,869 for a cabin to $27,499 for what the Cunard Line calls a ''grand duplex.''
 As if all those superlatives were not enough, Mr. Miller added more: the most celebrated ship of its time, the most publicized ship of its time, the most anxiously awaited ship of its time. ''I was getting tired last year, hearing another rivet had been put in the hull or some such, but everybody was on the edge of their seat,'' he said.
 Being the longest ship in the world -- 86 feet longer than the Chrysler Building is tall -- has its headaches, though. When the Queen Mary 2 docks in Manhattan on Thursday morning, it will be too long for the pier. David Gevanthor, a vice president at Cunard, joked that the Queen Mary 2 will be partly in New Jersey because it will extend more than 100 feet beyond its berth at the Passenger Ship Terminal.
 Maritime types like Mr. Miller cannot wait to see that. ''She's going to hang out in the river, which has never happened before,'' Mr. Miller said.
 The last time New York welcomed a too-long ship, the city lengthened its too-short pier. The year was 1911; the ship was the Olympic, and the carpenters added 75 feet of wood, Mr. Miller said. This time, a tugboat will patrol the Hudson River to keep other vessels at a distance as the Queen Mary 2 comes and goes.
 That is, assuming the Queen Mary 2 makes it under the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. If the Queen Mary 2 were to sail under at high tide, the clearance would be only 13 feet. Indeed, the bridge influenced the shape of the ship. ''It looks squat and a little bit dumpy, and that's because of the Verrazano,'' Mr. Miller said. ''The funnel is flatter than it should be.'' From keel to black-and-red funnel is 236 feet.
 Capt. Paul Wright, who was at the helm last month when the Queen Mary 2 arrived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was not worried about scraping the Verrazano or about docking in New York. From the ship's bridge, a wide room with plate-glass windows where navigation charts appear on flat-screen computer monitors and the ship's moves are controlled with joysticks, he said that the QM2 handled better than the QE2.
 ''The QE2 needs good powerful tugs to bring her in, depending on the tide,'' Captain Wright explained. ''This one, we will have a tug standing by for the first time, but she would be quite capable of maneuvering in on her own.''
 If the weather is bad and the water is rough, there are always the bow thrusters, three large propellers. ''We can literally make the ship move sideways,'' he said. ''We can quite comfortably move the ship against a 25- to 30-knot wind.'' If the bow thrusters can be switched on. A malfunction in Lisbon last week delayed the ship's departure, but Cunard said the problem had been fixed.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will welcome the ship on Thursday. Tomorrow, he is expected to announce that the cruise industry has agreed to pay additional port fees that will cover modernizing the Passenger Ship Terminal and adding a berth in Brooklyn. Last year, the city rejected a plan for a $100 million terminal at Pier 7 in Brooklyn.
 Tomorrow's announcement comes as cruise line officials worry that the Passenger Ship Terminal cannot handle all the traffic headed to New York. Carnival, the big cruise line that owns Cunard, has more than a dozen ships under construction. Royal Caribbean announced last year that it was moving three ships to Bayonne, N.J.
 ''Even before they built the Queen Mary 2, there were more and more of the ocean liners, the cruisers, leaving from New York,'' said Burchenal Green, the executive vice president of the National Maritime Historical Society. ''The Queen Elizabeth 2 was a start in helping to bring the cruisers and the ocean liners back, and I think the Queen Mary 2 will be significant to New York in the way that the QE2 was. If you remember 20 years ago, the whole New York harbor was sort of in decay.''
 The city says the cruise industry accounts for 3,320 jobs and adds almost $600 million to the city's economy. Forecasts that passenger volumes will double by 2014 have steamship buffs shaking their heads in wonder.
 ''We thought the age of the big superliner, and I know that sounds redundant, was over'' in the 1970's, Mr. Miller said. ''In 1980, National Geographic said that the QE2, at 70,000 tons, would be the last big ocean liner we'd ever see until there are floating hotels in outer space.''
 The QE2 is now the 79th largest ocean liner in the world, he said, and 100,000-ton liners are almost ordinary. The QM2 weighs 151,400 tons, which is about as much as 390 fully-loaded 747's, the 500-passenger airplanes that did as much as anything to displace ocean liners as the world's high-volume people carriers.
 But a 747 does not have 22 elevators opening on 17 decks; 14 bars and clubs; 6 restaurants; 5 outdoor swimming pools or a planetarium. A 747 does not have 708 staterooms with balconies, 281 interior staterooms looking out on a six-story atrium, 4 suites and 6 penthouses.
 Or 1,253 crew members who need to restock those personal necessities. How to recognize a crew member when the Queen Mary 2 is in port? ''That would be the person walking straight for the store that sells the fabric softener and the toothpaste,'' said David Dobbs, a waiter.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Queen Mary 2 has 17 decks, 14 bars and clubs, 6 restaurants, 5 outdoor pools and a planetarium.
 Artwork inside the ship pays tribute to another Queen No. 2, Elizabeth. Capt. Paul Wright, right, says that with propellers called bow thrusters, he can make the ship move sideways. If it were to sail under the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge at high tide, the clearance would be 13 feet. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); WRITERS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



389 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Embroiled First Selectman Takes Leave

BYLINE: By JOE WOJTAS

 BODY:
STONINGTON residents were shocked three weeks ago when the popular First Selectman Peter N. Dibble was charged in connection with sexual misconduct involving a girl beginning when she was 10 years old.
 They had been even more surprised by Mr. Dibble's refusal to resign or take a leave of absence as he fights the charge of risk of injury to a minor that could send him to prison for up to 20 years and land him on the state's registry of sexual offenders. 
 But on Wednesday, Mr. Dibble, 59, told the Board of Selectmen that he would take a 30-day paid leave of absence effective immediately. 
 During that period Mr. Dibble, a Republican, and the town will negotiate a possible financial settlement in exchange for his resignation. Residents will have to vote to approve any settlement agreement that exceeds $20,000. Mr. Brown said he expected the settlement offer to be less than $100,000. 
 ''This was a very difficult decision for Peter to make,'' said Mr. Dibble's lawyer, Ronald Stevens. ''He was determined, though, to put the best interests of the town ahead of his.'' 
 Selectman William Brown will be the acting first selectman in Mr. Dibble's absence. 
 Mr. Brown said Mr. Dibble's leave of absence would end the ''media frenzy.''
 ''No town wants to go through this,'' Mr. Brown said after Wednesday's meeting. ''Waterbury went through this; Bridgeport went through this and the state is going through this with the governor. Maybe tonight we've got some closure.''
 Mr. Dibble had said he had no intention of leaving office and residents had discovered there was nothing in the town charter or state law that they could use to make him step down unless he is convicted and sent to prison.
 But that hasn't stopped them from trying. 
 When she learned about the details of the charge a few days after his arrest, Denise Donelin spent the entire day sitting in the lobby of Town Hall with three large signs calling on Mr. Dibble to resign. Mr. Dibble had to pass by the signs as he showed up for work as did hundreds of other people who visited Town Hall that day.
 Ms. Donelin said ''her blood boiled'' when she read that in the affidavit for his arrest Mr. Dibble accused the girl of being ''the instigator'' when the girl's family members confronted him about the allegation.
 ''I'm just an advocate for children. I guess I just don't want to see him get away with this,'' she said. ''People who work for him in Town Hall shouldn't have to look at him every day.'' 
 Possibly paving the way for Mr. Dibble's decision to take a leave, the Stonington Board of Finance voted on Tuesday to eliminate Mr. Dibble's $6,000 expense account for fiscal 2005 as well as a $2,335 raise that he had been scheduled to receive on July 1. Mr. Dibble, who was at the Tuesday meeting and insisted he had no intention of resigning or accepting a financial settlement to leave office, calmly listened and watched as the board voted.
 Minutes later, when the meeting concluded, Mr. Dibble said the effort to eliminate his raise and expense account came as a complete surprise. ''I was appalled that not one of them had the courage to pick up the phone and talk to me about this in advance,'' he said.
 The day after the details of the charge became public, Mr. Dibble's two colleagues on the Board of Selectmen, Mr. Brown and Peter Balestracci, told him he must resign at a selectmen's meeting. Both men said it was difficult for them to call for Mr. Dibble's resignation because they have been friends with him for many years. Mr. Balestracci grew up with Mr. Dibble in Mystic and Mr. Brown has been his running mate in past elections.
 ''In light of what you have been accused of, I don't think you can concentrate on performing your duties and responsibilities required by the position you hold,'' Mr. Balestracci told Mr. Dibble, who was sitting a few feet away. ''In light of what you have been accused of, I feel you have lost the faith and confidence of the people who have elected you.'' 
 Mr. Balestracci said morale in Town Hall has hit an all-time low and both he and Mr. Brown have received many angry calls from residents wanting Mr. Dibble to step down. 
 According to the affidavit for Mr. Dibble's arrest warrant, Stonington police received a complaint in December after the girl, now 13, told three friends at a sleepover that Mr. Dibble had kissed her with his mouth open and sucked her fingers on as many as 40 occasions over a three-year period that ended last summer. The State Department of Children and Families conducted its own investigation and said it substantiated charges of sexual abuse against Mr. Dibble. If Mr. Dibble is convicted under the sexual assault portion of the risk of injury statute he would have to register with the state's sex offender database. 
 According to the affidavit, Mr. Dibble admitted to the girl's mother that he kissed the girl with his mouth open, nibbled her fingers and cuddled her. He told investigators he never had an erection with the girl and said he did not consider the incidents a sexual matter. He said in the affidavit that he first talked to the girl about the kissing when she was 10 and later he talked with her mother about the kissing, which he said became more aggressive and prolonged. 
 Mr. Dibble and his lawyer, Mr. Stevens, have declined to comment about the allegations. Mr. Stevens said Mr. Dibble will ''vigorously contest'' the allegations in New London Superior Court, where he has entered a not guilty plea. 
 Mr. Brown, who also is chairman of the Republican Town Committee, said he asked Mr. Dibble to resign after reading what he called the ''distasteful'' allegations contained in the affidavit. Mr. Dibble, who is twice-divorced with no children and currently single, told him then he had no intentions of stepping down. 
 Some residents said the town will now be considered alongside communities such as Waterbury, where Mayor Philip Giordano is serving a 37-year prison sentence for sexually assaulting two pre-teen girls, and Bridgeport, where Mayor Joe Ganim is serving nine years on corruption charges. Last year, the General Assembly rejected a measure that would have allowed towns to remove mayors and first selectmen facing serious criminal charges. 
 Ms. Donelin said she would like the town to hold a referendum so residents can vote on whether Mr. Dibble should leave office.
 With letters and editorials in local newspapers urging him to resign, Ms. Donelin was among about 30 residents circulating a petition that calls on Mr. Dibble to resign. Ms. Donelin's daughter Lindsey is collecting signatures at Stonington High School, where last semester Mr. Dibble helped teach a class that encourages students to get involved in local government. Mr. Dibble stopped teaching the class after reports surfaced that he was being investigated.
 Mr. Dibble has served 10 years as first selectmen, six from 1981 to 1993 when he was a member of the Board of Selectmen. He then left to work in the administrations of governors Lowell P. Weicker Jr. and John G. Rowland, where he worked on intergovernmental issues as well as economic and community development. He came back to local politics in 2001 and has easily won the past two elections.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Dibble, left, the first selectman of Stonington, is fighting the charge of risk of injury to a minor with a girl who is now 13 years old. One angry resident, Denise Donelin, top right, organized a petition asking him to resign. Joan Driscoll signing the petition. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CITIES (88%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SICK LEAVE (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); APPROVALS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



390 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Home Design Magazine; Pg. 100

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: ABSOLUTELY PREFAB

BYLINE: By Alastair Gordon. 
Alastair Gordon is the author of ''Beach Houses: Andrew Geller'' (Princeton Architectural Press).

 BODY:
Adam Kalkin's work explores an enigmatic zone in which art, architecture and mass-market consumerism converge in a quirky way. ''I love to watch the metamorphosis of a thing changing from a high-culture object to a low-culture pill that can be easily swallowed,'' he said one morning in March, as he led a television crew shooting a segment for the Fine Living Network through the steel cells of his patented Quik House, a prototype of his latest prefab design. (The house was the subject of a recent exhibition, ''Suburban House Kit,'' at Deitch Projects' Wooster Street gallery in New York.)
 Kalkin's house is made from recycled shipping containers, the kind you see in the dockyards of Brooklyn and Port Elizabeth, N.J. The basic Quik House kit, which costs $76,000, is a 2,000-square-foot structure made of five modified containers in a simple building-block arrangement: three 40-footers rest on two 20-footers. It comes in orange or natural Rust Bloom and can be trucked to the site and erected in a week, according to the designer and the brochure, which comes with the kit and shows a faceless couple standing with a faceless dog in front of the boxlike structure. Optional features include skylights, $1,500 for three; a stainless-steel kitchen, $24,000; and mahogany sliding doors, $4,000 (figures don't include the price of the building site or construction costs). 
 For this prototype, five containers were artfully welded to create a two-story pavilion, complete with a cozy fire burning in a stainless-steel hearth. The central living area was furnished with orange couches and a kitchen island equipped with a Viking range and dishwasher. Floors were covered with custom-designed carpeting by the artist Jim Isermann.
 The idea of the mail-order-kit house has been part of the American dream since 1908, when houses by mail were first offered in the Sears, Roebuck & Company catalog. More recently, there have been efforts to adapt steel containers to a similar kind of prefabricated housing. Kalkin has been investigating their potential since 1992; in 1993 he used one in a performance-art piece, ''Addiction.'' Since then, he has worked with them in seven different projects, with the goal of arriving at a mass-market commodity. ''You confront a whole other set of problems when you try to turn an artistic thing into a multiple commercial product,'' he confessed.
 But it makes sense: containers are readily available and virtually indestructible. They can be easily stacked and transferred from ship to truck to building site. They come in an assortment of sizes and are relatively cheap: a container 20 feet by 8 feet costs about $1,500, while, oddly, a 40-foot-long container costs even less, about $1,200. Some people are attracted by their stark industrial beauty -- their rusting corrugation and the hieroglyphic markings stenciled on their sides.
 While Kalkin admires their structural integrity and affordability, he is equally intrigued by how they plug into what he calls the ''global economic cult.''
 ''These things have been sitting on ships all over the world, carrying God knows what,'' he said. ''They have all of this veiled mystery.'' For a vacation house in coastal Maine, he used 12 shipping containers arranged in a double-T formation. For an earlier prefab project -- ''$99,000 House'' -- Kalkin used three containers as a structural core.
 To relieve the sense of coldness and claustrophobia, he removes the end panels or cuts an opening where one is needed. ''You just take a welding torch and do whatever you want,'' he said. The prototype has large window openings and three skylights.
 Although his work grows out of the edgy milieu of the New York art scene, Kalkin is marketing his houses to a mass audience.
 A version of the Quik House will most likely be built on the outskirts of Utrecht, the Netherlands, for a program (partly sponsored by the government) that invites artists to respond to housing issues. Kalkin is also developing 40-by-40-foot versions of the house to be used by the United Nations for refugee shelter.
 He has also started to design variations on the basic prototype for private clients, including the fashion designer Cynthia Rowley. ''It's so simple and resourceful an idea, like making a silk purse out of a sow's ear,'' Rowley said. ''You just add friends, and you have an instant utopia.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Heavy metal: Adam Kalkin, top left, in one of the shipping containers used to make the prototype of his Quik House, recently shown at Deitch Projects in SoHo.
 Precious cargo: for the SoHo show, the Quik House was customized with skylights and mahogany sliding doors, carpeting by Jim Isermann, a video installation by Aernout Mik and a futuristic ''garden'' by Tobias Rehberger. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMY ECKERT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (70%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



391 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6; BRIEFINGS: ECONOMY

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: MORE JOBS IN STATE

BYLINE: By Jess Bruder

 BODY:
New Jersey gained 12,900 jobs in March, increasing the number of nonfarm payroll jobs in the state to more than four million, the highest employment level since December 2000, Labor Commissioner Albert G. Kroll announced on Wednesday. 
Leading this growth were professional and business services, which added 6,700 jobs, and trade, transportation, and utilities, which added 5,000 jobs. Their gains offset losses in manufacturing and construction, which shrunk by 2,000 and 1,700 jobs, respectively. The March unemployment rate was 5.2 percent, down from 5.4 percent in February. Jess Bruder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FARM PAYROLLS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



392 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; WORTH NOTING

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Holland American Ship To Stop in New London

BYLINE: By JOE WOJTAS

 BODY:
It may not be St. Thomas or Nassau, but city and tourism officials hope New London will soon be a don't-miss port for the growing number of ships sailing along the New England coast each summer.
 On May 14, the Holland America ship Maasdam will stop in New London for about seven hours with its 1,200 passengers and return in October. 
 Some people may wonder why ships would stop in New London, a small, former whaling port with a struggling downtown and no big tourist attractions. 
 Not George Cassidy.
 ''New London is the perfect place for a cruise ship to visit,' said Mr. Cassidy, the executive director of the state's Cruise Ship Task Force. 
 He said that's because Mystic Seaport, Mystic Aquarium and the Submarine Force Museum in Groton are just a short bus ride away. 
 There is Fort Griswold in Groton, the newly refurbished Fort Trumbull in New London, the Essex Steam Train and Riverboat, Gillette Castle in East Haddam and the Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme. He said trips will probably not be offered to the two nearby casinos.
 Mr. Cassidy said it all appeals to veteran cruise ship passengers who have want more than just Caribbean beaches and are looking for trips that focus on history and culture. 
 He said the visit is expected to bring about $100,000 to the local economy.
 Peter Glankoff , the director of communications for Mystic Seaport, said the area will keep the passengers busy.
 ''New London is the port of entry for the whole Mystic region,'' he said. ''There's more than enough for people to do right here.''
 This will be the second time a cruise ship has visited New London. The smaller Regal Empress visited two years ago.
 The Maasdam will be greeted by tugboats spraying water, a 14-gun salute from Fort Trumbull and music from a fife and drum corps.''The future will all depend on how this port call goes. Cruise ships rely on feedback from their passengers,'' Mr. Cassidy said. 
 ''The other cruise lines will be watching very closely what happens here.'' JOE WOJTAS


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); BEACHES (78%); TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); HISTORY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); TRAINS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



393 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4; PRACTICAL TRAVELER

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Digging Up Low Web Fares

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI. 
E-mail: tedeschi@nytimes.com

 BODY:
INGRID AGUIRRE HAPPOLDT, a program officer for a nonprofit organization in Oakland, Calif., no longer surfs for bargain fares the way she once did.
 Ms. Happoldt said she used to chase down bargain fares promoted in e-mail newsletters or ads, ''but when you actually went to the airline site and put in the dates you wanted, the fare always ended up being different from what was advertised, and you're kind of like, 'Huh!'''
 Indeed, you could argue that it's more of a waste of time pursuing fare sales online than it was a few years ago. Fully 75 percent of the adult population of the United States is now online, compared with less than half in 2000, according to Nielsen//NetRatings, a company that measures Internet use. And with every passing year, more of them are willing to pull out their credit cards and compete for the cheap flights with other Internet users. 
 Meanwhile, fare sales are more fleeting than ever. Henry Harteveldt, a travel analyst with the consulting firm Forrester Research, said fare sales generally last three days, compared with five years ago, when they typically lasted a week.
 Still, for those who find news of fare bargains through e-mail messages, newspaper ads or online scuttlebutt, Web sites offer an increasing array of features that help you waste as little time as possible finding out if the fares actually apply to travel dates you might want. But you have to know where to look, and often must waste lots of clicks.
 For instance, in late February I surfed to the Travel Bargains section of America Online's Hartford-New Haven city guide, which lists fare sales for various airports in the area. There, I found a sale fare of $150 round trip from Hartford to San Francisco on American.
 I clicked through to American and typed in dates that conformed to the fare rules on AOL's Travel Bargains page, and crossed my fingers -- in vain, it turned out. The seats American had allotted to the sale rate were apparently sold out. I was quoted a fare of $536, and I had no way of quickly figuring out how to find the sale fare -- on American's Web site, at least.
 Instead, I logged onto Travelocity. There, I selected the Flexible Dates option when typing in my destination and arrival cities, and chose a range of travel dates. Rather than returning a page of specific flights, the site displayed the best possible fares for that date range, starting with the $150 round-trip option.
 Clicking on that fare yielded a calendar showing me the departure dates for which the fare was available in theory. I spent nearly 10 minutes clicking on the ''available'' dates, only to have the screen refresh with a new calendar telling me that those dates were no longer available. I gave up, figuring word had spread so quickly that I was simply too late.

Results at Last
 The next morning I visited the Travel Bargains page again, and saw the American fare was now $145. I immediately clicked through to Travelocity's fare calendar, and after trying a few weekend dates that were sold out, I hit paydirt: a Friday-through-Monday trip to San Francisco for $176 (after taxes and fees).
 Travelocity's fare calendar is not unique. Expedia and Orbitz also provide calendar options, for those who are more interested in finding inexpensive fares than traveling on specific dates. For each of Expedia's Featured Travel Deals listed on the home page, the site offers a page with a flight booking box. When you scan the mouse over the calendar icon within that box, a calendar shows available dates for the sale.
 Both the Travelocity and Expedia calendars can be misleading, though, since they do not show the actual fares available at that moment. Travelocity's calendar shows dates that conform to the fare sale rules, not the dates with available seats. As I found, it takes a little clicking and some luck to land a bargain.
 On Orbitz, meanwhile, clicking the Flexible Dates button in the air fare search box leads to a page with a host of options, including, among other things, a search for low weekend fares only. The fares shown here are actually available, which explains why, at first glance, they seem higher than those shown on the calendars of Orbitz's competitors. (A My Dates Are Flexible button on Expedia lists each day's fares on a calendar.) 
 Among airline Web sites, Southwest.com is among the most user friendly for those looking to capitalize on a fare sale. Southwest's Shortcut feature, available on the top right-hand side of the home page, presents travelers with a color-coded calendar showing which prices you'll pay for certain travel dates. Promotional fares, like $99 one-way fares for coast-to-coast flights, are typically unavailable Thursday, Friday, Sunday and Monday.

Exceptions to the Rule
 And though some travelers no longer even look for bargain fares on those days, there are more exceptions than you might think, according to Jon Douglas, senior editor of SmarterLiving.com, a travel-related informational site. ''For domestic flights, Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday could be the cheapest,'' he said. ''For airlines like AirTran, it's every day but Friday and Sunday. But if Delta matches an AirTran sale, they'll follow those rules. It's really all over the map.''
 To help consumers find the cheap fares quickly, SmarterLiving.com distributes, at no charge, weekly e-mail newsletters compiling last-minute air fare sales for more than 80 cities, as well as another newsletter covering longer-running deals on airline tickets, rental cars and other travel products.
 The SmarterLiving Web site is itself useful for finding cheap fares, but again, be prepared to waste clicks at times, chasing fare bargains that no longer exist, or that have such limited availability that they might as well not exist. It's a problem that online travel agencies battle constantly. Since their systems do not monitor prices for routes continuously, they must hear from the airline, a customer or an alert employee about a fare selling out.
 And even though it sometimes feel as if Web sites are baiting customers with cheap flights, only to switch them to higher fares, analysts said online travel companies are careful not to run afoul of the law in this regard. Bill Mosley, a spokesman for United States Department of Transportation, said that airlines promoting fare sales must generally make available 10 percent of their seats for that route for the advertised price. ''That doesn't mean there has to be any seats on a specific flight or day or aircraft,'' he said. ''We look at the whole course of the promotion.''
 Mr. Mosley said airlines have complied with that policy in recent years. The last carriers cited for failing to make a reasonable number of sale seats available were US Airways and American Trans Air, both in 1997.
 With such a slim number of seats available during sales, and so many bargain hunters scanning the Internet, Web sites are left to do their best in removing promotions, while acknowledging they sometimes fall short. Mr. Douglas said SmarterLiving.com is updated frequently throughout the day. But he added, ''it's still possible not to get what you're looking for, because availability changes in real time.'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Margaret Riegel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); AOL INC (53%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



394 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2066 words

HEADLINE: Steinbeck, at Last, Welcomed Home

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY. 
DEAN E. MURPHY is chief of the San Francisco bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
THE city of Salinas and the surrounding valley about 100 miles south of San Francisco are commonly known as Steinbeck Country, the consequence of an uneasy reconciliation between the Nobel laureate in the years since his death and the place where he was born and raised.
 During his lifetime, John Steinbeck and his hometown became so estranged that the author once objected to the naming of a local school building after him because he figured it would be an excuse to cuss his name. Theirs was a troubled and mostly unforgiving relationship, one with spells of love and hate and most emotions in between.
 ''Steinbeck was never popular with the growers here,'' said Basil E. Mills, the founder of one of the large farming businesses that dominate the Salinas Valley. ''It is a unique marriage on both sides.'' 
 The museum built here to honor Steinbeck has ''national'' in its title, but the visitor should not be distracted by the suggestion. The National Steinbeck Center is best explored and appreciated as a local place, an institution conceived by and for the people of this conflicted rural region where Steinbeck's books were burned and where he was made to feel unwelcome for much of his life.
 The center is not officially called a museum because it was always intended to be much more. Last year it played host to 265 community events, from Rotary Club meetings to wedding receptions. It is the keystone of a revitalization plan that is expected to bring movie theaters and a hotel to the sagging north end of Main Street, which in Steinbeck's youth was mostly swampland. Already, the modern 40,000-square-foot brick and glass center draws 90,000 visitors each year to a downtown once left for dead.
 Last fall, just after the center's fifth anniversary, a $5.6 million wing opened with exhibits about agriculture in the Salinas Valley. Fund-raising begins soon for another proposed expansion, a $3 million wing with classrooms and art galleries that will adjoin the spacious glass central hall and pair of windowless exhibit wings. Though some of the money for the center has come from the city's redevelopment agency, a good chunk has been donated by local residents and businesses, including some that would have nothing to do with Steinbeck before his death in 1968.
 ''It is a community institution that people care about, and they are willing to mix it up and get their hands on it,'' said Alice Parman, an independent museum consultant in Eugene, Ore., who researched the center's exhibits. ''There is a lot of ownership and caring about this place.''
 Steinbeck was born in Salinas in 1902 and didn't move away until he went to college, and then only for a brief stint. He knew Salinas as his backyard and drew upon its colorful townspeople for some of his most inspired writing. Though Steinbeck advanced well beyond the valley in both his life and work, eventually settling in New York and Sag Harbor, he was so rooted to this place that he asked in his dying days that his remains be returned here.
 ''His whole sense of home becomes this valley that for him has a moral dynamic,'' said Susan G. Shillinglaw, the director of the Center for Steinbeck Studies at San Jose State University, a collection of Steinbeck papers and memorabilia in the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Library, a public university library about an hour's drive north of here.
 ''Think of all the people trying to find a home in Steinbeck,'' she said. ''George and Lennie, the Joads, and Mack and the boys in 'Cannery Row.' They are all trying to find a place for themselves. That is what American history is about: traveling to find a place to live, that whole sense of going West and discovering not-Eden.''
 At the entrance to the main Steinbeck exhibit here, a floor-to-ceiling map of the Salinas Valley displays the geographic lineage of his books, from an apple pickers' strike in nearby Watsonville that figures prominently in ''In Dubious Battle'' to the ranches of Soledad that provide the rural backdrop for George and Lennie in ''Of Mice and Men.''
 As the exhibit winds through Steinbeck's literary life, capturing everything from his lackluster success as a Broadway playwright to his venture as a speechwriter for Adlai Stevenson, it gives the sense that he rarely felt far from home.
 ''I think I would like to write the story of this whole valley, of the little towns and all the farms and ranches in the wilder hills,'' one display quotes from a letter Steinbeck wrote to a friend in 1933. ''I can see how I would like to do it so that it would be the valley of the world.''
 Even as a teenager, another display reveals, Steinbeck escaped to his upstairs bedroom in the Queen Anne-style home where he was born on Central Avenue, just a short walk from where the Steinbeck Center now stands, and wrote pieces about his hometown that he mailed to magazines.
 ''I never knew what happened to them because I never put a return address on them,'' Steinbeck told an interviewer.
 The meticulously restored house, a stately two-story frame structure with a turret and steeply pitched roof, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It is run by volunteers as a restaurant for lunch (much of their business comes from visitors to the center). The fixed-price menu usually includes something named after the author -- the Steinbeck Green Salad or Steinbeck Ice Tea (a mix of tea, lemonade and raspberry) -- and the walls are decorated with family photographs. In a basement gift shop is the headboard from the bed on which Steinbeck was born, and in a locked bookcase, first editions of several of his works.
 As a native son with a discerning eye and a nose for news, Steinbeck became privy to many of Salinas's darkest secrets. By sharing them with the world in books like ''East of Eden,'' he was seen by many here to have violated an unspoken trust. His writing was particularly unpopular among the well-to-do, like the big agricultural interests that built their wealth on the backs of fieldworkers, the unsung heroes of Steinbeck's world.
 ''Salinas was never a pretty town,'' Steinbeck wrote in 1955 in the magazine Holiday. ''It took a darkness from the swamps. The high gray fog hung over it and the ceaseless wind blew up the valley, cold and with a kind of desolate monotony. The mountains on both sides of the valley were beautiful, but Salinas was not and we knew it. Perhaps that is why a kind of violent assertiveness, an energy like the compensation for sin grew up in the town.''
 Salinas is now bigger (population 150,000) and still unsightly. Some of its farmland has been planted with strip malls and a Wal-Mart. The cemetery where Steinbeck is buried, the serene-sounding Garden of Memories that figures in ''East of Eden,'' is on a noisy thoroughfare with a thrift shop and auto-parts store across the street. A yellow Denny's sign blots the horizon in the tailpipe haze beyond the graves.
 There are still remnants of the Salinas that pulled copies of Steinbeck's Pulitzer Prize-winning book about the Depression, ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' from the library and burned them. At least one grower still refuses to donate to the Steinbeck Center because of lingering hard feelings. But more and more, Salinas sees itself as a grown-up town that has chosen to honor Steinbeck, the Nobel Prize winner for literature in 1962, with a multimillion-dollar monument.
 ''Each generation has mellowed,'' said Mr. Mills, the grower, who is president of the center's board. ''Most recognize this was something in the past. We realized, too, that just as times change, conditions change. Some of the things Steinbeck wrote about, we very well deserved to rethink. Some others, he has taken some poetic license.''
 Even so, there are still efforts to balance Steinbeck's influence more than three decades after his death. The center's new agricultural wing has been characterized in news accounts as a concession to the valley's farming interests, though Mr. Mills said that was not true. Though housed in the Steinbeck Center, the exhibits are not about the author or his works. Their content was determined after the museum convened focus groups of growers, agricultural businesses and field workers.
 ''It has received good comments from most people,'' Mr. Mills said.
 The interactive displays trace the valley's agricultural boom, which took off with the valley's irrigation in the 1890's, and allow visitors to vote with a bar-code scanner for their favorite vegetable (on a recent day, iceberg lettuce was slightly ahead of spinach and cauliflower).
 Still, agriculture in the Salinas Valley remains a sensitive subject. A committee has been set up by the center to consider complaints and suggestions. When growers grumbled that quotations in the displays identified them by name but did not do the same for field hands, the committee added the names of the field hands.
 Ms. Shillinglaw, the Steinbeck scholar, said that in some ways the social dynamic dominated by agricultural interests in the Salinas Valley has remained frozen in time. When she lectures about Steinbeck and the valley, Ms. Shillinglaw said, she makes certain to read from his account in 1955 of the social pecking order in ''Always Something to Do in Salinas.''
 ''Sugar People might never have got any place socially if lettuce had not become the green gold of the Valley,'' he wrote in Holiday magazine. ''Now we had a new set of upstarts: Lettuce People. Sugar People joined Cattle People in looking down their noses. These Lettuce People had Carrot People to look down on and these in turn felt odd about associating with Cauliflower People.''
 A few years earlier, when Steinbeck wrote ''East of Eden,'' he drew upon the biblical story of Cain and Abel to explain some of the darkness of his hometown. If he were alive today, Steinbeck might turn to the New Testament to help tell his own story. There, in Matthew, an adult Jesus returned home as a prophet, only to face an audience that ''took offense at him.''
 ''But Jesus said to them, 'Only in his hometown and in his own house is a prophet without honor.''' 

If you go
 The National Steinbeck Center, 1 Main Street, Salinas, Calif., (831) 796-3833, www.steinbeck.org; is open daily 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; general admission $10.95. The annual Steinbeck Festival, (831) 775-4721, will be held at the center Aug. 5 to 8 and has two themes: ''The Politics of Steinbeck'' and ''Steinbeck and the Environment.'' Tickets are $75. Literary bus tours to Monterey and other nearby sites cost $60 extra last year.
 John Steinbeck's grave is about two miles from the National Steinbeck Center at Garden of Memories Memorial Park, 768 Abbott Street, Salinas, (831) 422-6417. It is open daily 8 a.m. to a half hour after dusk. Steinbeck is buried in the plot of his grandparents, Samuel and Elizabeth Hamilton; follow the metal Steinbeck arrow on the cemetery road. 

Getting There
 By car, the trip from San Francisco takes about two and a half hours. Take 101 South to the Main Street exit in Salinas, continue north on Main Street and follow signs. Parking in the municipal lot across the street is free with a two-hour maximum. 
 By Amtrak, (800) 872-7245 or tickets.amtrak.com, the Coast Starlight from Emeryville (just across the bridge to Oakland) departs at 8:20 a.m. and arrives in Salinas at 11:48 a.m. The return leaves Salinas at 6:36 p.m. and arrives in Emeryville at 10:02 p.m. Round-trip adult fare is about $42.
 Greyhound, greyhound.com, has a bus that leaves San Francisco at 6 a.m. and arrives in Salinas at 10:05 a.m. A return bus leaves Salinas at 4:45 p.m. and arrives in San Francisco at 9:05 p.m., with another leaving 7:05 p.m., arriving 10 p.m. Round-trip fare is about $40. The train station and bus terminal are in downtown Salinas, within walking distance of the Steinbeck Center. 

Restaurants
 One Main Street Cafe, (831) 775-4738, www.restauranteur.com/onemain, is in the National Steinbeck Center building and serves California cuisine and Monterey County wine. Most menu items from $7 to $10. Open daily from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
 The Steinbeck House and Restaurant, 132 Central Avenue, (831) 424-2735, infopoint.com/mry/orgs/steinbeck, is a short walk from the museum. Open Monday through Saturday from 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Reservations recommended. A meal from the fixed-price menu, with beverage and tax, is $11.50 a person. Dessert is $4 extra. DEAN E. MURPHY


GRAPHIC: Photos: A stretch of the San Juan Grade Road, just outside Salinas, looks much as it did in Steinbeck's day.
 Farm near Salinas in Spreckels is former site of a sugar factory where Steinbeck and his father worked. Broccoli pickers in Spreckels. National Steinbeck Center. The Steinbeck House. (Photographs by William Mercer McLeod for The New York Times)Map of California highlighting Salinas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); CITIES (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CALENDARS (69%); FILM (69%) Travel and Vacations; Books and Literature

PERSON: John (1902-68) Steinbeck; Dean Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Salinas (Calif) ; California

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



395 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Kicking Over the Chessboard

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
At first, I thought I'd write a column that just ripped President Bush for declaring that the United States -- after decades of neutrality -- has decided to oppose the right of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel as part of any final peace settlement. Why is the president dragging America into the middle of this most sensitive Israeli-Palestinian issue? You're telling me that just because Ariel Sharon has to persuade the right-wing lunatics in his cabinet to undo the lunatic settlement mess that Mr. Sharon himself created, America has to pay for it with its own standing in the Arab world?
 And while I was at it, I also thought I'd write that it is an abomination for Mr. Bush to say that Palestinians had to recognize ''the new realities on the ground'' in the West Bank -- the massive Israeli settlement blocks -- without even mentioning the fact that those ''new realities'' were built in defiance of stated U.S. policy and they have been just devastating to Palestinian civilians, who've seen their lands confiscated, olive groves uprooted and community fragmented. 
 But then I thought I also had to write to the Arab leaders wailing over the Bush statements and ask them a simple question: Where have you been? Saudi Arabia's crown prince comes up with one peace plan, one time, for one day. That was it. There's been no follow-up -- not a single imaginative, or even pedestrian, Saudi, Arab or Palestinian initiative to sell this peace plan to the Israeli people. And what did the Palestinians think? That years of insane suicide bombing of Israelis wouldn't drive Israel to act unilaterally?
 But after I got all these prospective columns off my chest, I decided what I really wanted to say was this: I'm fed up with the Middle East, or more accurately, I'm fed up with the stalemate in the Middle East. All it has produced is death, destruction and endless ''he hit me first'' debates on cable television. Arabs, Israelis, Americans -- everyone is sick of it.
 So now President Bush has stepped in and thrown the whole frozen Middle East chessboard up in the air. I don't like his style, but it's done. The status quo was no better. So, frankly, now I'm only interested in three things:
 First, will Mr. Sharon win the backing of his right-wing coalition for his Gaza withdrawal plan -- which has set off the biggest ideological split in the Jewish right since Camp David? If Mr. Sharon really does split his party and manages to withdraw all Israeli settlements and forces from Gaza, there will only be a far right in Israel and a far left, and a huge center -- which is what stable, sane politics requires. That would be a sea change in Israeli politics. Israelis will prove to themselves and to the Arabs that they can, under the right conditions, break the grip of the settlers. The Arabs will never again be able to say: ''Why should we do anything? Israel will never leave the settlements anyway.'' Moreover, Israel will very likely have to form a national unity government -- of Labor and Likud -- to pull this off, and only such a coalition could reach a negotiated final peace with the Palestinians.
 Second, will the Bush team make sure that Mr. Sharon, or his successor, fully withdraws from Gaza as promised? The Bush folks are experts at throwing up chessboards and then leaving the room, with the pieces bouncing all over the floor, and not doing the follow-up (see Iraq) because it interferes with their domestic political agenda. Having given up real U.S. negotiating assets to get Mr. Sharon to move, if Mr. Bush turns a blind eye to any Sharon stalling, U.S. interests will be badly damaged.
 Finally, if Mr. Sharon does pull out of Gaza, the Palestinians will have a chance to reposition themselves in the eyes of Israelis. They will have a chance to build a decent ministate of their own in Gaza that will prove to Israelis they can live in peace next to Israel. It will be hard and they will need help. Gaza is dirt poor. But if the Palestinians show they can build a decent state, it will do more to persuade Israelis to give up more of the West Bank, or swap land there for parts of Israel, than any Bush statements or Hamas terror. This is the best chance Palestinians have ever had to run their own house without the Israelis around. I wish them well, because if they do well, everything will be on the table.
 This is a real crisis for all parties. And as Paul Romer, the Stanford economist, remarked to me the other day about a different issue: ''A crisis is a terrible thing to waste.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (63%); REFUGEES (57%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



396 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14; Ideas & Trends

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: A Taxation Policy to Make John Stuart Mill Weep

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
THE income tax returns filed by President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney last week highlight in stark detail several new tax issues that subtly affect all Americans and that will become increasingly significant in the next few years.
 What's more, their returns demonstrate how far American tax policy has veered from two classic philosophical insights about how to finance government: ''horizontal equity'' and ''vertical equity.'' 
 Horizontal equity means that people with similar incomes and family structures pay similar amounts of tax. Vertical equity means those who have the greatest capacity to pay taxes bear the greatest burden. 
 The idea of basing taxes on the ability to pay dates to ancient Athens, Maureen B. Cavanaugh, a professor of tax law at Washington and Lee University, wrote recently. Athens was a tyranny when it had a flat tax, she wrote, but democracy flourished once taxes were based on one's ability to pay. Sylvia Nasar, a journalism professor at Columbia University who is writing a history of 20th-century economic philosophers, said that in the 18th and 19th centuries, ''Adam Smith, John Locke, James Mill and John Stuart Mill all supported the broad tax principles of horizontal equity, vertical equity, transparency and efficiency.'' 
 Today, Professor Cavanaugh said, the debate on tax policy largely ignores these principles. A look at the tax returns filed by Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney demonstrates that shift. Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, paid 27.7 percent of their total income in federal income taxes, about the same as the average taxpayer earning $500,000 to $1 million a year. Mr. Cheney and his wife, Lynne, however, paid 19 percent, far below the average of more than 29 percent for those in the $1 million to $2 million income group. 
 Even more striking, when their interest from tax-exempt bonds is added, the Cheneys paid just 12.7 percent of their total income in federal income taxes. The Cheneys paid such a low rate because in recent years Congress has cut tax rates -- more so on dividends than on wages. Horizontal equity is the critical concept that motivates Americans to comply with the tax laws, according to John O. Fox, who teaches tax policy at Mount Holyoke College. And as horizontal equity is reduced, he said, more cheating is encouraged. ''We have more and more cheating not because we are bad people, but because people have concluded that the system does not treat equals fairly,'' he said.
 Daniel J. Mitchell, a tax policy specialist at the Heritage Foundation, which favors lower taxes on investments, said recent changes in tax policy have increased horizontal inequity. He said classic tax theory is virtually absent from corporate tax policy, too, such as the administration's energy bills and proposals to change how exports are taxed. He said few tax bills are ''based on what politicians think is good policy.'' Rather, he said, ''it is all just special interests and who is whining the most.'' 
 The Bush and Cheney returns also show the collapse of vertical equity, under which one's tax burden rises with income and which the libertarian Cato Institute calls a ''bedrock American principle.'' 
 The Cheneys had more than twice the income of the Bushes, yet the amount of income tax they paid was about the same, a result of the growing trend by Congress to tax different sources of income differently. For example, to encourage more savings and investment, Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney persuaded Congress to lower the tax on most corporate dividends to 15 percent from as much as 39.6 percent when they took office. That decision saved Mr. Cheney and his wife almost $21,000 last year.
 Over all, the Cheneys saved $36,000 in taxes because of the Bush cuts, but two-thirds of that savings was wiped out by another measure: the Alternative Minimum Tax, a separate, parallel income tax law with its own rules on deductions and its own rates. 
 The A.M.T. was adopted in 1969 to make sure that all very high-earning Americans (those making more than $1 million today) pay some income tax. In this alternate calculation, people lose their exemptions for themselves and their dependents, and their deductions for state income and local property taxes. But even with the A.M.T., the Cheneys' tax burden was far below the average for people in their income group. 
 One thing's for sure: Judging from the Cheney and Bush returns, we've come a long way indeed from the classic tax policies of ancient Greece.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush
Vice President Cheney (Photographs by The Associated Press
 The New York Times)Chart: ''Higher Income, Lower Taxes''President Bush had less than half the income of Vice President Dick Cheney last year, yet both paid about the same amount in federal income taxes.President BushTOTAL INCOME: $822,126TOTAL INCOME TAX PAID: $227,490PERCENT PAID IN TAX: 27.7%Vice President CheneyTOTAL INCOME: $1,900,339TOTAL INCOME TAX PAID: $241,392PERCENT PAID IN TAX: 12.7%(Source by Tax returns posted at www.taxhistory.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); PHILOSOPHY (76%); CLASSICS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); FAMILY (73%); CORPORATE TAX (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ADAM SMITH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



397 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: In N.R.A. Speech, Cheney's Mark Is Kerry

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, April 17 

 BODY:
Before thousands of National Rifle Association members, Vice President Dick Cheney asserted on Saturday that Senator John Kerry, the likely Democratic nominee for president, would sharply restrict gun ownership and undermine the war on terrorism.
 At a time when some conservatives are expressing dismay with President Bush over gun rights, federal spending and the conduct of the war in Iraq, Mr. Cheney drew sharp contrasts between the president and Mr. Kerry on all three issues. 
 Mr. Cheney said Mr. Kerry, of Massachusetts, would increase taxes, waver on combating terrorism, nominate liberal federal judges and weaken the right to keep and bear arms. 
 ''Americans are coming to learn that the choice this fall is as dramatic as in any recent election,'' Mr. Cheney told N.R.A. members at the group's 133rd annual convention.
 The rifle association, with nearly 4 million members, is considered extremely effective at mobilizing conservatives. Though it has made no presidential endorsement, its support for Mr. Bush is considered a given.
 To the members' clear delight, Mr. Cheney focused heavily on gun issues, saying the Bush administration had worked to defend the rights of hunters, opened federal land to sportsmen and supported legislation to protect gun manufacturers from lawsuits.
 ''John Kerry's approach to the Second Amendment has been to regulate, regulate and then regulate some more,'' Mr. Cheney said. 
 Notably, Mr. Cheney did not mention the 1994 assault-weapons ban, which will expire in September. Mr. Bush has pledged to sign legislation renewing the ban, to the great dismay of the rifle association, which considers the law an infringement on the right to bear arms. But a renewal bill is unlikely to get through Congress this year, sparing Mr. Bush the difficult choice between keeping a promise or alienating his allies among gun owners. 
 Chad Clanton, a spokesman for Mr. Kerry's campaign, said the Bush administration was ''standing against major police organizations and breaking their promise'' by failing to push Congress to renew the assault-weapons ban.
 ''John Kerry used assault weapons in the military, so he understands that they're not meant for hunting dove or deer,'' Mr. Clanton said. 
 Mr. Cheney's remarks capped off a day of speeches by the rifle association's senior leadership fiercely criticizing Mr. Kerry and warmly praising Mr. Bush. 
 ''Don't you just love being able to say the word 'president' and not be ashamed by what comes after that?'' Kayne B. Robinson, president of the association, told members earlier in the day.
 Amid repeated references to patriotism and military service, the group's leaders asserted that Mr. Kerry, a decorated Vietnam veteran, did not understand the importance of waging war against terrorists in Iraq and elsewhere.
 ''I thank God they serve under a commander in chief who has vowed he will never beg for a permission slip from anybody to defend America,'' Sandra S. Froman, the group's first vice president, said, referring to American troops.
 The N.R.A.'s attacks on Mr. Kerry almost certainly presage its strategy for helping Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. That strategy focuses on tying Mr. Kerry to Democratic officials and liberal celebrities who have become symbols of everything the group and many of its most active members dislike about Washington. Those symbols include Senators Charles E. Schumer of New York, Dianne Feinstein of California and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, as well as former President Bill Clinton and the entertainer Rosie O'Donnell.
 During several speeches on Saturday, a photograph of Mr. Kerry giving a thumbs-up sign alongside Mr. Schumer, Ms. Feinstein and Mr. Kennedy flashed on huge screens flanking the stage. Christopher W. Cox, the N.R.A.'s chief lobbyist, called the group ''the who's who of the gun-haters hall of shame.''
 Mr. Cox also ridiculed Mr. Kerry's claims to be a hunter and Second Amendment supporter, saying, ''Don't be fooled, they are poseurs and fakes and they want your guns. And the biggest fraud of all? John Kerry.'' 
 Ms. Froman won loud applause when she warned that ''if John Kerry is elected president of the United States, we might well see Charles Schumer or Hillary Clinton or Janet Reno or former Solicitor General Seth Waxman wearing the black robes of the Supreme Court.''
 Democrats and gun-control advocates are hoping to drive a wedge between Mr. Bush and conservative gun owners by spotlighting Mr. Bush's support for renewing the assault-weapons ban.
 On Saturday, Tom Mauser, whose son, Daniel, was killed in the 1999 shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado, appeared outside the convention to call on Mr. Bush to support renewal of the ban.
 ''I would like to see what action plan he has'' to get the bill through Congress, said Mr. Mauser, who was wearing the sneakers his son was wearing when he died. ''He has to do more than just say he supports it.''
 But despite grumbling on the right about Mr. Bush, many people at the convention seemed solidly in his camp. Peter A. Tarvin, 57, of White Haven, Pa., said gun rights were more important to him this year than either the economy, which he considered strong, or Iraq.
 ''Just about everyone here is for Bush, because Kerry is so bad on guns,'' said Mr. Tarvin, who recently retired from his job as a counselor at a state juvenile corrections facility.
 Underlying the group's attack on Mr. Kerry is what many Democratic strategists consider a more subtle and insidious strategy: to cast the senator from Massachusetts as out of touch with the lives, concerns and beliefs of working-class Americans. 
 On Saturday, for instance, Mr. Robinson, the group's president, said a Kerry administration would support restrictions on hunting that favored the elite. 
 David Sweet, who directed the 2002 campaign of Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat who defeated a Republican supported by the rifle association, said many hunters and gun owners believed that Northeastern Democrats had ''an urban, sophisticated mentality that sneers at their way of life.''
 Mr. Kerry's challenge in states like Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin where the association is strong will be to appeal to blue-collar, socially conservative Democrats and swing voters who own guns but are also worried about their jobs and the war in Iraq.
 ''People have several membership cards in their wallets, and they are motivated by any number of impulses that come from those memberships,'' Mr. Sweet said. ''There are not a huge number of people for whom the gun issue is so dominant that all of the rest fades into oblivion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney accepted a rifle yesterday from Kayne B. Robinson, right, the president of the National Rifle Association, and Wayne LaPierre, the group's executive vice president, in Pittsburgh. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (94%); CONSERVATISM (90%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); MAMMALS (75%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LITIGATION (70%); JUDGES (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); POLICE FORCES (61%); TAX INCREASES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



398 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: A Change in Destination, A Sense of Direction

BYLINE: By SEAN DONAHUE; As told to Julie Dunn.

 BODY:
I'VE spent the last 20 years learning the details of the airline industry, but my first experience with air travel was rather embarrassing. One of my older brothers was a Marine stationed in Kingsville, Tex., and when I was about 10 years old, I flew down there to visit him and his family.
 I was flying on Braniff Airlines as an unaccompanied minor and I had to connect in Dallas. I went down to the posted gate to get on my connecting flight and saw that they were already boarding the airplane, so I got right on. Unfortunately, my departure was the next flight from the gate, and I boarded the wrong airplane. 
 We were pushing away from the gate when I heard the flight attendant make the announcement, ''Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to your flight to Atlanta.'' 
 I stood up, and the flight attendant came over to me. She said, ''Son, you need to sit down.'' 
 And I replied, ''I'm on the wrong airplane.''
 They stopped the push-back from the gate, put down the rear stairs and had someone come out to meet me and walk me back up into the waiting room. I was the youngest of five children, and my older siblings found great pleasure -- and still do -- in this story of misadventure. 
 My dad was in the Navy for more than 25 years, so my brothers and sisters and I moved around quite a bit. I went through the whole Naval Academy application process, but I ultimately chose not to go into the service. 
 My dad died right before I graduated from Boston College, so I decided to go back to the Worcester, Mass., area to be with my mother and live with her for a little while. It was 1983, and the economy was not in very good shape. I had lots of resumes out there. I needed a job and I heard that U.P.S. was hiring, so I went down and got a job loading trucks. 
 It was hard work, and it gave me the experience and appreciation -- especially after joining United -- of the challenges that our front-line employees meet every day. 
 I knew that I wanted to go into business. Somehow I was able to get an application to United in Chicago and was hired as an accounting clerk in 1984. It sounded pretty good, compared with loading trucks all day, so I took it. 
 In less than a year I became an auditor, which was my first management job. Since then I have had many field and headquarters leadership positions at United. 
 I think that there is something about the airline industry that gets in your blood. It hooks you. For me, it's the incredible competitiveness of the business. 
 When I first heard the name Ted for the airline, I was struck by how unique and distinct it was. It creates this personality -- a relaxed personality -- that personifies what we're trying to do, focusing on flying into leisure markets.
 Both of my parents had a tremendous influence on me: they had an amazing sense of dignity in how they treated me and my siblings and how they expected us to treat others. I think that has translated over to my management style: my No.1 focus is on communication. 
 My wife, Susan, and I have five children, ages 2 to 13. When we moved from Denver to Chicago last summer, it was our fifth family move in 10 years. I've found that kids are more adaptable than adults when it comes to moving. Our kids still see everything as an adventure. It's a good attitude to have, and an example of how kids can teach parents a few things. 

SEAN DONOHUE
Vice president of United Airlines in charge of Ted, the company's new low-fare service.

DATE OF BIRTH
PUB-DATE: April 11, 1961

HOMETOWN
Paxton, Mass.

FAVORITE TRAVEL DESTINATION
Chatham, Mass.

BEST MOVIE SEEN ON A PLANE
''Field of Dreams''


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (69%) Airlines and Airplanes; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; Ted (Airline)

PERSON: Sean Donohue; Julie Dunn

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) TEXAS, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



399 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3507 words

HEADLINE: Moving On: A Home Seller's Primer

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
SELLING a home is -- for the most part -- simpler than buying.
 All sellers have to do is get through the often emotionally evocative decision to leave their home, find an assuring broker (or not), choose a worthy buyer, sign a legally sound pre-sale contract and get through the eventual closing.
 Then move, if they haven't already.
 And all that, real estate veterans say, is the less-complicated side of the equation.
 ''On the seller's side, fewer decisions need to be made,'' said Michael Schill, head of New York University Law School's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy. ''Basically, what the seller wants after the closing is a certified check and never to hear from the buyer again.'' 
 And to be free of worries, the seller must, essentially, do two things. ''First, tell the truth so that you don't get sued for fraud, which could lead to a recision of the contract; you are required by law to be honest,'' Professor Schill said. ''Second, do everything necessary to get to the closing smoothly.''
 The devil, of course, is in the details.

To 'FSBO' or Not to 'FSBO'
 Your first decision is whether to sell the house yourself or to hire a broker. Selling by yourself is called ''FSBO'' (pronounced fizbo) -- for sale by owner. ''If you go FSBO,'' said Robert Campbell, a real estate finance professor at Hofstra University, ''the primary benefit is that you don't pay a broker's fee, and that's substantial'' -- traditionally 6 percent of the sale price.
 But there are disadvantages to selling by yourself:
 Pricing uncertainty. Brokers provide price information from recent ''comparable'' sales. When you sell the house yourself, it is possible to ask for too much, discouraging buyers, or too little, cheating yourself.
 Time constraints. ''FSBO is time-consuming,'' Dr. Campbell said. ''You have to write advertisements, show the house, answer inquiries, screen people.''
 Legal pitfalls. There are legal requirements that brokers usually handle, so you will probably need to hire a lawyer to do more than represent you at the closing. While various books, Web sites and services are available to guide you through a FSBO transaction, selling a home is a complex legal process.
 Contract agreements have to be written. These include contingencies -- conditions under which either party can back out of the deal. Determining mortgage availability is one such contingency, because it dictates the ability of most buyers to close by a certain date. Another that can be crucial is under what circumstances defects found in the house -- most buyers hire an inspector to check the property for defects -- allow a potential buyer to back out of a deal. 
 New York and Connecticut, but not New Jersey, have laws requiring sellers to disclose property defects they know about. ''It's another form the broker usually does for you,'' Dr. Campbell said. 
 Matchmaking inefficiency. Brokers know how to screen for those buyers most likely to want the property, and be able to afford it. Bad screening can lead to serious wastes of time. In a FSBO deal, said Chris Mayer, director of the Milstein Center for Real Estate at Columbia University, sellers run the risk that they will ''only get buyers who are looking for a discount.'' Many buyers only want to look at houses through a broker because they don't have time to search for FSBO houses. ''And those are the best buyers,'' Dr. Mayer said, ''less patient, often from out of town, and, therefore, ready to pay higher prices.''
 Despite these considerations, between 10 and 15 percent of home sales nationally are conducted on a FSBO basis, according to the National Association of Realtors. Some are sold to family members, others to friends or neighbors. In other cases, given the run-up in housing prices in recent decades, homeowners have made the calculation that saving a commission -- a typical 6 percent commission on a $500,000 home would be $30,000 -- is worth the effort.
 Robert Irwin, author of ''Sell Your Home and Save Thousands on the Commission,'' (Wiley, 2004), pointed out that there are Web sites, including owners.com and fsbo.com, ''where, rather than buyers taking your phone number from the sign out front, they can go to your Web site and see photos of your home, a complete description, a list of comparable sales and the schools and crime statistics for the area.''
 ''So when they contact you,'' Mr. Wiley said, ''they are primed to see your house.''

Going for a Broker
 There are a number of guideposts to follow in selecting a broker: 
 Find brokerage firms with experience in your neighborhood. ''In the suburbs, the simplest way is to look at 'for sale' signs,'' said Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal company. ''For apartments, look at Web presence and the classifieds.''
 Interview at least three brokers. Get recommendations from friends. Follow your intuition. ''People must feel comfortable with their broker,'' said Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group. If you have a bad feeling, don't sign an agreement.
 The broker's agreement is not etched in stone. ''Most brokers want the standard 6 percent commission, but it's entirely negotiable,'' Professor Schill at N.Y.U. said, ''particularly if the broker is also representing you in buying a new home. In that case, he may get two commissions and you certainly can bargain for a lower commission.''
 Dr. Campbell at Hofstra said: ''You can play brokers against one another. Higher-priced houses, let's say more than $700,000, you should be able to negotiate a reduced broker's fee. In Manhattan, that doesn't even sound like a lot, but the same principle applies. Lower-priced houses, it's more difficult.''
 The term of the agreement should be long enough to allow the broker to make a sufficient sales effort, but not too long so you will be locked into a bad relationship. Three to six months is usual.
 The agreement should specify a minimum level of effort by the broker; how many advertisements, open houses.
 Be aware that the bottom line for you and your broker may diverge. For example, in a deal in which there are two brokerage concerns -- one representing the buyer and another the seller -- the agency representing you typically gets half of that 6 percent commission, with the individual agent receiving half of that. ''Brokers' incentives are for a quick sale, as opposed to getting the last, best dollar on your house,'' Dr. Mayer at Columbia said. ''So you need to be involved in pricing decisions, because you get 94 cents of the last dollar, and the selling broker only keeps 1 1/2 cents.''
 The rest of the usual 6 percent commission goes to the brokerage firm and buyer's broker. ''If the seller's broker waits and gets you another $10,000,'' Dr. Mayer said, ''they collect only $150 of the $10,000. So their incentive is to do things quickly. That's why a seller needs to be involved in the pricing decision.''
 When using a broker, make sure the house is included in the local multiple-listing service for maximum exposure and to encourage multiple bids.
 After going on the market, wait at least through the first weekend before accepting an offer to make sure a number of buyers have seen your house.

The Right Price
 Act like a buyer and look at homes for sale in your community. That is what actual buyers are going to do when deciding to bid on your home.
 Ask at least three brokerage firms to provide market analyses of your neighborhood, including recent comparable sales.
 In the suburbs, drive by every property listed in the broker's analysis. You want a sense of where your property falls within the current competition.
 As a benchmark, compare prices per square foot. ''If a listing has a higher price per square foot than another of similar size,'' said Mr. Miller, the appraiser, ''the question is: Why?'' Is it the home's condition? A three-bedroom or a four-bedroom? The size and usability of the lot? A quiet street? A higher floor; better view? In a co-op or condo, are the maintenance charges higher (that would bring the value down)?
 Check how long a ''comparable'' has been on the market; more than three months means it's probably overpriced. And make sure the comparables are recent. ''The price may have been agreed upon six or nine months earlier,'' Dr. Mayer said. ''Since prices have risen across the country by 5 to 10 percent in the last year, using old sale prices can cause people to underprice their houses.''
 After finding a comfort level on your home's range of value, consider how much above that value your list price should be. The further your list price from your comfortable selling value, the longer it will likely take to sell. ''If you objectively think the house is worth $500,000 and decide to list at $750,000, rather than $550,000,'' Mr. Miller said, ''you increase your chances of selling at less than $500,000 because the listing will get stale and brokers will view you as a difficult seller and won't show the property as much.''
 Be wary of brokers overestimating your home's price to lure you into hiring them, or underestimating the value to make a quick sale.
 Taking a less conventional tack, Ms. Liebman at the Corcoran Group suggested: ''Intentionally underprice. If you create a buying frenzy, you will have the property that everybody will hate to lose.''
 If you do not get an offer in the first two weeks, lower the price. 
 Sometimes the first buyer is the best buyer. ''They've been waiting, rushed over to see your house and are prepared to act quickly,'' Ms. Liebman said.
 Most sellers are also imminent buyers. ''In many markets today there is very little inventory,'' Dr. Mayer pointed out. ''So just worrying about getting the highest price should be traded off against the difficulty of finding a house once you sell.''

First Impression Counts
 ''When you advertise an apartment, if you say it's in mint condition, mean it,'' Ms. Liebman said. ''Buyers feel misled when the condition of the home is exaggerated.''
 Curb appeal is important. ''I've seen houses for sale where the grass is over your ankles and the weeds are higher than your knees,'' Dr. Campbell said. ''Hire a gardener.''
 ''Probably the best investment you can make,'' said Thomas McAteer, managing director of Cooper Square Realty in Manhattan, ''is $100 or so on a real good cleaning.''
 Paint helps.
 Kitchens and bathrooms have a major impact on price. Clean the tiles and, if necessary, regrout them. If your countertop is chipped, a new countertop can make a kitchen seem renovated without spending a lot.
 It is a common mistake, however, to make extensive improvements -- new kitchens, bathrooms, wall-to-wall carpeting. Deals have been scotched because of improvements and decor not to the buyer's taste. ''Realtors aren't feng shui specialists, nor should they be,'' Mr. McAteer said.
 The roof must not leak! ''Internal stains are deadly to the deal,'' Dr. Campbell said. ''It doesn't matter if you've fixed the leak, you don't want the stain there. It raises doubts.''
 Anything moldy or smelly can kill the deal. ''Stop smoking,'' Professor Schill said -- at least for a while before the showings. ''Some buyers will smell it and no longer want to purchase.''
 Make sure pet smells are eliminated. ''Baking some cookies before a showing is not a bad idea,'' Mr. McAteer said.
 In a smaller home, oversized furniture crowds out buyers. Well-placed mirrors can create a sense of spaciousness.
 ''Declutter your home, if there is such a word,'' Ms. Liebman said, and depersonalize it. ''That great picture your 4-year-old brought home from school may be cute, but take it down,'' she said. ''Buyers like to visualize their own lives in the home.''
 Declutter, yes, but never show an empty house; it tells buyers you are desperate.

Hire Your Own Inspector
 Most sellers leave it to the buyer to hire an inspector to find defects. Colin Albert, president of Aces Home Inspection Services in Brooklyn and an official of the American Society of Home Inspectors, suggests that the seller hire an inspector and then eliminate defects before going on the market. ''The more items you correct, the fewer the buyer's inspector will find,'' Mr. Albert said. ''You may have an old boiler. So when a buyer's inspector comes and questions the boiler's life expectancy, you can show a document that you had it checked and it doesn't have to be replaced right now.''
 Once the seller has the house inspected, the price can take into account the cost of repairs.
 The cost of an inspection for an average house should be $300 to $600, Mr. Albert said. ''If it's a mansion, could be $1,000.''

The Right Buyer
 These days, with inventory in the New York area quite constricted, the seller is usually in a commanding position. ''So putting a property on the market means your issues are less related to attracting buyers than with maximizing the price,'' said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Pompton Plains, N.J., ''and, of course, making the transaction go as smoothly as possible.''
 Besides the highest price, your greatest concern should be whether the buyer is assured of financing. You may choose to only look at bids from buyers who have been preapproved; those who have started the mortgage process and received a preapproval letter from a lender establishing how large a loan they will get.
 Make sure that you get a significant deposit; this will give the buyer an incentive to go through with the deal. A typical deposit is 10 percent of the sale price.
 Because you are likely in the driver's seat, you can discern which offer carries the least number of contingencies and which bidder is most likely to mesh with your move-out strategy.
 You will have to decide how to deal with repairs and improvements. ''For example, a buyer makes a bid with a preapproval, but the bid is contingent on the home passing certain inspections: whether the septic system is operating, the roof leaks,'' Mr. Gumbinger said. ''You may say, 'It's as is and that's it.' Or you may negotiate whether you are going to pay for repairs, or 'I'll take a bit off the price,' or 'I'm not going to do that; do you want the deal or not?' ''

The Board Hurdle
 The process becomes more complicated for a co-op or a condo.
 ''There is an inviolate rule of thumb for co-op and condo board application packages,'' said Stuart M. Saft, chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. ''Boards will not review a buyer's application or interview the candidate until all of the application's requirements are met, all its questions answered.''
 Because of substantial price increases in recent years, co-op boards have become very concerned about the creditworthiness of potential buyers and, especially, of anyone financing a substantial part of the purchase price. Make sure the numbers add up.
 Since it can take two to three months for buyers to organize their packages and be interviewed by the board, sellers might want to accept a slightly lower price from someone not financing the deal.
 Many condo boards now require buyer screening as stringent as co-op boards, so condo sellers should also be concerned about the creditworthiness of potential buyers.
 The contract of sale should contain a representation that the buyer has been advised of the board's requirements and rules. For instance, if the building does not allow dogs or, perhaps, subletting, the contract should spell that out.
 Obtain a copy of the last financial statement of the co-op or condo corporation, and if there is anything unusual about it, or about the building's operations, inform the buyer.
 Your broker should examine the buyer's application carefully before it is submitted to the board. ''Everyone complains about how long the process takes,'' Mr. Saft said, ''but more time is lost because of incomplete applications than anything else.''
 Among the ironclad rules for applications: Make sure the buyer really knows the people listed as references. Approvals have been denied for even smaller fabrications. And make sure the application does not contain a photograph of the applicants, which could lead to a suit for discrimination if the buyer is rejected.
 In order to close, a co-op seller must return the apartment's original stock certificate and proprietary lease to the corporation. If the apartment has been financed, the seller's lender will likely have the stock certificate and lease in its possession.

Legal Considerations
 Sellers as well as buyers need a lawyer. ''A lawyer will make sure the contract is binding, and will protect you from doing things that could get you into trouble down the road,'' Professor Schill said. 
 The first thing your lawyer will do is confirm that you are the true owner. ''It may be an elderly brother and sister who lived in the house or the co-op, and one passes on,'' said Roger Pierro Jr., a real estate lawyer in Queens. ''It may be that the survivor did not inherit the deceased owner's share.'' If it's a house or a condo, your lawyer will want to see the deed; for a co-op, you must produce the stock certificate and proprietary lease.
 Your lawyer must determine the status of your debt on the property. If your mortgage has been paid off, you must produce the Satisfaction of Mortgage, a legal document received from your lender. It must be recorded by the buyer's title company before or at the closing. For a co-op loan, the document is called a UCC-3 Termination Statement.
 If you are selling a house, your lawyer will ask if you've made structural modifications: extensions, a garage conversion. That is because the certificate of occupancy on file with your locality must accurately reflect the house's current structure. Otherwise, closing may be delayed while you are forced to hire an architect to legalize the modification and update the certificate of occupancy. ''The C. of O. should have been updated at the time of the modification,'' Mr. Pierro said. ''If it wasn't, doing it now can be costly when you're looking to sell.''
 Similar problems can arise if you don't have certificates for structural work, like plumbing or rewiring, registered with the local government.
 If you make a mistake in the contract of sale with respect to a representation about the property and the buyer finds out about the mistake before closing and the mistake is material -- meaning significant -- the buyer will not be required to close the deal.
 Stipulate in the contract that the buyer cannot receive damages against you as a remedy in case, for some unforeseen reason, you are unable to convey the property. ''The only remedy that the buyer should be able to get,'' Professor Schill said, ''is a return of the deposit or a ruling by a court that the seller must go through with the transaction because he breached the contract.''
 Pay attention to the tax consequences of the sale. ''Typically,'' Professor Schill said, ''a couple who have used a home as their primary residence for two of the previous five years is able to exclude from their income taxes $500,000 of capital gains. So it is important to make sure before you sell your property that you meet these requirements: two years and primary residence.''

The Moving Do-si-do
 Spring is traditionally considered the best time to sell, in part because the closing can occur in time for the new school year. ''The worst times to try and sell are summer and around Christmas, when people have other things on their minds,'' Professor Schill said.
 You need an exit strategy. Are you buying another home? Moving out of state? The contract must be timed to your moving plan. Normally, deals take 60 to 90 days from contract to closing. With co-ops it may take longer, because of the board approval.
 With inventory limited these days, Dr. Mayer said, ''Sellers might be better served to think about buying first, realizing that selling in this market is sometimes easier than buying.'' 
 Dr. Campbell pointed out, however, ''If you buy before you sell, you may have to pay interest on two mortgages for some period of time; or, you may have difficulty getting the mortgage on your new house because the old house hasn't been sold yet.'' You can protect yourself by getting a bridge loan, usually from a commercial bank -- that is, a loan that ends as soon as the long-term mortgage on your new home begins.
 Sometimes the ability to meet the move-in needs of your buyer can make or break the deal.
 On the other hand, if you ask the person selling you your new house to wait until you close on your old house, it may be more difficult to negotiate with that seller. 
 A note of caution from Dr. Campbell: ''It is dangerous to allow the buyer to move into your house prior to closing. If for any reason the closing doesn't happen, this fellow becomes the camel who sticks his head in the tent and says, 'Can I just get my head out of the rain?' And before you know it, it's his neck, his shoulders and the camel is filling up the tent while you're sleeping in the rain.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawing by Shane McGowan)(pg. 1)
 (Illustrations by Shane McGowan)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) Housing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



400 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Globalization Without Riots

BYLINE: By Daniel W. Drezner. 
Daniel W. Drezner, an assistant professor of political science at the University of Chicago, is a monthly columnist for The New Republic Online and the author of ''The Sanctions Paradox.''

 BODY:

IN DEFENSE OF GLOBALIZATION
By Jagdish Bhagwati.
308 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $28.
 GLOBALIZATION impoverishes developing countries while undercutting middle-class living standards in the United States. The reduction of trade barriers encourages the exploitation of child labor, fosters a race to the bottom in environmental standards, tears women in third-world nations away from their families, homogenizes disparate indigenous cultures and strips the gears of democracy in favor of rapacious multinational corporations. It also causes cancer in puppies. 
 To be fair, no one makes the last claim. However, the rest of the paragraph represents the standard litany of charges levied against economic globalization. These accusations have inspired throngs of activists to make large puppets and protest in the streets of Seattle, Genoa, Cancun and other ports of call. 
 Economics professors disagree with almost all this, but the savvy ones recognize that they've been losing the rhetorical battle. Public opinion polls repeatedly show Americans to be wary about globalization. The problem is not that economists are starting to doubt their own arguments -- the problem is that the rest of society neither understands nor believes them. Between statistical evidence showing that trade is good for the economy and tangible anecdotes of sweatshops and job losses, most citizens trust the anecdotes. 
 There is a need for someone to step into the breach and defend globalization using the language of the average Joe, as opposed to the calculus of a Nobel Prize-winning Joe. If anyone can rise to this challenge, it should be Jagdish Bhagwati. An esteemed international economist, Bhagwati is a university professor at Columbia and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. He has advised the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. Born in India, educated in Britain and now an American citizen, he can claim to understand all points of view. He has won multiple prizes for excellence in economic writing. And when it comes to the merits of international trade and investment, Bhagwati's belief in the absolute rightness of his position rivals the most ardent of protesters: ''If reducing poverty by using economic analysis to accelerate growth and therewith pull people up into gainful employment and dignified sustenance is not a compelling moral imperative, what is?''
 Two questions arise from a book like ''In Defense of Globalization.'' Will it serve as a useful tool for those defending the merits of globalization? Will it persuade some of the opponents that they are wrong? The answers are mostly yes and mostly no.
 Bhagwati assembles persuasive evidence that reducing barriers to trade and investment generates social as well as economic benefits. Underlying all of these good outcomes is a simple two-step hypothesis: globalization increases economic growth in participating countries; growth reduces poverty and its concomitant social ills. 
 The meat of the book is the series of chapters devoted to proving this hypothesis. Globalization can take the credit for helping to reduce the gender gap in wages in the United States. Why? Competition from abroad forced American firms to shed their discriminatory practices of old in order to maximize economic efficiency. Vietnam's increased access to the global marketplace reduced the number of children working in rice paddies, because workers took the higher incomes from exports to send their children to schools. Trade barriers limiting the number of Japanese automobiles worsened America's environment, because companies like Toyota and Honda chose to export bigger cars with bigger profit margins; now more gas guzzlers and fewer fuel-economy models are on America's roads.
 While the virtue of free markets becomes readily apparent as the book progresses, Bhagwati is more confusing about the government's role in a globalizing economy. For example, on Page 56, he recalls with approval the Indian government's decision to install agricultural price supports to prevent a collapse in food prices during the green revolution. Two pages later, policy makers are urged to ensure that ''bureaucrats are replaced by markets wherever possible.'' On the very next page, Bhagwati sees ''great virtue in quasi-paternalistic moves'' by the government when it comes to the poor. At no point does he spell out the precise role of the state. 
 Critics of globalization will find a few things to admire in Bhagwati's outlook. He limits his defense of globalization to trade, direct investment and migration. The book's short chapter on capital markets echoes many of the concerns of globalization's critics. Bhagwati forcefully denounces ''the Wall Street-Treasury Complex'' that cajoled developing countries into eliminating capital controls. His charming cosmopolitanism will also allay the fears of critics convinced that economists are incapable of appreciating non-economic values. Literary references flow from the pages, from Lady Murasaki to King Lear to Woody Allen.
 Bhagwati says at the outset that he wants to engage the ''mainstream'' elements of the anti-globalization movement. However, he never really grapples with mainstream critics like Dani Rodrik, who argues that economic growth leads to economic openness and not vice versa. There are also missteps in tone that will alienate some. At one point, Bhagwati dismisses a section of the environmental movement as a bunch of ''old folks turning to protect turtles and ospreys.'' At another point, he argues that migrant women receive psychic benefits from working in a liberated environment and providing for their families back home. His evidence? The experiences of his maid.
 The book's fatal flaw, however, is its off-kilter relationship with the business cycle. During boom times, antiglobalizers score political points by stoking fears of cultural debasement and environmental degradation. During leaner years, naked self-interest becomes the salient concern: in the current economic climate, American opponents of globalization talk less about its effect on the developing world and more about the offshore outsourcing of jobs. Bhagwati could undoubtedly rebut this argument, but unfortunately he devotes only a single page to it. Readers looking for answers to the jobs question should check out Douglas Irwin's engaging ''Free Trade Under Fire.'' But tuck away ''In Defense of Globalization'' -- it will serve as a useful guide for better times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); RIOTS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CHILD LABOR (73%); LITERATURE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); DOGS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); CANCER (56%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Daniel W Drezner; Jagdish Bhagwati

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

 
