

201 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Peace With Japan, Before It's Too Late

BYLINE: By Cyrus R. Vance and William H. Gleysteen Jr.; Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State in the Carter Administration, and William H. Gleysteen Jr. are chairman and president, respectively, of the Japan Society.

 BODY:
Are we going to risk letting resentment and emotion, rather than a commonsense understanding of our national interest, govern our critically important relationship with Japan?
The key to combatting this dangerous tide of opinion is the White House, which has the necessary authority to explain a complicated situation to a confused American people. And the need for public understanding remains urgent, despite the recent, welcome agreements to reduce Japanese trade barriers. 
For most of the postwar period, American appreciation of the economic and security benefits of our Japan ties offset the inescapable strains of a major alliance. These strains included our complaints that Japan was taking unfair advantage of the international trading system. This view prevailed even as Japan rose to great power status.
Now, however, that pragmatism is being undermined by ignorance and emotional recrimination. Japan's economic prowess, combined with a fading Soviet threat, has generated a new sense of rivalry and anxiety.
Too many politicians, publicists and others have exacerbated this situation by playing on popular anxieties, arousing fear and anger. The Japanese have reacted with mounting nationalism and frustration. And, most unfortunately, American leaders have done little to counteract these growing tensions and explain the stakes to the American people.
If the world's two greatest economic powers allow this emotional infection to lead to real hostility, both will be the poorer and far less secure.
If Japan adopts a more independent ''Gaullist'' course, it could destablize the regional equilibrium only recently achieved in East Asia. Other countries would become far more uncomfortable about Japanese power and would, more than ever, want us as a buffering force in the Pacific. We, however, would find it difficult, if not impossible, to maintain a forward presence in the Pacific without easy access to Japanese bases.
If naked rivalries suppressed cooperation, the economic consequences would jeopardize the prosperity of both nations. If Americans clearly recognized these dangers, few would want to start down the slippery slope of protectionism and open antagonism in our dealings with Japan.
It is foolish to criticize the Japanese for not being more like ourselves. But one can properly fault them for failing to change policies adopted in earlier years for survival and development. These policies are now as unfair to Japanese consumers as they are to other nations.
Obviously, Japan could help check the growing antagonism by accelerating its movement toward a less regulated society, and taking on substantially greater global responsibilities. Presumably, progress in this direction will require some pressure from abroad. But the decisive factor must be Japanese awareness that the change is in their national interest. And, as we can see from Japanese reaction to the new trade pact, this awareness is developing.
What must be done on this side of the Pacific? First, we must blunt our anti-Japanese rhetoric. Second, Americans need to be told in the most authoritative - and attention-grabbing - way about the full range of interests that are at stake.
Third, we have to put our own house in order. This would include steps to radically reduce our Federal budget deficit, increase our savings rate and lengthen the time horizon against which we measure business success.
There will be occasions when we should use well-timed, well-aimed pressure to accelerate Japan's progress toward liberalization. But in no instance should we resort to the protectionism we wish Japan and others to shed.
If we manage our relations with foresight and restraint, we will find a new glue for the U.S.-Japan alliance. In an era in which economic ties will define the common fate, this relationship must be made to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: VANCE, CYRUS R; GLYSTEEN, WILLIAM H JR



202 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4629 words

HEADLINE: Is It True What He Says About Dixie?

BYLINE: By Peter Applebome: Peter Applebome is chief of The Times's Atlanta bureau.

 BODY:
''GOOD GOD,'' SAID LEWIS GRIZZARD AS HIS 225-pound co-star waddled into a television studio near downtown Atlanta. ''It's a real hog. This is the most bizarre thing I've ever seen. Where'd y'all get that hog? Do hogs bite?'' No answer, certainly none from the year-old sow, which apparently found a pile of graham crackers on a desk where Grizzard is typing more interesting than one of the South's best-read writers. Grizzard watched the hog dine for a moment and then asked in a deep Rhett Butler baritone: ''Didn't we meet recently in a Holiday Inn lounge in Tupelo?''
Grizzard's public image may be the quintessential good old boy, but in real life this is about as country as he gets. A half hour earlier he had snuffed out the last of his Marlboros and climbed into a white stretch limousine donated to the Atlanta Chapter of the American Heart Association for the seven-minute ride from his home in the trendy Ansley Park section to the studio owned by Georgia Power. There he knocked out a quick public-service commercial for the heart association - ''Seven years ago, I had major heart surgery replacing one of my heart valves with one from the first cousin of my good old buddy Porky here'' - left the hog with its keeper and climbed back into the limousine in plenty of time for his daily golf game at the Ansley Golf Club. 
Such is life for Grizzard, most celebrated for his best-selling books of folksy humor and nostalgia, with trademark Grizzardian titles like ''Elvis Is Dead and I Don't Feel So Good Myself'' and ''Don't Bend Over in the Garden, Granny, You Know Them Taters Got Eyes.'' Grizzard, a columnist for The Atlanta Journal and Constitution, may not be a superstar in the Boston-Washington corridor, but he's his own conglomerate elsewhere, with syndication in 450 cities, a hectic round of speaking engagements at $20,000 a pop, and a best-selling book a year (with a total of almost five million copies now in print). To manage it all, he has his own company, Grizzard Enterprises Inc.
In a region where everyone has rural roots, Grizzard (it rhymes with lard, not wizard) may be the South's most conspicuous throwback. He has made a career out of standing up for God and country, Momma and Daddy and biscuits and gravy while at the same time ruminating over his own life, which has been something of a country music cliche of hurtin', hangovers and heartbreak. Still, if Grizzard sings the song of the South, he lives the life of the Sun Belt, a place that knows where it was better than it knows where it is, where issues of race and sex roles are still shadowed by ancient archetypes and where a poor, self-proclaimed ''smart-assed white boy'' in Gucci loafers with no socks from Moreland, Ga., can get everything he dreamed of in life and still end up confused, alienated and alone. Rather than the stories he tells or the columns he writes, the best window on the South may be his own life story - the sad ballad of Lewis Grizzard.
''I THINK I'VE GOT MY PEOPLE HERE,'' Grizzard invariably says when speaking to groups in the South. On the previous evening at a Holiday Inn near the banks of the Chattahoochee River in Atlanta his people were the Homebuilders Association of Memphis in town for the National Homebuilders Association meeting. Grizzard's syndication is increasingly outside the South and he has given speeches in places as alien as the ritzy hotel Pierre in New York. But most of his audiences are like this one, all-white Southern conventions or business groups. They're people who live in cities but remember growing up in small towns or cities that felt like them. They're people who share the same icons of college football coaches and country music stars, who roar when Grizzard talks about being held prisoner of war in Chicago for three years, who figure the joke's benign if he asks, ''How many Baptists we got here? How many Methodists? How many gays?''
Sometimes, rarely, the humor touches on race, the omnipresent dividing line in the new South as much as the old. No one in the room needs to ask whom he's referring to, for instance, when he talks about muggers and the Atlanta subway system.
''We've got lots of people from the North in Atlanta,'' he says. ''We didn't need a subway, but we built one anyway to make them feel at home. The other problem was that the muggers kind of all got stuck downtown, but we put in this subway so the muggers could go all over the metropolitan area and rob people. I really miss Andy Young, our Mayor who just went out of office. Andy ran Atlanta not from a municipal approach but a global approach. The big one he never, pulled off: get this, he was trying to get nonstop air service from Hartsfield Airport to Lagos, Nigeria, so those of us who buzzed off to Lagos for a weekend wouldn't have to change planes at Chattanooga.''
But more often, the subject is the fading culture of the South. At 43, Grizzard has the lanky look of a high-school athlete settling into middle age, who dresses each day like a golfer on his way to the first tee, in knit shirts reading ''The Crosby'' or ''Melrose,'' a country club and resort. But his thick glasses and bushy mustache give him a more serious appearance than his public persona might suggest. In private, he can be awkward and insular. He usually avoids a questioner's gaze, and he times his public appearances to minimize encounters with his fans.
But on stage, he seems blissfully at ease and in control. Grizzard is a marvelous storyteller, who knows how to use every second of silence and every twist and turn of his Georgia drawl to perfect effect.
''Yankees think we talk funny,'' he says. ''God talks like we do. Yankees don't understand that the Southern way of talking is a language of nuance. What we can do in the South is we can take a word and change it just a little bit and make it mean something altogether different. Take the word 'naked.' It means you ain't got no clothes on. Sometimes 'naked' just won't do. You need something a little bit stronger. So we change the word just a little bit. We say 'nekkid.' 'Naked' means you ain't got no clothes on. 'Nekkid' means you ain't got no clothes on and you're up to something. 'Darlene was nekkid.' [Laughter.] Sounds like you know Darlene.''
Most of the listeners know the stories by heart - Grizzard has been using much of the same material since he began appearing before audiences in the late 70's. They've heard about the service station offering free sex with a fill-up. They've heard about his heart surgery and read about it in his book ''They Tore Out My Heart and Stomped That Sucker Flat.'' And enough people have heard his most famous story, the tale of Bubba and Earl and Uga, the beloved but indiscreet white English bulldog mascot of the University of Georgia, that it's hard for Grizzard to go out in public whether in Atlanta or Eretria, Greece, without some voice booming out in the most exaggerated South Georgia drawl, ''That dog would biiiiiite youuuuuuuuu.'' That line is to Lewis Grizzard what ''Whole Lotta Love'' is to Led Zeppelin.
Like a Borscht Belt comedian's, Grizzard's stories serve as more than entertainment - they evoke a shared culture. To his admirers, Grizzard is one of the last, great unvarnished voices of the South, harking back to simpler values and easier times. ''I have all his books,'' says Bobbi Gillis, who is married to a Memphis home builder. ''I love the story he tells about people who come to the South. He says, 'They eat our food, they marry our women, and then they want to tell us how they did things back in Cleveland.' One of his greatest lines ever is, 'Tell you what folks, Delta's ready when you are.' ''
To his detractors, Grizzard is something quite different. Pat Conroy, the Southern novelist who wrote ''The Great Santini,'' lambastes Grizzard mercilessly. Conroy once wrote him saying, ''Your South is the one I loathe, Lewis.'' Dudley Clendinen, the former features editor of The Journal and Constitution, while acknowledging Grizzard's popularity, says: ''I find him odious. I resent the narrow lens Lewis puts on being Southern. The South has both a more interesting past and a more interesting future than you could guess by reading Lewis Grizzard. I think he's racist, sexist, homophobic and xenophobic, suspicious of anything that's different from himself.''
IF LEWIS GRIZZARD has any secrets left, it's hard to imagine what they could be. Local newspaper columnists end up being ravenous scavengers, scrounging for any morsel from their life to turn into column fodder, then needing another one a day later. ''Someone once said writing a daily column is like being married to a nymphomaniac,'' Grizzard says. ''The first two weeks is fun.''
But Grizzard has taken confessional literature as far as it can go. His readers know everything about his alcoholic father, who died in 1970, and his long-suffering mother, who died last year. They know the gory details of his two heart operations and his three divorces. In fact, Grizzard's whole career has become a marvel of recycling. He reuses most of the material in his column, in his books - 11 so far - and then recycles most of the same stuff in his audiotapes (four) and videotapes (two) of his concerts, so dedicated Grizzardologists can come upon the same joke in at least four media. If they want a second opinion, there's always his third wife Kathy Grizzard Schmook's book, ''How to Tame a Wild Bore & Other Facts of Life With Lewis - The Semi-True Confessions of the Third Mrs. Grizzard.'' The Grizzard soap opera is so well known that for a while Atlanta's freeways were dotted with bumper stickers reading: ''Honk if You've Been Married to Lewis Grizzard.''
Grizzard was born in Fort Benning, Ga., in 1946, the only child of Army Lieut. Lewis Grizzard Sr. and Christine Grizzard. His father, who was decorated in World War II and Korea, was an alcoholic who left his family when his son was 6. A great storyteller and wit, who like his son had three unsuccessful marriages, Lewis Sr. spent his life going from job to job, amiably conning people out of money. Until his death, his relationship with his son was a heartbreaking tease in which he periodically popped into his life, raised his hopes and then had to be rescued by him from a drunken stupor in one or another seedy motel.
Grizzard is the kind of writer who scores better with readers than critics, and most of his books are so fluffy and ephemeral as to float away. But his book on his father, ''My Daddy Was a Pistol and I'm a Son of a Gun,'' despite the cheery title is a harrowing account of the ties that choke as well as bind, a George Jones crying song elevated to art. ''Don't hate me'' his father invariably said, upon blinking into consciousness after a long drunk, and Grizzard can neither hate him nor fully come to grips with what the relationship did to him. Most of his best friends voice fears that Grizzard's life is defined by a self-destructive need to emulate his father's virtues and vices.
He was raised by his mother and her relatives in Moreland, Ga., a small town about 45 miles southwest of Atlanta, which also gave the world the novelist Erskine Caldwell, best known for Depression-era novels about the South, like ''Tobacco Road.'' Smart, industrious and ambitious, Grizzard worked as sports editor of the local newspaper while attending the University of Georgia. The Atlanta Journal hired him right out of college, and he was made executive sports editor at the age of 23. He later became sports editor of The Chicago Sun-Times before returning to Atlanta to write a column.
The timing was perfect. Grizzard hated Chicago - ''It has two seasons. Winter and the Fourth of July.'' He was coming off divorce No. 2 and was burnt out by assorted unpleasantnesses there, including a successful discrimination suit against the paper filed by a black sportswriter who had been dismissed after being demoted by Grizzard. At the same time, Jimmy Carter had come to the White House and the mood of the times was ripe for a new Southern voice. Nothing if not a shrewd marketer, Grizzard churned out odes to beer joints, Georgia football, Southern women and his hometown, excoriated feminists and homosexuals and became an instant sensation.
Before long came books, records, wife No. 3, two heart surgeries, divorce No. 3 and more money than Grizzard ever expected to make in his life. He became, quite unconsciously, the dividing line between the mythic South of old and a more inclusive New South made possible by the economic and social gains of the past three decades - an icon to legions of dedicated fans, an embarrassment to some corporate types tired of the South's good-old-boy image, a reactionary mossback to blacks, feminists and liberals.
It all came to a boil when old and new collided during the tenure of Bill Kovach as editor of The Journal and Constitution; the former New York Times editor came to Atlanta in 1986 intent on turning The Journal and Constitution upside down and making it ''a world-class newspaper.'' Grizzard's buddies, including the paper's former editor, Jim Minter, who hired Grizzard three times and was as close to a father figure as he's had, were soon gone. Grizzard quit too, then quickly came back, but he always figured the new regime would have been just as happy to see him go, too. Kovach says he never tried to run Grizzard off, but when asked about Grizzard's column says: ''I don't like it. I don't believe in using the space in a newspaper to belittle people, especially those least able to represent their own interests.''
When Kovach himself was forced out, Grizzard reacted to the wailing of the Kovach partisans with an advertisement he considered running, saying: ''I think I can assure all our readers that The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta Constitution can survive the recent resignation of the tempestuous Mr. Kovach. In fact, we might even benefit from his departure, with apologies to those who enjoy reading exhaustive series on what's doing in Africa.''
The ad never ran, but copies circulated anyway, and there are those who have never forgiven him for it. In a widely published open letter to Grizzard, Pat Conroy wrote: ''Because I am too a redneck, I want to translate for all your readers and for the Cox chains what you meant by the line 'with apologies to those who enjoy reading exhaustive series on what's doing in Africa.' Let me translate this in our shared Southern vernacular. You wrote it in code but the translation is this: Atlanta doesn't care if niggers starve. It is the word, 'nigger,' Lewis, that subliminally disfigures your work and cheapens your worth as a man.''
Conroy has hacked away at Grizzard ever since like a fighter pumping hard, straight jabs at the head of an opponent sprawled on the ropes. A screenplay he's writing on the Kovach affair features a buffoonish good-old-boy character whose identity will be clear to anyone in Atlanta.
Grizzard, for whatever reason, has never hit back. ''I don't know why the guy hates me, I really don't,'' he says. ''To tell you the truth, I think he's a great writer. I love his fiction. I love 'The Great Santini.' I've read 'The Lords of Discipline.' But I'll tell you what. When a major American novelist has any sort of opinion about me it's pretty impressive. A lot of people go their whole lives without a brilliant American novelist even thinking about them.''
In a region where manners still mean at least as much as substance, Grizzard's aw-shucks, slightly sarcastic nonresponse probably plays better than Conroy's tirades. And Conroy is regarded as such a passionate, hyperbolic character that perhaps Grizzard doesn't worry about his salvos. But, for someone who's worked so hard to achieve so much, there's something sad in Grizzard's all-purpose response to criticism: I get paid to turn 'em out and get a reaction, folks. Don't take it too seriously. ''Hey, I never said I was any good,'' he says. ''I just write the books and people buy 'em.''
MY MOTHER MADE no real distinction in being Southern and her belief in life after death. There was a seamlessness to her life and she appeared to be a woman of absolutes. She thought that being Southern was a state of unearned grace and proof of a loving God in the universe.''
The sentences sound like something Lewis Grizzard could have written, but he didn't. Pat Conroy did. They speak to the ferocious pull that the South has on those who call it home. For Conroy it plays out in raging torrents of pain, love and conflict, pitting old attitudes on race, sex and class against changing times. It's the conflict that has made the South the source of so much of the nation's great literature. Grizzard is selling something much simpler but perhaps even more popular - the South as nostalgia, a modern version of the mythology as old as the Civil War, about the South as God's happy, homogeneous chosen land. His fans often sound like Conroy's mother. ''I know God blessed me by allowing me to be born in the South,'' a fan wrote him in January. ''When I was exiled from the South, your books and tapes kept me close to the land that I love.''
Grizzard does not write solely about the South. In fact, as his column has become more widely circulated, it has lost much of its regional character. But the South symbolizes the small-town values he champions, and the South still defines who he is and how he's perceived. In truth, Grizzard is not nearly so simple as either his fans or detractors would like. If he's conservative on most things, he's harder to typecast on others: he's adamantly for abortion rights and gun control, for instance. But, for the most part he enjoys playing professional throwback, inhabiting a world where homosexuals are ''fruit flies,'' women are either goddesses or ''sweathogs,'' and blacks are, for the most part, invisible.
One of his columns last year found Grizzard at a University of Mississippi-University of Georgia football game in Oxford, Miss. The band played ''Dixie.'' The Mississippi partisans waved Confederate flags. The people in front of him were drinking Jim Beam. Grizzard was in heaven: ''All of this prompted my friend Bugar Seely, a veteran Georgia fan, to say, 'They still wave the flag, still sing ''Dixie,'' they can still pray and they can still bring liquor into the game. No wonder they beat us.''
GRIZZARD'S SHTICK IS that he's the ultimate confused man, trying to live by old values in a changing world. In fact, his life and values have little to do with the life he pines for. But the confusion he represents taps into something powerful and pervasive, particularly in the South, and it puts Grizzard atop a cultural fault line.
In the Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, Charles Reagan Wilson, a University of Mississippi professor, wrote: ''Grizzard embodies the traditional Southern white male's confrontation with modern America.'' In an interview Wilson added: ''The South is in a transition period in terms of culture where the older values and symbols are still around in conflict with new symbols and new ways. There's a struggle going on for the South's public culture and Grizzard is right at the center of it.''
To Grizzard and his partisans, there's something dispiriting in the degree to which the turf he inhabits is charged territory. In some ways, it's a fair gripe. At a time when any stray comment deemed racially insensitive can cost someone a career, that sensitivity can be magnified when the writer is a white Southerner extolling the South.
''What I want to know is what is it about the goddamn South?'' Grizzard asks. ''No one says, so and so, a famous Iowa writer. But it's always 'The South.' Hey, we got paved roads. In Atlanta, it so happens, a lot of the politicians are black. But if I write a negative column, it's so easy to say, here's a white guy writing ugly about the black mayor. Must be the white guy's a racist.'' Grizzard's former editor Jim Minter adds: ''Unless any Southerner in the newspaper business is willing to be totally contrite about being a Southerner, many people are going to find traces of racism in what he writes, and what he does and perhaps what he is.''
Others might say Grizzard draws so much flak not because he writes about the South, but because his vision of the South seems to exclude so much. Kovach, for example, said he found it galling that a paper that once spoke to the best instincts of the South through the columns of former editor Ralph McGill, now has Grizzard as its dominant voice. But whatever the case, the South Grizzard celebrates is easier to find in his books than his life.
GRIZZARD AND I ARE in Moreland, his hometown, driving around in my car like two invisible spies. Grizzard's tour is mostly more recycling of stories from his books - the baseball field where he unsuccessfully tried to woo wife No. 1 back one depressing Christmas Eve after she left him, the barn where he and Mike Murphy shot rats with .22's, the vacant lot where Steve Smith's truck stop used to be.
Except for the Delta Air Lines pilots buying up surrounding land for rambling new brick houses, Moreland is now pretty much what it was then - a patch of red clay and simple frame buildings from which the fortunate escaped as soon as they got the chance. The only thing new in town is the cameo picture of his mother on her grave. He sees the picture for the first time when we visit the town cemetery. It brings to mind his Christmas column last year, which recounted memorable Christmases, many of them depressing, and concluded: ''This Christmas all I could give her was a new headstone for her grave. Hers is the sweetest memory I will ever know.''
Nostalgia for the rural South is a grand Southern tradition. The intellectuals who made up the Vanderbilt Agrarians in the 30's promulgated their famous manifesto, ''I'll Take My Stand,'' in defense of the South's rural traditions. But the country folks have been steadily migrating to the city ever since. Similarly, Grizzard is no more likely to move back to Moreland than he is to Moscow.
''I used to have to drag him down there,'' says Kathy Schmook, his third wife. ''Going to Moreland was like going to his death.'' In fact, one of the odd things about Southern nostalgia is that despite its pull, it is nostalgia for a time few people really want to go back to. Jimmy Breslin may yearn for a simpler, safer, less yuppified, more democratic New York. Mike Royko would prefer an earlier Chicago of vibrant Polish and Italian ethnic enclaves. The homogeneity that so many Southerners pine for is gone, but in most way these are the good old days.
Grizzard may write about the old days in Moreland, but he lives like the quintessential arriviste. He resides in Atlanta's trendiest in-town neighborhood and hangs out at one of its oldest all-white country clubs. He may say on one of his tapes that he's a patriot who wouldn't buy a car from any country we've fought a war against or write in ''Elvis Is Dead'' that ''the only materials we really need to import from foreign countries, in my way of thinking, are porno movies.'' But, in fact, the car in his driveway is a Mercedes, he wears Italian shoes and drinks Stolichnaya vodka.
He may rhapsodize about the old churchgoing South of stable families and simple values but, as he says, he doesn't darken the doors of churches very often. After three bad marriages he seems disinclined to try a fourth, and everyone who knows him worries that he's smoking and drinking himself into a slow death. With no family left, Grizzard's biggest passion is University of Georgia football and the tailgate parties and camaraderie that go along with it. Even his column over time has become flattened out, far less likely to offend than it once did.
''Lewis is the loneliest man in the world,'' says Kathy Schmook. ''He has always felt he would die like his father, young and penniless. Lewis is now constant shtick, and there's very little of the man I knew left. I don't know what Lewis represents anymore. He's like a great big plastic fast-food box that sells really well, but I don't know what's inside it anymore.''
IT DIDN'T BREAK AN inch. It stayed dead straight,'' Grizzard grimaces as he watches his putt sail past the hole at the Cotton Creek Golf Club in Gulf Shores, Ala. His columns may dwell on the mythical Holiday Inn in Fort Deposit, Ala., but this is Grizzard's South, the bleached-out new South of beachfront condominiums and pine-studded suburbs, where the woman setting up his speech proudly announces to his manager, Tony Privett, ''There is not one black resident of Gulf Shores, Ala.'' In many ways, life in places like this or Hilton Head Island or the white suburbs ringing Atlanta or Birmingham is a new and improved version of the mythical South of old, richer, just as friendly, just as laid back and just as segregated by custom and economics as it once was by law.
Every day the weather permits, whether in Atlanta or on the road, you can find Grizzard on the golf course, with his black and red Georgia Bulldogs golf bag with the matching Bulldog head covers. After today's round, it's back to the pink stucco Perdido Beach Hilton, and then on to his night's speaking engagement.
It is only after he finishes at around 9:30 P.M. that the real fun starts. Grizzard hates to fly, and he can get home to Atlanta from most places in the South on an overnight drive, so he likes to travel by bus - specifically, the 40-foot long, customized Silver Eagle with the 318 Detroit engine, the humongous steer horns above the driver's seat, the televisions and VCR's and tape decks, the shag carpet, and the mirror with the two big-eyed cocker spaniels that he rents from Sonny Williams of Fairview, Tenn. Sonny, who owns a truckstop there, has driven country music stars like Alabama and rock stars like Bon Jovi. With Sonny's buddy Elvis, also known as Danny Ramm, today acting as copilot, Grizzard gets the same treatment.
Like a lot of people who are paid to be funny, Grizzard seldom seems to be having much fun. But on the bus, he comes to life. He starts chain smoking Marlboros and knocking back screwdrivers, one after another from a half-gallon bottle of Stolichnaya. Soon Ricky Van Shelton is belting out Merle Haggard's ''Workin' Man Blues'' over the tape deck, and suddenly the gritty South Grizzard evokes in his columns beckons. There's talk of getting off the damn interstates and going to one-stop-light towns and country stores or canoeing in middle-of-nowhere mountain streams. ''If this ain't better than flying, there's something wrong with the world,'' Grizzard says.
By 1:30 A.M., the bus has become the spirit of the South - not the antiseptic country club South Grizzard lives in but the rough-edged real thing. Sonny's smiling as he bounces up and down in the driver's seat. Grizzard has taken the co-pilot's seat from Elvis. ''Goddam! We're at Montgomery? This is great! You just tell Sonny when you want to get there, and he'll get you there. Take it on down the road, Sonny! Take it on down the road! At this rate, we'll be home by 4:30.'' That's as far as the fantasy goes. Grizzard is asleep in the back an hour later when the blower shaft that gets air to the engine cuts off and the bus breaks down on I-85 outside Auburn, Ala., about 120 miles from home. At about 6:30, a bleary-eyed, Grizzard and associates stumble into a cab his manager has rounded up. They stop for breakfast at McDonald's and with Grizzard sitting in the front seat next to the driver, they head silently back to the comforts of Ansley Park. From the front seat comes a final comment.
''Show business is my life,'' says Lewis Grizzard.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lewis Grizzard, left, making an American Heart Association commercial.(Rick Ward/Stephen Rase) (pg. 26); Right, at a friend's house in Newnan, Ga., near his hometown, Moreland. (Bill Eppridge) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: HOLIDAY INN BAHRAIN (56%); HOLIDAY INN HARARE (56%); HOLIDAY INN MUSCAT (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (82%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (82%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WRITERS (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); BESTSELLERS (68%); GOLF (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (52%); 

PERSON: GRIZZARD, LEWIS; APPLEBOME, PETER



203 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2477 words

HEADLINE: The Death of a Child

BYLINE: By ROBERT COLES; Robert Coles is a child psychiatrist who teaches at Harvard University. His next book, ''The Spiritual Life of Children,'' will appear this fall.

 BODY:

WHAT LISA KNEW
The Truth and Lies of the Steinberg Case.
By Joyce Johnson.
303 pp. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. $22.95.
In early November 1987, a 6-year-old girl, Lisa Steinberg, brought to a New York City hospital comatose, was pronounced dead - a victim of severe and repeated beatings. In the melancholy and wrenching ''What Lisa Knew,'' Joyce Johnson, a novelist and a contributing editor to Vanity Fair, has tried hard and long to understand what such a brief life was like - those few years of agony that culminated in the violent death of a child of supposed privilege: the ostensible mother, Hedda Nussbaum, a one-time editor of children's books at Random House, the ostensible father, Joel Steinberg, a well-off lawyer. 
Not that Lisa's death was unique. Ms. Johnson has given much time and energy in an effort to understand what happened to this one child, but reminds us, right off, that ''in 1987, an estimated four thousand children died in America as a direct result of abuse.'' A number of these children, born to humble and impoverished parents, go to their graves with no attendant notice or outcry from the news media. In comparison, we are reminded, ''Lisa was one of those children to whom we assign high value.'' Such ''value'' prompted close and extended journalistic attention when the story broke, and later, when the father stood trial as responsible for the death. (He was ultimately convicted of first-degree manslaughter and is now in jail.) Not much detective work was necessary at the hospital before Lisa's experience could be surmised: ''Elizabeth Steinberg's small body was a map of pain,'' Ms. Johnson writes. ''The marks were different colors, different vintages. Red, purple, yellowish-brown. It seemed as if she had been hit just about everywhere - on her arms and the calves of her legs, on her chest, her buttocks. One of the biggest bruises was in the center of her lower back - not a place where a child would be likely to injure herself. There were fresh scratches on her elbows, as if someone had grabbed her there. Her parents had just let her go dirty - her feet and ankles had a crust of black grime. The hair and the feet shocked everyone almost as much as the bruises.'' As for the mother, she had ''two black eyes, a split lip, a nose that no longer had a bridge.''
Understandably, the world (and later, the criminal justice system) turned on Joel Steinberg. He became known, soon enough, for what he was - a crook, a liar, an accomplice of underworld figures, a spiteful, tricky, brutish man whose professional life is yet another reminder that virtue is not by any means a prerequisite for financial success. Many began to call him a monster, someone whose life in one way or another warrants setting him apart. Yet Ms. Johnson keeps reminding us that this man lived gregariously in a comfortable Manhattan world, had many business associates and friends, who had plenty of opportunities to take his moral measure - and see what he was doing to the woman with whom he was living, to his daughter - but who raised no voice of concern, let alone alarm.
The author does her best to try to understand this man, as well as the woman he kept beating for years, even as she refused to leave him -remained stubbornly, even fiercely, attached to him. If Mr. Steinberg inhabited a legal and business demimonde, Ms. Nussbaum achieved a substantial professional respectability. Mr. Steinberg's mean, manipulative, manic manner, his crude personality, his upstart ways and half-crazy palaver came as no surprise to his shyster companions and associates and earned him no reprimands or warnings. But Ms. Nussbaum's fellow workers at Random House became increasingly worried and then horrified by her bruised and battered appearance. The more her women friends tried to advise or warn or help her, the more she angrily detached herself from them and the cultured, refined world in which they had all, as colleagues, hitherto worked. Eventually, Ms. Nussbaum lost her job, became Mr. Steinberg's full-time, constant object of derision and assault. She also became a drug addict - a sometime zombie, people began to notice. Cocaine was her obsession, and she had no trouble stashing away large amounts of it for her daily consumption.
These two not very attractive or stable unmarried individuals refused to settle for their own harsh, coarse madness. They had no problem in illegally procuring two children - Lisa, whose death made her so-called parents all too well known, and Mitchell, who was 17 months old in 1987 when the public side of this tragedy first began to unfold. Mr. Steinberg was a criminal lawyer in several senses of that phrase. He defended many a lowlife, and he knew how to cut corners, to put it mildly. He and Ms. Nussbaum manipulated the New York State adoption laws to secure a girl and a boy from two frightened young single women. Of help, in that regard, was a network of unscrupulous doctor friends - another riffraff professional world Mr. Steinberg knew well. In the months that preceded Lisa's death, she and her baby brother - living in New York City's Greenwich Village, on West 10th Street, in the very building Mark Twain once claimed as a residence - had become part of what was supposed to be an upper-middle class family, but was in fact a living arrangement run amok: a man jabbing and punching at a woman; she, in turn, all drugged up day and night; a little girl increasingly knocked about; a baby boy ignored, left to lie for hours in a urine-soaked crib.
Inevitably, a substantial part of this book is given over to exercises in speculative psychology. The author does her best with that discipline's overwrought, portentous phrases (a secular lingua franca of our time) as she introduces us to Mr. Steinberg's family and Ms. Nussbaum's. But the most careful psychiatric scrutiny doesn't quite explain how these two college-educated, well-to-do, late-20th-century Americans turned into such a debased, callous, utterly self-preoccupied couple, to whom the lives of two young children meant next to nothing.
No question, Mr. Steinberg's mother comes across as shallow, egotistical, stingy; Ms. Nussbaum's parents as no paragons of emotional strength. But so what? The world is full of vulnerable people who have had difficult childhoods, who have known all sorts of psychological strain and pain - and who have not turned into malign emotional partners or parents. The author, a sensitive and skilled novelist whose work has received quite favorable critical attention, knows to call it quits at a certain point. ''In a way,'' she points out, ''it would be a relief to learn that Hedda Nussbaum had been beaten by her parents, that her relationship with her father had been incestuous. That would both explain her and distance her from those of us who consider ourselves more normal than she is. In fact, it appears she was not an abused child at all, that her upbringing was truly as average and uneventful as she said it was.'' Not that child abuse or family violence are exclusively a matter of ''upbringing'' come home to roost. Social and economic upheaval or vulnerability prompt an increase in such violence, as emergency ward physicians and pediatricians living in certain neighborhoods or entire cities that have been hit hard by rising unemployment well know. Family violence also increases in response to alcohol and drug abuse - and those problems also rise in frequency among jobless people.
Needless to say, partisans of psychological determinism will insist on some formulation that accounts for the behavior of Mr. Steinberg and Ms. Nussbaum, both individually and together. The author tries her best to address this issue: quotes at length, for example, from Rollo May's ''Love and Will,'' even imagines Ms. Nussbaum, ''with her appetite for literature on sex and psychology,'' reading that 1969 book, and offers us such startling and original cultural profundities from it as this: ''It is always true that love and will become more difficult in a transitional age, and ours is an era of radical transition. The old myths and symbols by which we oriented ourselves are gone, anxiety is rampant; we cling to each other and try to persuade ourselves that what we feel is love.'' As for Ms. Nussbaum's way of getting on with her so-called lover, Rollo May has this dramatic pronouncement for his readers: ''When inward life dries up, when feeling decreases and apathy increases, when one cannot affect or even genuinely touch another person, violence flares up as a daimonic necessity for contact, a mad drive forcing touch in the most direct way possible. This is one aspect of the well-known relationship between sexual feelings and crimes of violence: to inflict pain and torture at least proves that one can affect somebody.''
Such a way of seeing things was quite familiar to Ms. Nussbaum, whether she had read Rollo May's book or not. She knew phrases such as ''sadomasochistic relationship,'' or ''folie a deux'' - phrases that one day would fill the air as people tried to put a fast fix on her psychological life. She had been in and out of ''treatment'' for years before she took up with Mr. Steinberg, was seeing a therapist three times a week as she cemented that fateful friendship. She had visited doctors alone and in ''group sessions.'' She had ''tried Biofeedback.'' She had been ''Rolfed for a few months.'' She had gone to ''Dr. Albert Ellis, a best-selling authority on sexual responsiveness.'' The author dryly observes that ''none of these therapies succeeded in liberating the real Hedda.'' Meanwhile, naturally, Mr. Steinberg talked with no one about himself - only looked for people whom (at work or at play) he might con.
As this patient, shrewd storyteller worked her way through what she calls the ''blanks and blind alleys'' of an attempted biographical study, the weight of psychological banality obviously became oppressive and stifling to her. One by one certain words start making a credible appearance in her text - ''choice,'' ''will,'' ''evil,'' ''responsibility.'' At such moments, as with George Eliot's authorial voice in ''Middlemarch,'' Ms. Johnson becomes the aroused chronicler of a moral tale. At what point is any of us responsible for our actions - no matter the trials and tribulations (evident or hidden) of our early or later years? (Hitler was a victim of what we now call child abuse - he and his mother constantly tyrannized by an alcoholic man whose raging fists surely marked a stepson for life.) Put differently, when ought psychological analysis to give way to moral judgment? The author makes clear, finally, her own position.
It is not hard, Ms. Johnson knows, for many of us to condemn Mr. Steinberg, his putatively unhappy childhood notwithstanding. Ms. Nussbaum, in contrast, received from many enormous sympathy. She was quickly wrapped in a thick psychiatric cloak, was flanked by her lawyer and doctor, neither of them especially camera-shy, and was not put on trial, even though many of the jurors felt that she was partially responsible for Lisa Steinberg's death (she testified that after the child was severely injured, she smoked cocaine with Mr. Steinberg for hours before calling 911). By the end of the book, the author is also quite willing to emphasize the significant ''role'' that Ms. Nussbaum ''played in Lisa Steinberg's life and death.'' In an interesting afterthought, Ms. Johnson declares: ''Clearly she has no understanding of what she did that was so wrong - of how she sinned, if one dares to use such an old-fashioned term.''
Some will charge the author with blaming the victim, but she argues, in her own way, for a kind of old-fashioned respect for Hedda Nussbaum that is moral rather than psychological - her right to be judged ethically rather than exculpated through the dreary, trite phrases of contemporary psychology, a dubious ally, anyway, because what can be given (the masochist as a one-time hurt child) can also be taken away (the masochist as a sly, insistent, clinging aggressor, feeding off and provoking constantly a tormentor's rage.) Ms. Johnson is neither a Diana Trilling nor an Elizabeth Hardwick, either of whom, I suspect, would have written with more sardonic bite and would have risked a grander impatience with the cast of seedy, self-absorbed, nasty characters who populate this story - their actions, finally, the essence of ''what Lisa knew'' in her all too brief life. But Ms. Johnson, constrained by factuality as Henry James was not when he gave us ''What Maisie Knew,'' does eventually develop a fine narrative momentum. Her novelist's eye for detail and character portrayal serve her and us well - nowhere better than during those moments when she reminds us that some New Yorkers possessed both moral intuition and moral energy in response to their fleeting encounters with young Lisa. Even though the girl's teachers apparently (and incredibly) noticed nothing alarming in their day-to-day work with her, hours and hours of presumably close contact, a frightened neighbor repeatedly contacted city agencies and warned of the violence she suspected was taking place in the Steinberg apartment. And a New York State Thruway toll collector (unlike those teachers, she had no fancy university degrees, had taken no courses in something called educational psychology), on the basis of a second's look at Lisa and her father in a car, immediately suspected that the child was in grave jeopardy and got the highway police called - in vain, though. The lawyer Joel Steinberg, ever the wily, truculent blabbermouth, knew well how to keep secure guard over his particular realm - until death carried off one of its young inhabitants.
 
THE WOMAN WASN'T CRYING
 [Officer] Botte . . . went back to the apartment . . . to pick up a sample of the food the child was said to have choked on. The woman didn't want to let them in. . . . Botte had never seen a woman who looked as bad as she did. Hedda Nussbaum resembled a pugilist who had just lost the last of a long series of fights. . . . She limped away . . . hunched over like an old person. She wasn't crying. Botte had evidently had the sentimental expectation that she would be crying over the little girl. It was like Steinberg all over again: the emotions didn't match up with the situation.
Hedda Nussbaum took a plastic container out of the refrigerator and handed it to Botte. There were soggy vegetables inside. They're rotten, Botte thought to himself. The woman asked . . . a weird thing. ''Do you have to take all the vegetables?'' Botte went to check out the baby. . . . He was tethered to [a playpen] by a rope. . . . The baby, the mat he was sitting on, the dirty sweatshirt he was wearing, had an awful stench of urine.
 
From ''What Lisa Knew.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lisa Steinberg at the public elementary school she attended in lower Manhattan, 1987 (c 1987 Stuart M. Gross) (pg. 1); Hedda Nussbaum holds 6-month-old Lias Steinberg in 1981. (Associated Press/Charels Wenzelberg) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHAT LISA KNEW (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; CHILD ABUSE; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS CHILDREN (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONTUSIONS (89%); DEATHS (77%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); MANSLAUGHTER (77%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); FACIAL INJURIES (65%); 

PERSON: COLES, ROBERT (DR); JOHNSON, JOYCE; STEINBERG, LISA JOYCE JOHNSON (84%); ELIZABETH STEINBERG (80%); HEDDA NUSSBAUM (79%); 



204 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: DOES THE CREDIT GO TO THE KREMLIN?

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ULAM; Adam B. Ulam is a professor of history and political science at Harvard University and director of Harvard's Russian Research Center.

 BODY:

THE AWAKENING OF THE SOVIET UNION
By Geoffrey Hosking.
182 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $19.95.
A student of contemporary affairs might understandably groan at the appearance of yet another volume on perestroika. The pace of change in the Soviet Union has been so rapid that most books on the subject are liable to be outdated by the time they get into print. Moreover, the majority of them are quite repetitive, with the writers belaboring the question of whether Mikhail S. Gorbachev will survive politically. (It is somewhat ironic that while the Soviet people are learning to view their leaders soberly, there has emerged in the West a cult of personality around the man whose name is usually assumed to be synonymous with the Kremlin's ''new thinking.'') ''The Awakening of the Soviet Union'' by Geoffrey Hosking, a professor of Russian history at the University of London, is a welcome departure from these excessively Gorbachev-dominated discussions. All in all, this thin volume is among the most enlightening and informative accounts of what has already been one of the most amazing peaceful revolutions in modern times. 
Perestroika, in Mr. Hosking's opinion, was not invented by one man. Nor has it been triggered exclusively by the economic and political crisis of the Soviet state in the mid-1980's. In many ways, Mr. Hosking argues, the impulse to reform sprang from forces generated by the growing maturity of Soviet society. Just as that society had thrown off the shackles of despotism imposed by Stalin, so it is now struggling to free itself from the bureaucratic oligarchy preserved by his successors. But to assess realistically the chances of the present reforms, Mr. Hosking says, we ought to look beyond the day-to-day political games in the Kremlin and examine the country's past.
The author is quite hopeful on this point: ''Russians do not have a heritage of democracy as we understand that term. All the same, I do not believe they are condemned to eternal civic passivity. On the contrary, I believe that they have derived, from their past, traditions of political participation and mutual solidarity under pressure which are proving to be decisive elements in the new situation, and which are creating the makings of a civil society.''
More specifically Mr. Hosking invokes the example of the pre-Revolution peasant community (the mir) as a source of what he calls ''habits of community.'' These, he says, survived into the modern Russian and Soviet period, providing the people with a modicum of autonomy and privacy even under the autocratic and totalitarian regimes. The traditions of community manifested themselves in the workers' soviets (the grass-roots organs of self-government that erupted spontaneously during the revolutions of 1905 and 1917), as well as in the ''tightly knit circles'' of intelligentsia, which provided small havens of opposition, both in pre-World War I Russia and under Khrushchev and Brezhnev, to the omnipotent state.
Thus, even before the onset of perestroika ''a dim sense of loss of community was reawakening. . . . The preoccupation with human rights was the first sign of recovery.'' It is the strength of this tradition of communality, Mr. Hosking believes, that will largely determine whether Mr. Gorbachev and his colleagues will succeed in their grandiose task of razing what remains of the autocratic structure.
There is no doubt that the pace of what might be called the self-emancipation of Soviet society has far outdistanced not only what Mr. Gorbachev intended, but even what more radical would-be reformers expected as late as 1987-88. And the sources of that explosion of self-assertion, which has astounded (and in many cases frightened) the original proponents of perestroika, must indeed be sought in Russian history as well as in the events of the last five years. But as Mr. Hosking himself admits (though rather obliquely), force, not ''habits of community,'' is likely to be the decisive factor with regard to the explosive problem of ethnic nationalism. While the nationalism question has broken other empires of the 20th century, he says, ''the strength of the armed forces and the security police gives [the Soviet Union] quite a good chance of being an exception for the foreseeable future.'' But as recent events have shown, force may not prove the solution to the Soviet Union's nationalities problems; and with ethnic Russians constituting only 50 percent of the population of the Soviet Union, one might well ask, can the Soviet system don new democratic clothes largely on the strength of Russian traditions?
Some historians might also take issue with Mr. Hosking's view of the soviets of 1905 and 1917 being harbingers of democracy and organs of self-government. They were essentially revolutionary (and chaotic) organizations. The 1917 Petrograd soviet, rather than attempting to govern, construed its function as that of obstructing the Provisional Government of the post-February 1917 infant Russian democracy, and so contributed to its collapse. Indeed, the lessons of the February Revolution ought to be kept in mind both by Mr. Gorbachev's people and by those who believe that he is not moving fast enough.
Such questions aside, ''The Awakening of the Soviet Union'' has great merit in distinguishing the various phases and elements of the process of reform. Mr. Hosking is especially perceptive in attributing great importance to the reverberations of Chernobyl: after first trying to conceal and then to minimize the repercussions of that catastrophe, the Kremlin realized the imperative need for glasnost. That realization and Mr. Gorbachev's call to Andrei Sakharov marked a decisive phase in the evolution of perestroika.
By placing perestroika in a historical perspective, Mr. Hosking provides an extremely useful corrective to those who see its success or failure solely in terms of the balance of power between the reformers and the conservatives on the Central Committee. The regime's readiness to bite the bullet on the economy and other issues makes up the daily headlines of the Western press. But the ultimate fate of Mr. Gorbachev's efforts, as this fine study suggests, rests on matters far deeper than what the newspapers are able to tell us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AWAKENING OF THE SOVIET UNION, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); 

PERSON: ULAM, ADAM B; HOSKING, GEOFFREY GEOFFREY HOSKING (96%); MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (67%); 



205 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: SCIENCE BOOKS;
LOVE AMONG THE INSECTS

BYLINE: By DAVID QUAMMEN; David Quammen, the author of ''The Flight of the Iguana,'' is working on a book about worldwide patterns of evolution and extinction of species.

 BODY:

SONORAN DESERT SUMMER
By John Alcock.
Illustrated by Marilyn Hoff Stewart.
187 pp. Tucson:
The University of Arizona Press. $19.95.
Two years ago the sociobiologist and entomologist Edward O. Wilson published an essay titled ''The Little Things That Run the World,'' making a good case for the transcendent significance of insects. Actually, he was speaking up not just for insects but also for mites, worms, copepods, spiders, corals, mollusks and all those other spineless (and, for the most part, tiny) animals that science lumps in the category of invertebrates. Mr. Wilson's point was that these creatures, despised and inconspicuous as they generally are, represent a sort of interstitial glue holding all of nature together, and that we ignore such species, we extinguish such species, at our peril. 
It's helpful to keep Mr. Wilson's argument in mind while reading ''Sonoran Desert Summer'' by John Alcock. Otherwise we might mistake it for merely a sweet book of observations by a man who studies wasps and butterflies in the desert of central Arizona. It is that, but not merely that. John Alcock is an ecologist with a patient eye, a broad curiosity and a head full of well-honed questions, and this is his rumination about the way the world works.
The Sonoran Desert between May and September is a zone of ferocious extremes - of heat and drought and famine - extremes that enforce the laws of biological economy remorselessly. It's a good place, therefore, to study how living creatures meet their most basic needs. Mr. Alcock, a professor of zoology at Arizona State University, focuses on the seemingly small subject of how male insects solve the problem of finding females. At the same time, he stays alert to such tangential but intriguing ecological matters as how a Gila monster budgets its energy, why the poorwill doesn't lay camouflaged eggs and what caused the mysterious disappearance of the Hohokam culture of desert Indians.
He also narrows his focus along another dimension, concentrating on just one piece of landscape, Usery Mountain, an hour outside of Phoenix. After years of fieldwork there, Mr. Alcock seems to know his chosen mountain - with all its peccaries and lizards and coyotes and vultures, all its saguaros and paloverdes and hackberries, all its mutualisms and predator-prey interactions - as intimately as the 19th-century French entomologist Jean Henri Fabre knew his two acres of stony meadow at Serignan.
''Sonoran Desert Summer'' is a sequel in some sense to his earlier ''Sonoran Desert Spring,'' but because of the drama inherent to Sonoran summer it doesn't read like an afterthought. It's a mixed record of pure nature observation and conceptual ecology. And it's a more subtle mix than it first appears. Some of the short sections are laconic and visual, innocent of thought, like a Japanese landscape screen. But in longer pieces, such as ''Altruism Among Ground Squirrels'' and ''How to Win Mates and Influence Enemies,'' Mr. Alcock wrestles with hard-edged biological questions and competing hypotheses, citing his own research alongside the work of other scientists. He shifts back and forth between these two modes, the cognitive and the moody, so any reader expecting a succession of self-contained nature essays may be disappointed. ''Sonoran Desert Summer'' is not a collection of essays but a book shaped to be a book. The panels of landscape and the bursts of scientific explication give way to one another in a nicely irregular rhythm.
For instance, in a piece called ''May Twilight'' Mr. Alcock writes, ''In a patch of creosote bush between the two peaks of Usery Mountain an orange bee hovers, a huge bee whose wings blur in flight as the insect drifts up, then to one side, loops out, then back.'' He has no point to make about this huge orange bee; it is simply there, a mantra for desert meditators. But the orange bee also serves as a restful counterpoint to his analytical explanation of social behavior among Centris pallida (the digger bee, which happens to be huge also, though not orange), in which he shows why male diggers are obliged by evolution to excavate virgin females from their pupal burrows.
Elsewhere, Mr. Alcock describes two kestrels and two Cooper's hawks riding thermals near a ridge: ''The four hawks curl around the flank of Usery Mountain and continue on their migration, heading south across a remnant of lowland desert that yields to a patchwork of houses, trailer parks, and alfalfa fields.'' The birds cruise toward Mexico, though in a narrative sense they go nowhere; they are part of a purely descriptive interlude titled ''Hawk Morning,'' which falls between two analyses of intricate adaptations among other species. This surging and coasting intellectual rhythm, this alternation of offerings to the mind, to the eye and to the heart, serves Mr. Alcock well. His book seems to get stronger and more assured as we notice the pattern and adjust our expectations.
''One of the great insights that has come from rigorously thinking about the costs and benefits of traits to individuals, as measured by their impact on individual reproductive success,'' he writes, ''has been to escape from the notion that there is some sort of absolute scale of characteristics in the animal kingdom, running from primitive, inferior, and second rate to advanced, superior, and first rate.'' That's a valuable piece of wisdom, and behind it lies the awareness that, ironically, even the rigorous thinking that brings us such an insight has its limits. The real charm of Mr. Alcock's book is that, while he tells us such cerebral things, he also shows us that scientific cognition isn't the only way to experience a glorious ecosystem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SONORAN DESERT SUMMER (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ENTOMOLOGY (90%); DESERTS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ZOOLOGY (76%); MAMMALOGY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CRUSTACEANS (71%); 

PERSON: QUAMMEN, DAVID; ALCOCK, JOHN EDWARD O WILSON (92%); 



206 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Outdoors;
A Debate on Atlantic Salmon

BYLINE: By Nelson Bryant

 BODY:
Should game-fish status be sought for the Atlantic salmon in Canada, which, if achieved, would protect that highly prized species from commercial netters?
In the spring issue of the ''Atlantic Salmon Journal,'' the quarterly publication of the Atlantic Salmon Federation, Lee Wulff argues for that proposal, and Wilfred Carter, who was for many years the chief executive officer of the federation and now serves as president emeritus, opposes it.
Wulff, a world-famous angler and author who is also an officer of the federation, observes that a recent federation study of the salmon's economic value to Canada shows that a salmon caught by an angler is worth 40 times more to the general economy than one taken in a commercial fisherman's net. The entire commercial catch of salmon in Canada is worth about $7 million, he writes, while the angler take, usually about 15 percent of the total harvest, is worth $43 million. 
While admitting that commercial netting has been eliminated in some provinces, Wulff notes that it still continues in Newfoundland, which has, he observes, ''traditionally taken the lion's share of our fish.''
''Why is this allowed?'' he continues. ''Consensus is that the people of Newfoundland are poor and need all the money and food they can get. That is a kind and sentimental excuse but not a very good one, since, having depleted its own rivers, Newfoundland's major take is of salmon created by conservation measures that were carried out and paid for by other provinces.''
The Newfoundland fishery also intercepts salmon bound for their home streams in New England, where a multimillion-dollar salmon restoration effort has been under way for years.
''It would be far better to subsidize the people who will suffer if the Newfoundland fishery closed than it would be to continue allowing them to diminish the salmon resource at great cost to the nation,'' Wulff adds.
It is Wulff's contention that the influential Canadian-American federation should have as its rallying cry ''Make the Atlantic salmon a game fish.'' This would, he believes, unite Canadian anglers from coast to coast.
Carter admits that the emotional appeal of such a campaign would be compelling, but adds that ''in practical terms the losses (by alienation of civil servants, politicians and citizens) might easily outweigh the gains.''
Wulff also notes that the increasing production of Atlantic salmon farms (Norway pioneered this and there are now such farms in Canada and Maine) insures - even if the salmon were given game-fish status - that those who like to eat salmon but don't angle for them would not be deprived of their pleasure.
Although game-fish status for the fish he so deeply admires is his dream, Wulff nonetheless makes some less drastic suggestions for controlling and limiting the commercial catch. He would have the commercial netters use gear that allows the large breeders to escape. He would also limit netting to the mouths of rivers and their estuaries. Carter would be the first to agree with the last.
River-by-river harvesting of Atlantic salmon has long been regarded as the ideal management approach. Hatched out in fresh water, young salmon eventually descend to the sea, where they attain growth and maturity, returning, in one to three years, to their natal streams to spawn. River keepers know how many salmon should make their way upstream to spawning beds to insure a given stream's optimum production. If sufficient numbers didn't appear, the commercial and sport fisheries on it could be closed.
In his argument, Carter notes that Canada has already reduced the numbers of its commercial fishermen by half, and adds that ''further cutbacks are planned.''
''It really doesn't matter to a resource manager,'' Carter writes, ''how a renewable resource like salmon is cropped. What does matter is the number of fish that are taken, and the number that are left for spawning.''
Noting that as a member of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization, Canada ''has accepted the fact that nonproducing countries (countries with no salmon rivers) such as Greenland and the Faeroes, in whose waters Atlantic salmon from North America feed and grow, are entitled to catch some fish.''
''This catch is not now, and won't ever be done by recreational fishermen,'' he adds. Carter then observes that action by Canada making the salmon a game fish wouldn't apply to those high seas fisheries.
Although the Canadian Government has spent millions in buying up commercial fishermen's salmon netting rights, some 3,700 more are still entitled to take salmon.
And even if, Carter continues, a total buyout of commercial licenses did take place, Canada would have to allow ''its native populations of Indians and Inuit to fish salmon for food.'' Carter doubts that those natives could be persuaded to ''harvest their catch with rod and fly.''
Carter observes that remote coastal villages in Newfoundland that are now getting much of their income from salmon netting, could not, were the salmon to become a game fish tomorrow, immediately woo anglers to their streams. Guides would have to be trained, roads improved, hostelries built. And one should also remember that commercial fishing is a way of life in many parts of Newfoundland.
Whenever a fish is avidly sought by both sport and commercial interests, there is inevitably disagreement over how to allocate the resource. In the United States, the striped bass is the subject of such contention. Some of the Atlantic coastal states allow commercial fishing for them, some do not. Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, has introduced a bill to make the striper a game fish. The chances of its becoming law are exceedingly remote. Federal game-fish status isn't likely for any species that is the target of a longstanding or substantial commercial fishery. And if a state decides to bestow game-fish status on a species - which has been done with the snook in Florida and the red fish in Texas -one may rest assured that a thriving sport-fishing industry that includes those species already exists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OUTDOORS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (63%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (63%); ATLANTIC SALMON FEDERATION (58%); ATLANTIC SALMON FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT; SALMON SPORT FISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES (89%); MAMMALS (78%); FINFISH FARMING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AQUACULTURE (73%); WRITERS (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, NELSON WILFRED CARTER (93%); LEE WULFF (92%); 



207 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Conversions Slows to a Ripple

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
THE wave of conversions that moved across New York City in the 1980's and transformed some 300,000 rental apartments into cooperatives and condominiums has slowed dramatically.
After being nearly overwhelmed by a rising tide of conversion plans, the Real Estate Financing Bureau of the State Attorney General's office saw more than a 50 percent drop in the number of plans submitted for review from 1987 through 1989. Submissions declined from 584 in 1987 to 444 in 1988 and then to 280 last year. The figures include eviction and noneviction plans for both co-ops and condominiums.
''The drop in 1989 was most significant in the last quarter of the year,'' said Frederick K. Mehlman, an assistant attorney general in charge of the bureau, ''and the numbers for 1990 so far are even slower.'' 
Slow sales and tumbling prices have so weakenened the positions of some sponsors that they are abandoning their conversion plans. At the same time, many tenants have gained the upper hand in bargaining and are negotiating substantial reductions in the prices they have to pay for their apartments.
The braking action on conversions came from several directions. It started in 1986 with a change in the Federal tax code that limited the deductibility of passive losses on real estate investments. That drove away nearly all investor buyers of converted units, many of whom had until then been snapping up blocks of occupied apartments.
The city's residential building boom, which brought to the market a huge number of both renovated and newly built co-op and condominium residences, pushed down prices and narrowed profits for converters. Then a downturn in the region's economy dealt another blow to the weakening residential real estate market.
Another factor in the slowdown was that by the late 80's sponsors were faced with a dwindling supply of top quality rental buildings appropriate for co-op or condominium conversions.
''We are far from the point where there is an end to cooperative and condominium conversions,'' said Nancy Kramer, a lawyer in the bureau who serves as the office's deputy director, ''but activity has slowed considerably.''
Declines in conversions were recorded by the bureau for all of the city's boroughs. Brooklyn had the most substantial drop, with the number of plans accepted by the bureau dropping from 179 in 1988 to 126 last year. In Manhattan, which has long been at the front of the conversion trend, the number sank from 220 in 1988 to 184 last year.
In Queens, 94 plans were accepted in 1988 and 63 in 1989. In the Bronx the fall was from 59 in 1988 to 48 last year. Staten Island had only one residential conversion during 1989, whereas four went through the previous year.
Even though New York remains overwhelmingly a city of renters - 82.7 percent of apartment-dwellers at last count in 1987 - when the pace of conversions hit its peak in the mid-80's it seemed to many that the trend was moving with the speed and force of a steamroller out of control. One primary catalyst for the conversion movement, housing experts say, was the establishment of rent stabilization in 1969. The new rules greatly expanded the number of apartments with regulated rents.
''AFTER that some owners felt they could not justify holding their properties as rentals any longer,'' said Lee Fasio, divisional director of investment finance and development at New York University's Real Estate Institute. ''One way to get out from under the burden of carrying buildings where operating costs outpaced rents or where owners were not satisfied with profit margins was to sell to tenants through conversion plans.''
But rising interest rates, which reached the double digits by the late 70's, coupled with the city's financial woes, limited the pace of conversions until the early 80's.
Once mortgage interest rates retreated, the floodgates opened. Suddenly converters found scores of eager buyers in middle-income families and the growing population of high-earning young professionals as well as in investors looking for a ride up with the city's soaring property values.
This surge in demand attracted speculators who bought rental properties with the specific purpose of conversion. It was not uncommon for them to see profits triple on the original investment even if extensive renovations and improvements had to be made.
But one sign of the conversion market's failing health today is that speculators have all but vanished.
''We are basically out of the conversion business,'' said Robert Stang, a vice president with M. J. Raynes, a real estate investment and management company that was among the most active converters in the last two decades. ''With the exception of one or two projects in Westchester, the sales we are handling now are in projects we converted two or three years ago.''
Mr. Stang estimated that between 1979 and 1986, M. J. Raynes was responsible for converting 20,000 rental units. In 1986, the company was a partner in one of the largest and most valuable conversions the city had seen. In partnership with Bernard Mendik, it offered for sale the 3,800 units in the eight buildings of Lincoln Towers, a complex that sprawls along West End Avenue from 66th to 70th Street. They were put up for sale 18 months after the Mendik-Raynes partnership acquired the complex as part of the MacArthur Foundation real estate portfolio.
But the Lincoln Towers conversion project was one of the last for M. J. Raynes. Mr. Stang said that since 1986 the company has not bought a single rental property in New York City for the purpose of converting it.
''The alteration in the tax laws made it clear to us that the atmosphere was going to change substantially,'' said Mr. Stang. ''Then in 1987 there was a move in the State Legislature to change the rules for co-op conversions, which we felt would further erode the market. So even before prices started to fall, we were easing off on this aspect of our real estate business.''
One real estate company that seems to be swimming against the tide, however, is Rose Associates. In the last few months the family-owned, Manhattan real estate investment and development company has submitted plans for the conversion of nine apartment buildings in Manhattan. Taken together, the plans, which are for both co-ops and condominiums, hold the potential for converting more than 3,000 rental units.
Among the Rose buildings for which plans are pending are the Sheffield, an 843-unit building at 322 West 57th Street near Eighth Avenue; a building at 45 East 89th Street with 157 units, and the Park Gramercy, at 7 Lexington Avenue at 22d Street, with 97 units.
Adam Rose, a company principal in charge of the residential management division, refused to answer questions about the conversion projects.
''It would serve no worthwhile purpose for us to discuss any aspect of our plans at this time,'' said Mr. Rose. The company is in varying stages of negotiations with the tenants of the buildings where conversion plans have been proposed.
Although prices for co-ops and condominiums have fallen in the last two years, real estate industry observers say the Roses are not as vulnerable to the market's drop as other converters might be. This is because the Roses have owned all of the buildings undergoing conversions for at least 10 years.
''The people who are hurting now are the sponsors who bought buildings in 1986 and 1987, when prices were really high,'' said Michael Finder, a lawyer who has represented tenants in several converted buildings. ''Most of them are not getting anywhere near the prices they expected to get.''
BUT instead of being a magnet for buyers kept on the sidelines by the rapidly rising housing costs in the 80's, the down market has been characterized by some striking contradictions.
''The conversion business is much less predictable today than it was just a year or so ago,'' said Arthur Weinstein, a lawyer who serves both tenant groups and sponsors. ''On one hand, the soft market has made the tenants' money more attractive to sponsors. This has given them the upper hand in the bargaining process and some have been able to get very good deals from their sponsors.''
''But on the other hand,'' he continued, ''the weak residental market has made other tenants very nervous and even more skeptical of the entire conversion process. They are afraid that prices will drop even further. Apartment ownership, which at one time seemed like a great chance for equity and huge profits, now is viewed by some as not worth the risk.''
Moreover, news reports about the recent financial problems of some buildings converted to co-ops or condominiums have also made outside buyers wary.
''They are much less willing to invest in buildings where the number of inside buyers is low,'' said Mr. Finder. ''They now take low tenant involvement as a sign that the deal may not be so good or that there may be problems that are not apparent in the prospectus.''
Although Ms. Kramer of the Financing Bureau says the agency has not documented or observed a noticeable rise in the number of conversion plans withdrawn by their sponsors, others contend that an increasing number of conversion plans do not make it to the finish line.
Under the bureau's procedures, a sponsor first submits a detailed proposal for converting a building. The proposal is examined by the bureau to make sure it includes all the information a tenant or an outsider needs to make an intelligent decision on whether to buy. Once that is determined, the plan is circulated and a period of negotiation usually follows, resulting in amendments to the plan.
Then sales begin, and when the minimum number of units is sold - 15 percent in a noneviction plan and 51 percent in an eviction plan - the bureau accepts the plan and the co-op is established.
MR. FINDER said that in the last few months tenants groups in two buildings he has represented have seen sponsors abandon plans.
In other cases sponsors are making concessions to make their deals work. That was the case for a building on Ocean Parkway between Avenue C and Beverly Road in the Kensington section of Brooklyn.
It came as a surprise to both tenants and the sponsor of the conversion plan for the building that after more than two years of negotiations occupants of only nine of the 112 units in the building agreed to buy their apartments. The sponsor first told tenants that there would be no conversion unless at least 10 tenants committed to buy their apartments.
''There was a lot of excitement when the plan was first presented,'' said Risa Kriegal Coscia, a tenant in the building who was active in the negotiations. ''Even though we have many older people who would not have bought, most who could afford to said they probably would. Other buildings on Ocean Parkway were being converted and real estate was doing so well back then.''
But as the negotiations dragged on, prices for apartments in nearby buildings fell and there was a turnaround in the mood among tenants. Some began to worry about the market for resale and others, Mrs. Coscia said, others grew tired of waiting to buy and moved on.
''After we got only nine buyers,''said Mrs. Coscia, ''the sponsor said he was not sure he was going to go through with the conversion.''
But last month after meeting the 15 percent sales requirement through commitments from outside buyers, he decided to relent on the 10 inside-buyers requirement.
''The process took a long time - probably too long,'' said Mrs. Coscia. ''But we did manage to get nearly everything we wanted in terms of building improvements, prices and the reserve fund.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REAL ESTATE FINANCING BUREAU (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); TAX LAW (51%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G



208 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: Transitional Housing;
The New Shelters for Homeless Families

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
THE problem of homelessness in American cities has given birth to new housing forms, mainly in New York City. The latest, on Powers Avenue in the South Bronx, is a structure built for permanent use as temporary housing for families, usually mothers with young children. It is as solidly designed and built as a public school or a small hospital. People started moving into it in December.
The Koch administration originally planned 20 of these, for close to 2,000 apartments in all boroughs on city-owned land. They were a key element in former Mayor Edward I. Koch's plan to phase out hotels, and such buildings as old schools or hospitals, as first-stop transitional housing for homeless families and singles.
But communities and their elected representatives objected to many of the chosen sites. It now appears that at most 11 buildings - the number approved by the Board of Estimate - will be built. Only the Powers Avenue building is complete and occupied. 
A second will be occupied in late spring, and five others are in construction. All are designed for families, with private baths and kitchen facilities. The remaining four, each for singles, should be finished by the end of next year, city officials say.
There are two basic designs, one for 100 families and the other for 200 singles. The firm of Skidmore Owings & Merrill designed both.
Mayor David N. Dinkins hopes to complete these projects, said Nancy Wackstein, director of the Mayor's Office on Homelessness, and also to provide other facilities - in some mix of rehabilitation, acquired existing buildings and new construction - for about 5,000 single adults. These would replace the armories now used as temporary shelters for single adults. No sites have been picked.
''We need three or four years to deal with the people in the armories,'' Ms. Wackstein said.
The 100-unit Powers Avenue shelter was one of three awarded to the construction firm of Kreisler Borg Florman of Scarsdale, N.Y., in the first round of contract awards in April 1988. It makes a good starting point for considering how the new permanent family shelters will fit into their environment and into a total policy for dealing with the needs for both housing and social services by families on their way to independent living.
Will the buildings and their use stigmatize the communities in which they are situated, or blend smoothly in? How ''transitional'' will the housing be? Will lengths of stay grow?
One outcome that may already be emerging is that this quality housing will become the shelter of choice for dependent families hoping to make their way into independent living in publicly assisted apartments. Housing relocation assistance is one of the key social services provided at the new shelters, and with it families in shelters may be able to compete more successfully with the still-housed poor for scarce vacancies in government-assisted housing.
''The city's success in emptying the welfare hotels and providing an alternate system of transitional housing has brought a new way for people to prioritize themselves for permanent housing,'' said William Grinker, former Commissioner of Social Services and now a consultant to the Twentieth Century Fund, a public-policy research foundation.
A ruling by the state's Court of Appeals last week in the case of Barbara Jiggers, a single mother who was evicted in 1987 from an apartment in Far Rockaway, Queens, may point the way to higher housing allowances for welfare recipients, which the court said must be ''reasonable.'' This will give courts a role in deciding whether state shelter allowances are adequate.
ACCORDING to some city officials, eviction for lack of adequate rent has not been a significant cause of family homelessness. Others say that providing households with public assistance to pay rent is bound to avert their splitting into components in need of separate housing.
In any event, the Powers Family Residence - at 346 Powers Avenue, near 141st Street - is an attractive and unobtrusive three-level addition to a low-income community that was a pocket of subsidized rehabilitation efforts in the 70's and 80's. Shaped like an H, it has a landscaped front entrance and a play area in the rear. Cupola-like elements on the pitched roof bring daylight through glass-enclosed spaces to the long corridors on all floors.
The rooms are spare, with cooking facilities near the entrance, and a private bath. There are 100 rooms in all, 70 single rooms of 275 square feet, normally for a single adult with one or two children, and 30 suites of 550 square feet for larger families.
There are also offices, consulting rooms, four day-care rooms, two common living rooms on each floor of each wing and a 1,600-square-foot common room for meetings and large gatherings. In the front there is a landscaped area leading to the entrance, which is intended to create a friendly, noninstitutional appearance, said Thomas Killian, the Skidmore Owings and Merrill design architect.
''There is nothing temporary about that facility,'' said John V. Cricco, vice president of Kreisler Borg Florman, which built the Powers Street residence. The 70,000-square-foot structure is built of reinforced concrete. Between the sheetrock walls stands wire mesh that will provide extra security. Bathroom mirrors are made of polished stainless steel to prevent breakage. Shower stalls are also stainless steel. Security doors and metal window guards protect openings. Inside, bright colors and daylight make the appearance cheerful. Strangers are carefully signed in by guards.
THE average length of stay of the families is expected to be about six months, but by some accounts the average is already falling. Interestingly, the farther it falls, the stronger will grow the evidence that transitional housing is any low-income family's best bet for rapid relocation to scarce, desirable permanent housing.
Already, competition is reported to have developed between homeless families in the transitional system and other families on public assistance who are not homeless for the rehabilitated housing being created from the city's tax-foreclosed housing stock.
Permanence as a transitional facility is what distinguishes these city buildings from the HELP (Housing Enterprise for the Less Privileged) buildings that Andrew Cuomo, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's son, has been developing in New York City and elsewhere for homeless families and singles.
Mr. Cuomo's first project was a 200-unit building for families in the East New York section of Brooklyn that opened in 1987. He said that his concept is that the buildings will eventually be transformed into permanent housing, perhaps when they transfer to city ownership after 10 years. It is owned by a nonprofit corporation in which Mr. Cuomo is a principal and was financed by 10-year state bonds.
The rooms in this building are 400 square feet, which can be combined into one 800-square-foot room to make larger permanent apartments for families of four or five. The typical current occupant is a young mother with a child. The average length of stay is six months but the range is wide - from three months to a year - Mr. Cuomo said.
To officials of the city's Department of Social Services, the new buildings are part of the long-term need to provide emergency rooms for 3,100 families by fiscal 1992, which starts July 1, 1991. Typically, these families are a young mother with one or two children, the mother unemployed and never having lived independently.
These family units are to replace the so-called welfare hotels entirely, which at peak use were housing more than 3,600 such families a night citywide. Currently, the department is down to about 1,100 families in hotels.
The Powers Residence, from the Department of Social Services' standpoint, is merely one of a variety of family shelters, most of them in older but renovated buildings. Together, all these shelters are providing 1,900 family units.
But building permanent new structures custom-designed for a transient occupancy gives a special dimension to the homelessness issue. It demonstrates plainly that the contemporary issue is as much more preparation for independent living and day care for youngsters as it is housing creation.
Separate buildings that offer all necessary conditions for these services and are built to institutional standards under city auspices are a great if expensive convenience. Family shelters' costs, when the city develops them, are typically above $200 a square foot in pure construction costs, or at least $14 million for a 70,000-square-foot structure.
Nobody can judge how many people will need that help. What is suspected is that there are 50,000 to 100,000 ''doubled up'' families. The ones most in need of help may be the first into the shelter system. But many may see the shelters as an essential way station on the road to desirable permanent housing.
Community resistance to them, or at least to the sites picked by the Koch administration, was so intense that permanent new shelters will probably never become more than demonstration projects. The few that are created will make a contribution to finding a humane and constructive way of temporarily housing people in distress.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New complex on Powers Avenue in the South Bronx is serving as temporary housing for homeless families (The New York Times/Chester Higgins Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (94%); FAMILY (92%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (91%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); APPROVALS (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); CONTRACT AWARDS (61%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR) EDWARD I KOCH (61%); NANCY WACKSTEIN (58%); 



209 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: A Sweet Deal and a Sponsor Dropout

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
THE downturn in the co-op and condominium market in recent months has given tenants in some buildings going through the conversion process the sort of leverage that has resulted in some pretty sweet deals. But in other proposed conversions, the soft market has been a spoiler.
The paradox can be seen in the conversion efforts in two buildings in Manhattan.
After nearly 18 months of bargaining, the tenants in the 12-story building at 780 West End Avenue at 98th Street were able to negotiate an average 45 percent reduction in the original asking prices for their apartments. 
The negotiations with the sponsor also resulted in significant building improvements and a $1 million reserve fund.
''The timing of the conversion really put us in a good position for two reasons,'' said Richard Bellman, a tenant who served on the negotiating committee. ''While we were negotiating our deal, apartment prices in the neighborhood really started dropping. When we saw what was happening we felt we could be hard on the price issue.''
Another factor working in the tenants' favor, Mr. Bellman said, was that Alvin Dworman, a principal in the company sponsoring the condominium conversion plan for the building, was a new owner. He had bought the building in 1986 for $6.1 million, when real estate prices were at their highest.
''The rents in this building are stabilized,'' said Mr. Bellman. ''We didn't see how from a financial standpoint he could justify keeping the building a rental. We took advantage of that, too.''
Mr. Bellman said that in the initial offering plan, the six-room apartment he lives in was priced at $580,000 for outside buyers and $400,000 for existing tenants. By the end of negotiations the price for an insider had come down to $180,000. In addition to the price cuts, the sponsor agreed to install new windows and replace the roof and renovate the lobby and corridors.
Of the 61 units in the building, 25 were sold to existing tenants and, so far, six have been sold to outside buyers.
By contrast, the tough negotiating posture of tenants derailed a conversion plan for 228-330 Eighth Avenue near 26th Street.
''We had a core group of about five or six who were very interested in buying,'' said Hugh McLoughlin. ''With only 28 apartments in the building, that would have been enough to satisfy the 15 percent needed by the Attorney General's requirements.''
The first offering put the price of a one-bedroom apartments at $130,000 to $145,000. The tenants rejected it immediately. But Mr. McLoughlin said that the sponsors, Edward and Joan Cohen, agreed fairly early to come down. At one point the sponsors put a proposal on the table that gave insiders a 70 percent break on prices.
''Their strategy was to sell very low to a few of us just to meet the requirement,''' said Mr. McLoughlin. ''They hoped to make up the difference with sale of units at market rate to outsiders.''
ANOTHER reason the Cohens could justify giving very low prices to insiders was that the building's lucrative retail spaces would not be part of the residential conversion plan. They would stay in the sponsor's hands.
But the market did not cooperate. When co-op and condominium prices started on their downward course, Chelsea was one of the neighbohoods that led the way.
Another issue in the negotiations concerned the building's condition. An engineer's report the tenants had commissioned, Mr. McLoughlin said, revealed serious problems with the building's electrical and plumbing systems and boiler. The tenants negotiating to buy their apartments, Mr. McLoughlin said, insisted that any deal include renovations and repairs.
But when presented with that demand, the sponsors decided to drop the plan.
''Once the market fell apart,'' said Goldie Rotenberg, who served as the sponsor's attorney, ''the numbers did not work. The improvements the tenants were asking for would have taken too much money out of the deal. The bottom line was that it just did not make economic sense.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hugh McLoughlin at 228-330 Eighth Avenue, where sponsor withdrew conversion plan; Richard Bellman at 780 West End Avenue, where tenants were able to cut insider prices (The New York Times/Dith Pran)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G HUGH MCLOUGHLIN (84%); RICHARD BELLMAN (73%); 



210 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: IN THE REGION: Connecticut and Westchester;
Skirting the Potholes on Renovation Road

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
IN spring, many a homeowner's thoughts turn to remodeling the kitchen, enlarging the deck or adding a great room. And so it was in 1987, when Peter and Mary Gilman hired Lawrence Williams, a home-improvement contractor, to build an addition to their Wilton home and make some repairs to the house itself. ''We chose him because he was the lowest bidder,'' said Mrs. Gilman.
More than two years later they were some $57,000 poorer and living through a nightmare of mud and debris, of wind whistling through tarpaulins, of arguments over payments, of unanswered phone calls. The job was incomplete and a contractor's lien was placed on their home. 
Last October, after they and other customers of Mr. Williams complained to the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection, he was arrested and tried, and on Dec. 13 in Superior Court in Bridgeport he was sentenced to two years in jail. He was convicted of having renovated 10 homes without first registering his business with the state - a criminal offense in Connecticut.
Because of prison overcrowding he was released 49 days later. Joseph Rubin, an assistant attorney general, said it is doubtful, but not impossible, that he could register and start working again.
Three other remodeling contractors were jailed for the same violation last year, and the court ordered $222,113 to be returned to clients by contractors, double the amount of the previous year. Home remodeling complaints referred by the State Department of Consumer Protection to the State Attorney General for criminal prosecution rose from 63 in the previous year to 120 last year, and 112 resulted in convictions.
But most of the state's 16,000 registered home remodelers appear to operate without major problems. Among them is Robert Hanbury, president of the House of Hanbury in Newington, who is completing a $65,000 job for Michael Kehoe in West Hartford.
''We called him back because we were so pleased with a $15,000 job he did for us two years ago,'' said Mr. Kehoe. ''He's expensive, but his work is very good, he finishes on time, and he understands the style of our 60-year-old house.'' Mr. Hanbury is co-chairman with Paul St. Onge of the newly formed Connecticut Remodelers Council, a division of the Connecticut Homebuilders Association.
Shoddy remodelers are a particular embarrassment to their reputable counterparts at a time when the home-improvement business is going through what Mr. St. Onge, president of the All Seasons Construction Company in West Hartford, calls ''as tight a time as I've known in 10 years.''
''Homes are going down in value,'' he said. ''Combine that with uncertainty about job security and people are holding off on that big addition or even a new bathroom.''
For those who do renovate, the watchword is caveat emptor. ''We're talking about a tremendous impact economically on the consumer,'' said June Neal, spokeswoman for the Department of Consumer Protection in Hartford.
Of the 1,800 remodeling complaints filed last year - the department's No. 1 problem - several represent losses of more than $100,000 each.
To help consumers, the state implemented a Guarantee Fund this past Jan. 1. Contractors and their salespeople must pay into it an annual fee ranging from $60 to $430. Victims of registered contractors can be reimbursed from the pool for losses up to $5,000 a job.
''It's scary for the public going into the marketplace,'' said Mr. St. Onge. ''We formed the council to provide a reliable referral service, to share ideas and experiences with our peers and upgrade the industry by holding educational seminars and dealing more effectively with legislative matters.''
SINCE registration does not constitute endorsement, proposals for more control through licensing of contractors crop up periodically. But the General Assembly consistently rejects them because of the diversity of skills involved and the expense of setting up a bureau. Carpenters, electricians and many other professionals are already licensed.
The council has 40 members in Connecticut, while the National Remodelers' Council in Washington has 4,000 members nationwide. Bryan Patchan, the national director, noted that ''in the Northeast, remodeling grew at a phenomenal rate from 1984 to 1988, but the industry has turned flat'' and that ''typically, people remodel an existing house when they move in, or a new house after about five years.''
Another trade organization - the 25-year-old International Remodeling Contractors Association in West Hartford, with 1,000 members nationwide, covers much the same ground, offering contractors and suppliers referrals, low-cost insurance and seminars about the industry and the law. The two organizations charge annual dues ranging from $150 to $450 a year.
''Both groups work with us,'' said Ms. Neal at the Consumer Protection office, ''but most contractors are not members of any trade association. They tend to be loners.''
For several years her department tried to reach consumers through a booklet outlining the do's and don'ts of hiring contractors. ''The trouble is that by the time you get your hands on one - usually when you get your building permit, you've already hired somebody,'' said Mrs. Gilman.
She learned too late that she should not have made that $5,000 down payment until material was delivered or work had begun. A written contract should have detailed all work and materials and a starting and completion date enforceable by law.
A waiver against liens placed by unpaid subcontractors should have been required, and the contractor's registration number should have been on the contract and on his truck, on his business cards and on his advertisements.
Consumers have three days in which to cancel and they are not obliged to pay for work done during that period. If the contractor arranges financing for the customer, he must comply with all Federal truth-in-lending and state banking laws.
''We have been unable to educate the consumer, so now we are trying to educate the contractor,'' said Ms. Neal. On April 27 her department will start a campaign touting the publication of its booklet called ''The Connecticut Contractor.''
''They will be mailed to registered contractors and available to the public on request,'' she said.
As for the Gilmans, ''I wish we had accepted another contractor's estimate for $85,000,'' said Mrs. Gilman. ''That's what it's going to cost by the time we pay somebody else to finish.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Gilman at her house in Wilton. The incomplete addition is behind her (The NewYork Times/Stephen Castagneto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FUND (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ALL SEASONS GLOBAL (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PROTECTION DEPARTMENT (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); CONSUMER PROTECTION; LICENSES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION CONSUMER LAW (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); HOME REMODELING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); SENTENCING (73%); LITIGATION (73%); PRISONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (57%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR PAUL ST ONGE (67%); MICHAEL KEHOE (59%); 



211 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 19, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: 55 Wall Street;
Foreign Buyers Get a Costly Piece of Americana

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
AS the central meeting place of New York's business leaders, as the United States Custom House and as headquarters of the National City Bank (forerunner of Citibank), 55 Wall Street has always commanded attention. Today is no different. It has just been sold to foreign investors, including the Japanese, for $69.1 million.
In effect, they have bought two buildings in one that fills the block bounded by Hanover and William Streets and Exchange Place. The bottom building is the 150-year-old Merchants' Exchange, whose tremendous Ionic colonnade - brooding, deep and as enduring as the granite from which it was carved - gives Wall Street a classically noble air.
Atop that is a five-story addition by McKim, Mead & White, the centerpiece of which is an equally colossal Corinthian colonnade. Within the base is one of the grandest interiors in lower Manhattan, a banking room framed by 30-foot marble columns, under a coffered ceiling and a 72-foot-high dome. 
What the new owners paid is almost as remarkable as what they got. And it comes at a time when, as the Julien J. Studley brokerage has noted, ''the Japanese are becoming gun shy about trophy deals.''
The price for the 241,000-square-foot building works out to $287 a square foot. In one of the few vaguely comparable sales downtown - that is, a low-rise, turn-of-the-century, designated landmark - the former Chamber of Commerce building at 65 Liberty Street was sold to the International Commercial Bank of China last year for $5.6 million, or about $147 a square foot.
But Jeffrey R. Gural, one of the sellers of 55 Wall, said that its tremendous rotunda alone put it in a category by itself. ''You can't duplicate that space,'' he said. ''It is such a unique, valuable space. It offsets the price per square foot.'' Mr. Gural, together with Barry Gosin and Philip Pilevsky, paid $49 million for the building in December 1987. Mr. Gural said that the recent sale did not represent a $20 million windfall, given the ''substantial amount'' of money spent renovating the building, as well as transfer taxes and carrying costs.
Little is known about the new owners, who do business under the name of the 55 Wall Company, other than that Japanese purchasers are involved and that the group may also include Australian and Thai interests. Neither the sellers, the brokers nor the lawyer will identify them.
''I don't believe anyone is privy to the ultimate ownership of the company,'' said Robert Bell, a lawyer for the buyers, who included himself among those who do not have a complete picture of the company's composition. He did, however, stress that the building had not been bought by the Kajima Corporation of Tokyo, as had been reported in some accounts of the transaction, although he said there ''may be a link in some form or other'' between the buyers and Kajima.
About the owners' regard for 55 Wall Street, Mr. Bell was more explicit. ''They're in love with the building,'' he said. ''They think it's a fine structure, a fine piece of Americana. They intend to maintain it. They certainly have no intention of demolishing it or in any way altering it. And they have no intention of selling it.''
''It was bought more for the magnificence of the structure than for anything else,'' Mr. Bell said, although he added that the economics of the transaction were ''better than most of the deals that are being done now,'' given what the building will yield in income.
''THE Japanese have paid very, very high prices for properties in New York and other American cities in the recent past,'' said Irwin Shapiro of McDonagh Real Estate and Development, who, with Thomas McDonagh, brokered the 55 Wall Street deal. ''To the American real estate community, some of the deals they've made look ridiculous. But only time will tell. Maybe they know something we don't. Any company with that kind of buying power is not stupid. Maybe it behooves us to wait and see.''
Any contemplation of 55 Wall Street certainly invites the long view. ''If the walls could talk in this building,'' said Mark Sullivan, the chief engineer, ''they would have some stories to tell.''
Construction of the Merchants' Exchange was completed in 1842, to designs by Isaiah Rogers. In the 1860's, the structure was pressed into service as the Custom House and then purchased outright by the Federal Government for $1 million.
With the prospect of a new Custom House on Bowling Green, the Government sold the building to the National City Bank in 1899, for $3.3 million, although it did not move out for another eight years.
In December 1908, after McKim, Mead & White's addition was completed, 55 Wall Street reopened, with the grand Exchange Hall remodeled as an even more ornate Banking Room. Upstairs were City Bank headquarters and the offices of its longtime law firm, Shearman & Sterling.
The bank, which evolved into the First National City Bank of New York, kept its headquarters at 55 Wall until 1961, when it moved to 399 Park Avenue, between 53d and 54th Streets. It held on to 55 Wall, however, and still has a branch operation there, now under the Citibank name.
The building's air rights were sold in 1983 to George Klein, who was developing the 60 Wall Street tower across the street. Four years later, Shearman & Sterling moved out of 55 Wall Street and Citibank sold it.
Mr. Gural said he and his partners intended to flip 55 Wall Street. ''During the period we had the building under contract,'' he said, ''the Wall Street crash occurred. After that, we felt that the market was too unsettled to flip it. So we elected to buy it and lease it up and then decide what to do.''
They managed to lure several tenants, by far the largest of which is the law firm of Milgrim Thomajan & Lee, which was then in the Chrysler Building and looking for new offices in mid-Manhattan, without much luck.
''SPACE was inhospitable,'' said Roger M. Milgrim, a member of the firm. ''Modern office buildings often lack charm and character. The rents were staggering and we felt that we'd rather send our children and grandchildren to college than the landlord's.''
At 55 Wall Street, the lawyers found space for $23 a square foot, as opposed to $50 or $55 elsewhere. They kept some of the cherry doors and oak wainscoting from Shearman & Sterling days, as well as a sweeping oak staircase between the sixth and seventh floors. But the design firm of Kohn Pedersen Fox Conway also opened up the space.
Mr. Milgrim said that ''several partners were very concerned about the move downtown'' but that the firm had doubled in size since its move to Wall Street in May 1989. ''Our clients love coming here,'' he said. There are now about 125 lawyers in the firm, which built dining rooms, exercise rooms and child-care space.
''When I began practicing law in 1963,'' Mr. Milgrim recalled, ''it was considered extremely bad show for a so-called Wall Street firm to move to midtown. The earliest firms that did it - Kaye Scholer and Debevoise Plimpton - were genuinely viewed as having gone astray. Why would anyone move to midtown, since it was such a soulless, boring, sterile and arid area, compared to Wall Street?
''The answer then was very simple: They saved a fortune doing it. They were willing to go to a less satisfactory part of town to make themselves more competitive.
''Curious how the urban landscape changes, isn't it?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ionic and Corinthian colonnades march along the granite facade of 55 Wall Street. Coffered ceiling with 72-foot-high dome covers the interior banking room, left (The New York Times/Sara Krulwich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (66%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEGA INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK CO LTD (66%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (58%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (58%); CUSTOM HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCKIM MEAD & WHITE

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; SALES REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; GURAL, JEFFREY R



212 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: POSTING: Higher Limits;
Mortgage Pool

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Some New Yorkers shopping for their first home who have been unable to buy because they could not meet the qualifications for mortgages may benefit from significant relaxations in income and purchase-price limits put into effect this month by the State of New York Mortgage Agency, which issues bonds to generate a pool of money for mortgages. The agency has raised the old purchase-price limits on single-family houses by as much at $47,000 and increased some family-income limits by almost $9,000. 
A pool of $200 million is currently available for home loans carrying interest rates of 8.5 percent for fixed mortgages of 20, 25 and 30 years. The pool is sufficient to provide mortgages to 3,000 households for the purchase of a house or a cooperative or condominium apartment.
With the changes, annual income limits for single individuals and two-member families in New York City, Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties increased from $45,400 to $48,650 and limits for families of three or more members rose from $53,000 to $56,760. For Nassau and Suffolk Counties the yearly income limits went from $53,000 to $59,520 for one- and two-person households and from $61,000 to $69,440 for households of three or more.
As for the maximum prices of houses, the limits for one-family houses in New York City, Westchester, Rockland and Putnum Counties rose from $158,000 to $193,600 and those in Nassau and Suffolk Counties rose from $156,000 to $185,700. Further details are available by telephoning the agency's toll-free information number, (800) 382-HOME.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE OF NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); BONDS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D



213 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 6, Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Dairy Farmers Face A 'Roller Coaster' Year

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER

 BODY:
AFTER reaching record high levels, the price of milk received by dairy farmers in Connecticut is falling sharply. But that decline has not yet been reflected in prices to consumers.
''It's a nerve-racking situation,'' said Robert Jacquier, a dairy farmer in East Canaan, in Litchfield County, who is also a board member of Agri-Mark, one of the largest dairy cooperatives in the Northeast.
Mr. Jacquier said he was concerned about the future of dairy farming in Connecticut and the entire Northeast because of a squeeze between rising costs of production and falling prices for milk. 
Because of the declining milk prices at the farm, Mr. Jacquier and the other 630 dairy farmers in Connecticut are facing an uncertain 1990 after coming though a good year in 1989.
 
Surge in Prices
Although figures for 1989 are not yet in, farmers and farm economists agree that dairy income rose, largely because of a surge in milk prices in the second half of the year, after four consecutive years of decline.
''Our conclusion is that 1989 will be significantly better than 1988,'' said Donald G. Stitts, professor of agricultural economics at the University of Connecticut in Storrs.
Even though prices at the farm are now declining and will continue to fall through June, Professor Stitts said they would start to rise again in the second half of the year. ''On the average, 1990 should be about the same as last year,'' he said.
 
Falling Cash Receipts
In 1988, the last year for which complete figures are available, cash receipts for the state's dairy farms fell to $73 million, down from $78 million in 1987, $81 million in 1986 and $86 million in 1985, according to the New England Agricultural Statistics Service in Concord, N.H.
''The dairy industry had a good year in 1989 but is being battered again so far in 1990,'' said the State Commissioner of Agriculture, Kenneth B. Andersen.
He compared dairy-farm income to a roller-coaster ride, with sharp ups and downs, largely beyond the control of the dairy farmers.
The farm price of milk in Connecticut and other states is determined by national market forces, basically by the price of cheese at auction in Wisconsin, the nation's leading milk state.
 
Distance From Boston
In Connecticut, the price is adjusted slightly by the distance a farm is from Boston, the headquarters of the New England Milk Marketing Order, a Federal agency that regulates the sale of milk to processors in the area, and by milk's butterfat content. The agency sets a minimum price for milk monthly; but in recent months, many processors in the Northeast have been paying a premium over the minimum because of a shortage of milk.
Another factor, a strong demand for cheese nationally, caused the price paid in December and January to northwestern Connecticut farmers to rise to $16.34 for 100 pounds of milk with 3.5 percent butterfat (or 33.8 cents a quart).
But when the demand for cheese dropped early this year, the price fell to $15.64 in March and is expected to drop to $12.68 by June, dairy economists said.
''I would say that 1990 is going to be a very difficult year for dairy farmers,'' said Norma O'Leary, president of the Connecticut Farm Bureau. Mrs. O'Leary and her husband, Ernest, are dairy farmers in Thompson.
''With prices going down and costs continuing to go up, it becomes harder and harder for farmers to survive in the dairy industry in this state,'' she said.
 
Record Retail Price
For consumers, the decline in farm prices has not yet shown up on the retail level, with prices last week even higher than last year. In December, the State Department of Agriculture reported a record retail price of a gallon of milk with 4 percent butterfat at between $2.25 and $2.59.
Since then, the price to consumers has continued to rise. Following a market survey on Monday, the market reporter for the Department of Agriculture, Jane Murdock, said she found gallons of milk ranging from $2.53 to $2.74 and half-gallons from $1.43 to $1.49.
But some convenience stores are advertising a gallon of milk with 1 percent butterfat as low as $1.99.
Milk is one of Connecticut's major products, with dairy farms forming a large component of the state's agriculture, ranking behind greenhouse and nursery products and eggs in annual sales. In 1988, greenhouse products accounted for 30 percent of all agricultural sales in the state, eggs 22 percent and milk 19 percent.
 
$478 Million Income
In its latest survey, the Regional Statistics Service reported a gross income of $478 million for all Connecticut farms in 1988, up from $463 millon the year before; expenses of $299 million, up from $292 million, and a net income of $179 million, up from $171 million.
Among Connecticut's major crops, it listed cash receipts from farm marketing: nursery and greenhouse, $116 million; eggs, $82 million; milk, $73 million; tobacco, $20 million; cattle and calves, $13 millon; vegetables, $12 millon; apples, $10 million; hay, $8 million, and sweet corn, $5 millon.
It put the number of farms in Connecticut at 4,000, but most of those were hobby and or part-time farms, with afarm income of less than $10,000 a year. The commercial farms, those that have a cash income of $10,000 or more from their crops each year, numbered 1,487.
 
500 Cows
In East Canaan, Mr. Jacquier and his family operate a large commercial farm, milking 500 cows. His home farm covers 120 acres, but he rents 600 acres more to grow crops to feed the cows.
''Over the last few years, dairy farmers have been squeezed by low prices and rising costs,'' he said. ''As a result, many have not replaced or repaired their buildings and equipment. And taxes have increased; there has been a tremendous increase in insurance, and fuel and fertilizer costs are going up, too. I see many more dairy farms going out of business.''
But he is optimistic about the future of his farm. ''We are fortunate,'' he said. ''We have grandsons to carry on.''

GRAPHIC: graph showing sales of dairy products for the year 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); EAST CANAAN (CONN)

SUBJECT: MILK; PRICES FARMERS & RANCHERS (93%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (92%); DAIRY FARMING (92%); FOOD PRICES (92%); MILK (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AUCTIONS (78%); CHEESE (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (73%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (73%); STATISTICS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD; JACQUIER, ROBERT ROBERT JACQUIER (56%); 



214 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 6, Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign to Attract New Business

BYLINE: By Tessa Melvin

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
FOUR prominent developers are asking the county to contribute funds to their $1 million marketing campaign to attract new businesses to Westchester.
Hoping to fill a growing number of empty office buildings in the county, each developer has contributed $50,000 and has promised to help raise another $600,000. H. Guy Leibler, president of the Schulman Realty Group, called their campaign ''an opportunity to keep the glass full; to do that, you have to bring in new business.''
The other three developers are Lee Neibart, executive vice president of the Robert Martin Company; Jon Halpern, vice president of development for Halpern Enterprises, and Louis R. Cappelli, general partner of Saturn Construction Company. 
 
O'Rourke Asks for $200,000
County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke has asked the Board of Legislators to approve a $200,000 contribution to the development campaign. Citing the economic slowdown, Mr. O'Rourke said it was ''critical for Westchester to market itself aggressively.''
Unless the county can stimulate its economy, Mr. O'Rourke told the legislators, ''the domino effect of a collapsing region will affect us.''
The request is being considered by the Board's Budget and Appropriations Committee. It has asked Margaret S. Soter, the county's Director of Commerce and Constituent Affairs, to explain the county's request to the committee at its meeting on Thursday.
''Our economy is closely tied to New York City,'' said Katherine S. Carsky, the committee's chairwoman. ''What makes us think that if a business is leaving the city because of high taxes and a manpower shortage, they will stop in Westchester? These questions must be addressed.''
The money would be drawn from a special reserve fund dedicated to settling tax claims, Mrs. Carsky said. ''We intend to look at this proposal very closely,'' she added.
 
A List of the Indicators
If approved, the appropriation would be the largest contribution of county tax money ever offered to market Westchester business, according to county officials.
''We have to be realistic,'' Mr. O'Rourke said last week. ''The whole Northeast is in a downtrend. In Westchester, the sales-tax revenue is down. There is increased vacancy in our offices, business travel is down and new construction has slowed. Those are all indicators that the time to do something about it is here.''
Office-vacancy rates in the county over the last year reached 20 percent, the 17th highest rate in the country. That figure does not truly measure the amount of ''quality space'' available, Mr. Leibler suggested. Noting that his company's buildings have an 11 percent vacancy rate, he said, ''Five years ago that figure stood at 2 percent, so the current situation is clearly unsatisfactory.''
S. J. Schulman, president of the Westchester County Association, said the county's economy was ''the victim of uncontrolled regional, state and national factors.'' He cited cutbacks at companies with headquarters in Westchester, as well as a downturn in construction work, as examples of the current economic climate.
 
Cuts in Staff Are Noted
A survey released by the Westchester County Association last fall said that in the last three years, six of the county's 10 biggest corporations have reduced their work forces, including International Business Machines, General Motors, Reader's Digest, Kraft, Con Edison and Pepsico.
Despite these reductions, total employment has remained steady and unemployment - at 3.5 percent - remains low.
''There really isn't a crisis here in Westchester,'' said Connie Freid, director of the county's Office of Economic Development, whose office will help direct the marketing campaign. ''We are saying, let's get our act together before there is a crisis. The office buildings are there. Let's fill them up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (71%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT MARTIN CO (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHULMAN REALTY GROUP; MARTIN, ROBERT, CO; HALPERN ENTERPRISES; SATURN CONSTRUCTION CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; FINANCES REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SALES TAX (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); LABOR SHORTAGES (63%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA; LEIBLER, H GUY; NEIBART, LEE; HALPERN, JON; CAPPELLI, LOUIS R ANDREW P O'ROURKE (82%); 



215 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12, Column 5; Education Life

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: FLASHCARD

 BODY:
A RECENT report from the Economic Policy Institute says the United States spends less on primary and secondary education than most other industrialized nations. The institute, a research organization in Washington, D.C., compared the percentage of national income spent during 1985 on education from preprimary through high school in 16 nations, including most of Western Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and the United States. The figure for the United States was 4 percent, less than the spending levels for 11 other countries. If the spending figures are adjusted for the size of the school-age population in each country, only Australia and Ireland spent less than the United States on education from preprimary to 12th grade. - Economic Policy Institute

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE; 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FEDERAL AID (US); EDUCATION (PRIMARY); EDUCATION (SECONDARY) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); 



216 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 5; Education Life

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: FLASHCARD

 BODY:
IN 1985, 5 percent of the United States population was enrolled in some form of higher education, at least twice the percent of any other industrialized nation except Canada. - Economic Policy Institute

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PUBLIC POLICY (85%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY (82%); 



217 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 29, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: A SPECIAL REPORT: Numbers Please!;
Body Heat

BYLINE: By Calvin Sims

 BODY:
PUBLIC SCHOOLS in Buffalo are so overcrowded that until the city gets the money to build additional space, teachers must conduct classes in auditoriums, cafeterias, gymansiums, storage spaces and rooms leased from nearby Roman Catholic schools.
In Los Angeles, about 24,000 students are being bused each day, not because of a mandate to desegregate but because there is no room for them at their home schools. And the number of older and part-time students, especially women over 25, is growing so rapidly at the California State University at Northridge that demand for child-care services increased 20 percent last year.
Public school districts and universities nationwide are both witnessing a demographic explosion in their student populations, fueled by a rising number of annual births, a huge wave of immigration and an influx of older and part-time college students.
The deluge of new students - many of whom need special language classes, child-care services and financial aid - is creating a critical shortage of classroom space, qualified instructors and resources that education officials are trying to supply through a variety of new programs and services. 
But many experts in the demographics of education say such programs must ultimately fail. The nation's education system, they argue, is not equipped to accommodate the diverse needs of a student population that is expected to increase 10 percent by the year 2000 at the elementary, secondary and university levels.
''There's going to be a great flood of students at all grade levels throughout this decade and unless we build bigger schools, hire more teachers and get more money, I don't think we will be able to educate them properly,'' said Vance Grant, a specialist at the National Center for Education Statistics, a division of the Education Department.
 
10 Percent Increase in 10 Years
The numbers speak for themselves. The total enrollment in public and private elementary and secondary schools is expected to reach 49.7 million in 1998, a 10 percent increase from 45.4 million in 1988, according to a report by the Education Statistics Center. By the year 2000, the number of students from kindergarten through the 12th grade will be 49.5 million. Total enrollment decreased steadily from 1975 to 1984, reaching a low of 45 million, a reflection of the decline in the school-age population. But as the children of the baby-boom generation entered school, enrollment shot up.
The changing demographics pose new challenges for districts that contended with declining enrollments in the 1970's and must now prepare for a boom in elementary- and secondary-school students in the 1990's. To accommodate new students, officials are reopening schools closed several years ago, switching to year-round school schedules, squeezing more pupils into classrooms, busing students to less-crowded schools, setting up portable classrooms in playground space and recruiting teachers, especially those who are bilingual. Hit hardest by the growth in student populations will be the Southern and Western portions of the nation, which have expanding immigrant populations and expanding economies. Western states, like California, Nevada and New Mexico, will witness a 12 percent rise in total enrollment of elementary and secondary students. In the South, where enrollment is expected to rise 6 percent, states like Florida, Georgia and Maryland will grow the fastest.
 
Los Angeles Feeling the Crunch
No city is feeling the effects of the student body boom like Los Angeles, which last year enrolled 15,000 new public school students, 11,000 of whom were at the elementary level. With many of its 600 elementary, junior and senior high schools at more than 100 percent capacity, the Los Angeles School District recently adopted a year-round schedule at more than 100 schools; the remainder are expected to switch to some type of year-round program by next year.
Still, Los Angeles schools remain overcrowded, and the district has been forced to try a more controversial solution - busing. Every day about 24,000 of the district's 610,000 students are bused throughout the vast Los Angeles region because there is no space for them at their community schools.
Most of these students are immigrants who need help with English. But they often find there are too few bilingual instructors to teach them when they arrive at their destination. About 61 percent of the district's students are Hispanic, 16 percent are black, 15 percent are white, and the remainder are Asian or Pacific Islanders.
''We are coping the best way we know how, but you have to realize that much of the busing is only a temporary solution until we build more schools and hire more teachers,'' said Joyce Peyton, an administrator in the district's priority-housing department, which is responsible for providing each student with a seat.
The school district plans to build 24 new schools by 1995, through a $571 million bond issue that comes up in June. It recently began a recruitment program for bilingual teachers, who are paid as much as $5,000 a year above the starting salary of $27,300.
 
Nationwide Enrollment Increases
Many of Los Angeles's problems are being faced by school districts nationwide, where enrollment from kindergarten through eighth grade is projected to rise to 35.2 million by 1996, from 32.4 million in 1988, and to end the decade slightly lower, at 34.7 million. At grades 9 through 12, enrollment peaked at 15.7 million in 1976, declining 16 percent, to 13 million, by 1988. It is expected to decline 3 percent more by the end of this year, to 12.6 million. But enrollment in grades 9 through 12 will rise to 14.8 million by the year 2000, an 18 percent increase from 1990, reflecting a significant increase in the number of 14-to-17-year-olds.
Schools in Buffalo have seen a 7.8 percent increase in students in the last year because of the growing number of baby-boomer children and an influx of Puerto Rican students whose parents migrated to the area after Hurricane Hugo laid waste to part of the island last fall.
School officials say it will cost about $700 million to build an estimated 380 additional classrooms to provide for these youngsters. ''Our local community does not have the the capital dollars to meet our needs,'' said Joseph T. Murray, Buffalo's associate superintendent for instructional services. ''The only hope would be a bond issue or help from the Federal Government by having it direct some of the savings from the defense cuts to education.''
The Federal education report, titled ''Projections of Education Statistics,'' estimates that enrollment in institutions of higher education will increase from 12.8 million in 1988 to 13.4 million by the year 2000. The shift is attributable in part to rising enrollment rates among 18-to-22-year-olds and an increase in the number of older and part-time students.
To meet the needs of older students, colleges and universities are scheduling more classes in the late afternoons and evenings, giving students who must work during the day a greater variety of classes from which to choose. Some schools, like the California State University system, have also extended their day-care facilities. Other schools are allowing older students to exchange their life experiences for college credits toward a degree.
 
American University in
Washington, D.C., offers a life-experience program in which older students write essays that explain and analyze important events in their lives. The essays are reviewed by professors who specialize in fields corresponding to the events and award credit based on the experience.
It is a daunting task, according to Lorraine Newlon, director of admissions and records at California State at Northridge. ''The traditional college student is giving way to older students and students returning for second dgrees,'' she said. ''At the same time, we are expecting a wave of new students, most of whom are minorities. We are devising programs to meet the needs of both groups, a task that is not the easiest to perform.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: total enrollment in U.S. schools, by grade level, 1975-2000 (projected) (Source: National Center for Education Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES SCHOOL DISTRICT (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENROLLMENT; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); STATISTICS (75%); CHILD CARE (75%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); MODULAR SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); IMMIGRATION (54%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN



218 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 27, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: A SPECIAL REPORT: Numbers Please!;
Moving Targets

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus

 BODY:
The educational-industrial complex is regularly counting the students of America (and these days that's anyone between ages 3 and 93).
After all, the numbers of students, their ages, ethnic or racial backgrounds, home states, graduation dates and rates are what make education policy go round - and round again, given the unreliability of some predictions.
Still, communities, colleges and the country at large depend on these numbers to guide education initiatives, budgets, curriculum and planning. The following pages focus on the resulting numbers game, its winners and losers.
Remedial statistics, anyone? 
STUDENTS ARE a resource, a burden and a market. That is why so many people want the definitive profile of the national student body, a week from now and a generation from now.
Everything from curriculum to manufacturing schedules depends on it.
So a lot of people are practicing some variety of demography: economists and sociologists, state education planners and village school boards, legislators and cap-and-gown makers. They project body counts and try to calculate the ages, ethnicity and location of the bodies. One problem with this exercise is that the variables seem limitless, and ever-changing. Fertility rates zigzag. Local economies bloom and fade. People move, in what seems to be no orderly fashion. And the information that is easy to come by - say, how many 18-year-olds the nation will have in 1998 - says little to school planners in Indianapolis or Biloxi, Miss.
''The education statistics - the teachers, enrollment, graduates, expenditure levels - are all involved with what goes on in society,'' said Debra E. Gerald, a statistician who is in charge of the projections published by the Federal Education Department's National Center for Education Statistics.
In any one place, what goes on in society can produce large dislocations: Los Angeles, caught between a statewide shortage of school construction money and a population boom in the inner city, has started year-round schedules because even the mobile classrooms have no more space. In northeast Queens, in New York City, 1 in 4 students in District 26 schools is Asian, up from 1 in 20 seven or eight years ago; every reading teacher must now be certified in English as a second language. In New Jersey, several state colleges that once enrolled 10,000 students now have 6,000 - and the problem of shrinking some programs.
Through a nationwide lens, these glitches resolve into a single concern that has become more compelling as the baby bust grows up and the baby boomlet enters school: that schools turn out enough educated and educable young adults for the next few decades.
''From an economic perspective, you always want to get the most productivity,'' said Lewis C. Solmon, dean of the Graduate School of Education at the University of California at Los Angeles and author of a widely used economics text. ''It becomes even more urgent when we don't have that many people to pick from.''
The 1980's were an interesting chapter, statistically speaking. Forecasters could project elementary and secondary enrollments fairly accurately, but they generally underestimated high school graduation rates. Knowing that the 18-to-24-year-old population would dip about 10 percent during the decade, they projected a decrease in college enrollments. One academic study foresaw a decline of more than 40 percent. Instead, according to the Education Department, the total between 1980 and 1988 rose almost 8 percent.
Not that demographers hadn't been wrong before. Birthrates, for example: Census Bureau forecasters missed the baby boom, seeing it as a blip of catch-up childbearing after World War II. They were baffled by the first years of the baby bust, which brought a decline in births roughly from the mid-60's through the 70's. They overestimated and then underestimated birthrates among women born in the 1950's. The number of babies born in 1987 and 1988, for example, significantly exceeded 1984 and 1985 Census Bureau projections, which means that schools do not have much more than a five-year headway on kindergarten enrollments.
 
College Enrollments Exceed Forecasts
Higher-education enrollments, at least over the long range, have regularly exceeded Government projections. In 1964, when the Education Department started publishing projections, it forecast a total college enrollment of 7.9 million in 1973; the actual enrollment that year was 9.6 million. In 1979, the center's intermediate projection for 1988 (the agency was by then issuing three sets, based on differing sets of assumptions) was 11 million; the actual head count was 13 million.
The groups that unexpectedly showed up in college in the 1980's were led by older students, particularly divorced women. Among those who did not show up were large numbers of black and Hispanic youths: their relative numbers in the 18-to-24-year-old projection are up, but their proportions in college are down.
Another trend few foresaw was that as the college population shrank, its enrollment rates grew. The ''cohort effect'' is largely the theory of Richard A. Easterlin, an economist at the University of Southern California. As he charts postwar generations, their size and college-enrollment rates generally vary inversely, in part because fewer children means more opportunity for each, since colleges prefer to maintain enrollment levels. Mr. Easterlin and two colleagues wrote in 1981 that the 1980's would see an enrollment increase.
Another who was on the right track 10 years ago was Carol Frances, a Washington-based economist and consultant to many higher-education groups. As chief economist for the American Council on Education, comprised of four-year colleges and universities, she wrote that enrollment could rise 3.5 percent during the 1980's, if colleges could take advantage of a growing economy and recruit promising nontraditional groups, like older women.
That is exactly what colleges did. Where there were concentrations of older working people, there was expansion of adult programs and heavy advertising. New York University's School of Continuing Education, for example, tried direct mail, with postcards reading, ''How to Turn a Change in Your Life Into the Chance of Your Life.'' Enrollment has risen 50 percent since 1978.
Similar efforts at many schools succeeded with high school audiences, too. And when the colleges' recruitment binge paid off, the forecasts of enrollment declines naturally turned out to be wrong.
''Every time you make a projection and people pick up on it, they start reacting to it, and their reaction changes what happens,'' said Robin Etter Zuniga, who directs projections of high school graduates for the Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education, in Boulder, Colo. ''If institutions are concerned about the decline, they will take steps to do something about it that will change the projections.''
''Sure, we missed things,'' she added. ''But we can't say that if you get better data or fine-tune your methods, they would give you better projections.''
 
More Like Economic Predictions
Ms. Gerald said, however, that forecasting had improved since she joined the center more than a decade ago, when many predictions were based on extrapolation methods. Now, she says, models account for variables like unemployment, making the whole enterprise less like an actuary's and more like an economist's. When a model goes wrong, the center tries to identify faulty assumptions; then it revises other projections.
More specific methods can be devised for more specific inquiries. In Seattle, for instance, where public school enrollment has declined from 99,000 in 1963 to 41,000 this year, district planners wanted to know where to close schools and how to anticipate patterns of demand for specialized or magnet schools and transfers to achieve racial balance. Demographers at the University of Washington divided the city into geographic units of 50 to 100 students, analyzed past patterns of attendance and transfers in each unit and projected demand for staff, buildings and special programs.
In designing the desegregation plan that took effect last year, the model was indispensable. The district also closed five more schools last year, and used the demographic analysis to redraw school boundaries.
Colleges want more details on prospective students. James J. Scannell, a vice president at the University of Rochester in New York, who has consulted to many colleges on recruiting and enrollment, said that to most institutions, ''demographics'' means market research. College administrators are ''not as sophisticated as Xerox'' in this regard, he said, ''but 20 or 25 years ago, 'demographics' was not a word in anyone's vocabulary in higher education because it was a boom time.''
The College Board, for one, has met this thirst for information with a computer program that gives subscribers data on 304 geographic markets. For any market, the program can say, for example, how many Hispanic S.A.T.-takers live there and which colleges receive their scores. A more refined version is coming.
It is not clear how much the forecasts of decline, and the actual declines in elementary and secondary schools, contributed to paring state and Federal education budgets. It is clear that education advocates did not like the message.
 
'They're Trying to Hold Down Budgets'
''Generally, the people who make their living making these projections - or at least the people who consume the information - are in the budget-making process,'' Ms. Frances said. ''They're generally agents of an administration facing budget constraints, so they're trying to hold down budgets.''
Now, while the budgets remain about the same, the population is bulging in different places. Elementary-school enrollments, which bottomed out in 1984, are climbing slowly and are projected to peak in 1996. The peak in high school enrollment is expected four years later. According to the Federal Government, the total increase from 1990 to 1999 will be 7 percent to 8 percent.
These national data are not very useful to local districts. But they can provide rough guidance to Federal teacher-training programs, textbook publishers and other large-scale consumers of demographic data.
Planning for college enrollments is trickier. Ms. Frances says demand for retraining displaced workers can increase enrollments in the 1990's, but only if colleges accommodate this uncollegiate group. Lewis Solmon at U.C.L.A. forecasts a decline. The three Federal Government projections range from a 3 percent decrease to a 12 percent increase between 1988 and 2000.
The consensus is that the older-student boom is ending as the pool of adults most likely to return to college has been heavily tapped. Total enrollments are expected to dip and then rise slightly. There is also agreement, and worry, that an increasing proportion of 18-year-olds will be unprepared for college-level work.
''We could turn the colleges into massive high schools,'' Dean Solmon said, ''but it wouldn't serve any social need. And it would be awfully expensive.''
The alternative, educators generally agree, is to invest more in lower grades and direct social spending to children. One advocate of this approach is Harold L. Hodgkinson, director of the Center for Demographic Policy at the Institute for Educational Leadership, a Washington research group. Dr. Hodgkinson told a House Education and Labor subcommittee last month that Head Start was the best way to insure that children from low-income families finished high school, given the differences in achievement 10 to 20 years later between Head Start children and control groups.
Dr. Hodgkinson is worried about the low-income constituency. Nearly a quarter of American children under age 6 live in poverty, he said, which means they are especially likely to have health and learning problems. He also cited projections showing that nearly all the increase in the school population is coming from racial minorities with much higher than average poverty rates. That prospect raises different kinds of demographic questions, and everyone agrees that they are much harder than crunching numbers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing; Graph of percentage difference between estimates nine years in advance by the National Center for Education Statistics for total enrollment in college and the actual number of enrollments, 1978-88 (Source: National Center for Education Statistics) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%); BILOXI, MS, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (77%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); CURRICULA (90%); STATISTICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); FERTILITY RATES (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (67%); WRITERS (63%); CITY LIFE (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA



219 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 36, Column 2; Education Life

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: THE SPRING REPORT;
Spawning Grounds

BYLINE: By Eric N. Berg

 BODY:
VIVIAN PALEY'S research is about as fundamental as education research gets, and original enough to win her a MacArthur Foundation grant, the so-called genius awards: she is trying to teach children to think - to come up with an idea and develop it in a logical way.
Her experiment has youngsters turning their ideas into skits. Her tools are the children; her laboratory, the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools, comprising a lower, middle and high school. Founded by the educator and philosopher John Dewey in 1896, the schools are the ''granddaddy'' of all such proving grounds for teaching methods and curriculums.
''I equate lab schools with chemistry labs or biology labs in the natural sciences,'' said John Johnson, executive secretary of the National Association of Laboratory Schools, based in Indiana, Pa. ''They are spawning grounds for new ideas and new pedagogy.'' 
Today, those spawning grounds are alive with ideas, as lab schools, which have long suffered budget cuts and lack of interest, enjoy a comeback.
Carnegie-Mellon University's lab school is studying how Macintosh computers can help develop a preschooler's sense of shape and color. The lab school at the State University College at Buffalo is focusing on new teaching methods for brain-damaged children. The Illinois State University at Normal is examining how technology, physical therapy and motivation theory can be combined to benefit learning-disabled students, while the school at the University of Hawaii is trying to make science instruction more alluring by including health, technology and the environment in the curriculum.
 
Building Self-Confidence
Studies are also under way to help teachers build students' self-confidence, as at the University of Chicago laboratory school, where first-graders are encouraged to write - and never mind their incorrect spelling, grammar and syntax. ''Lab schools are a volcano that is showing signs of puffing,'' said Mr. Johnson.
Those signs are difficult to document, but suggestive:
* The number of lab schools recently started increasing. It now stands at about 100.
* In the last year, at least three universities expressed interest in starting lab schools: the University of Alabama at Birmingham, the University of British Columbia at Vancouver and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
* At the National Association of Laboratory Schools, the number of institutional members has risen to 65 schools, from 55 three years ago. The number of faculty members has jumped to 2,000, from 1,700. More than 150 lab-school officials attended the association's annual conference recently, up from 100 last year.
* Nationally, lab schools -particularly those specializing in elementary education - are reporting long waiting lists for admission.
Laboratory schools flourished through the post-World War II period, only to slump in the 1970's and early 1980's. On college campuses, where most of the schools are situated, administrators appreciated their purpose, but often viewed them as costly alternatives to what could just as easily be achieved in public schools. Indeed, most graduate schools of education still use public schools to give would-be teachers classroom experience and to enable them to try new teaching methods.
 
Different Backgrounds
Many teachers are going into schools where students are of broadly different economic and cultural backgrounds, said Beverly Carter, director of the Stanford/Schools Collaborative, a joint venture of Stanford University and surrounding school districts. ''To improve education in such a challenging environment,'' she said, ''Stanford has concluded that there is no better way to proceed than to go into the public schools.''
But with so many universities proceeding the same way, and the current increase in the number of would-be teachers, experimental elbow room in the public schools is shrinking - a possible explanation for the lab school's renaissance as both laboratory and teacher-trainee proving grounds.
Educators are also recognizing that the schools can be used to update older teachers. They note, too, that testing teaching methods in public schools has not produced the desired results, leaving lab schools as, potentially, the more powerful sources of change.
At the Chicago lab school, for example, one group of teachers was recently seen observing children as they took their turn handing out milk to classmates. By determining who finishes the job and who shares with whom, the teachers hope to understand how schools transmit values to students.
 
Make-Believe Car Trip
In another classroom, math is taught using a make-believe trip around the world in which youngsters were given a fictitious car with make-believe mileage and had to compute how far they could travel with a given amount of gasoline.
The availability of such innovative teaching persuaded Mary Rhodes to send her children to the lab school. Mrs. Rhodes, a resident of Chicago's wealthy Gold Coast district and now president of the Chicago lab school's Parents' Association, could easily have chosen other prominent private schools here. But she explained: ''There is a richness in the learning experience that you do not get elsewhere.''
The students agree. Andrea Jackson, 10 years old and a student at the Chicago lab school, said that from talking with friends at other schools, she believes lab schools give a little less homework, but that it is harder. ''The homework takes a lot of concentration,'' she said. ''Each page takes a long time to complete because you have to think about it so hard.''
Some parents take a less positive view. ''If there were a decent public school system in Chicago, I would not be sending my child to the lab school,'' said the mother of one student at the Chicago lab school, who asked that her name not be used. ''Most of us send our children there by default.''
Lab schools' flexibility can be traced in part to their status as independent, not-for-profit institutions, like that of private schools. Lab schools are not governed by an often-political board of education; rather they are run by the faculty, supervised by a board of directors and financed through tuition fees and alumni donations. Their ties to the universities are few but salient: the university's education school sends students to the lab school for teaching experience or to conduct research.
Also, like most private schools, many lab schools charge hefty tuitions and serve large numbers of professors' children. This has exposed them to charges that they are enclaves for upper-middle-income students fleeing inner-city public schools.
Nonetheless, because they draw from a larger pool of prospective students than a typical public school, and because they can be selective, lab schools tend to create a student body that, while generally well-to-do, is also ethnically and racially diverse. ''The Chicago public schools were too segregated for me,'' said Kathy Dawkins, an assistant teacher whose kindergarten at the Chicago lab school includes children from Taiwan, Nigeria, Mexico and Iran.
Despite this allure, many people think the current resurgence in lab schools may be short-lived, especially when a number of their supervisory universities are facing budget pressures that, because many lab schools are on university-owned land, could force them off the campus.
 
An Issue of Space
At the University of California at Los Angeles, the issue is space: The lab school is on nine acres of parkland on which the university wants to build. Lewis Solmon, dean of U.C.L.A.'s Graduate School of Education, has said the university is pledged to safeguarding the school's autonomy should it join the local public schools, and is seeking exemptions from state laws that might restrict its experimentation. But parents and school staff are dubious.
So are administrators at other lab schools. ''Somebody has got to be the custodian of education, keeping it alive and constantly updating it with new ideas,'' said Loretta Krause, administrator of the lab school at the University of Hawaii. ''Lab schools view themselves as that custodian.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (52%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (72%); ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (72%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (54%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CHEMISTRY (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); BUDGET CUTS (52%); BUDGETS (52%); WORLD WAR II (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); 

PERSON: BERG, ERIC N; DEWEY, JOHN



220 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 31, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: A SPECIAL REPORT: Numbers Please!;
A House Divided

BYLINE: By Anthony DePalma

 BODY:
HIGHER BIRTHRATES and a stream of new immigrants are driving up the number and proportion of black, Hispanic and Asian people in the United States so fast that soon after the year 2000 they will make up a third of the nation's students.
With their symphony of languages and cultures, these minority members, who at present total about 23 percent of all Americans, will occupy one of every three desks in America's classrooms. Their numbers will present challenges unlike anything most states have seen since the great migrations of the turn of the century. Schools will be hard pressed to prepare these Americans, many of them poor, for a more sophisticated work force. ''What's at stake,'' said Dr. John F. Noonan, president of Bloomfield College in Bloomfield, N.J., where half the 1,600 students are members of minorities, ''is the future of the country.''
The record so far is not encouraging. The 1988 study, ''One-third of a Nation,'' concluded that: ''America is moving backward - not forward - in its efforts to achieve the full participation of minority citizens in the life and prosperity of the nation.'' It concluded that since the mid-1970's minorities have become comparatively poorer and increasingly segregated in distressed, urban neighborhoods where schools sometimes harbor failure. Their financial picture grows dimmer as tuition rises leave financial aid further and further behind. 
 
Decline in the Colleges
A smaller percentage of minority members are going to college. In 1976 the percentage of black high school graduates who enrolled in college was 50.4. By 1988 it had dropped to 46.6 percent. During the same period, the college participation rate for white students rose from 53.5 percent to 58.6 percent. Hispanic students' participation also declined, but not so severely as that of blacks. In 1976 48.9 percent of Hispanic high school graduates were in college. By 1988 the figure had slipped to 47.1 percent.
In addition, blacks, especially black men, earned fewer bachelor's and master's degrees over the last decade. Fewer became teachers, which could hurt black students looking for someone to emulate.
The picture is markedly different for Asians, but even there educators see trouble. From 1976 to 1986, Asian enrollment at two- and four-year colleges increased 126 percent, and could double again over the next decade. But many of the newest and fastest-growing groups of Asian immigrants, those from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, may not be able to repeat the success of earlier immigrants. For one thing they are poorer; their rate of poverty, 35 percent, is as high as that for Puerto Ricans and Mexican-Americans. They also arrive with less preparation for learning and lower expectations.
As the number of minority students surges, demographic forecasts indicate that past problems could quickly multiply. From 1968 to 1986 Hispanic students' enrollment in public schools nationwide doubled, from 2 million to 4.1 million, while enrollment for whites dropped 16 percent. During the same period, black enrollment rose 5 percent, from 6.3 million to 6.6 million. Students from Asia, currently America's fastest-growing minority group, jumped 55 percent in the 1980's alone, from 749,000 to 1.2 million.
Already in 25 of the largest American cities and metropolitan areas, more than half the public school students come from minority groups. But also in towns and villages that 10 years ago were nearly all white, substantial and growing numbers of minority students have arrived, bearing special talents and needs.
 
Schools Being Forced to Change
They have already forced schools on all levels to change. New Rochelle, N.Y., has a new-arrivals program in two elementary schools to handle Mexican and Salvadoran immigrants. In East Orange, N.J., where schools are 98 percent black, troubled students identified as potential dropouts receive special support each week for 27 weeks, starting as early as the fourth grade. Gettysburg College, in Pennsylvania, has opened a genealogical research center specializing in slave records and uses it to attract black students.
Perhaps the most profound shift is that schools are beginning to understand that they no longer can simply label minority students Hispanic, Asian or black, making generalizations about their needs and talents. Rather they must take into account students' economic, social and education backgrounds, differentiating Cubans from Mexicans, Vietnamese from Chinese. ''It's a tremendous challenge,'' said Dr. Ronald H. Rolph, the superintendent of schools in Holland, Mich., a city of 24,000 residents on the shore of Lake Michigan.
Twenty years ago Holland was an almost completely white, Dutch Calvinist community. Today, Dr. Rolph said, 28 percent of the district's students are from minorities. Most are Mexican-Americans who traveled the migrant-worker stream from Texas and decided to settle. The others are Cambodian, Laotian and Vietnamese boat people sponsored by local religious groups.
Holland now has two bilingual programs, in Spanish and Vietnamese. College night is held in both English and Spanish. When the only high school guidance counselor left three years ago, the Holland district searched a full year for a bilingual-bicultural counselor to replace her.
 
Transforming School and Community
By their presence alone, these minority students transform a school, a district and a community. Bobby Fong, dean for the arts and humanities at Hope College in Holland, says his 5-year-old son, Jonathan, comes home from kindergarten talking about his Mexican friends and saying ''Adios, amigos.''
Dr. Fong's appointment at Hope College in itself represents a shift in attitudes. He is the first Asian-American and the first person from outside the Reformed Church to head a department at the 2,700-student Calvinist school.
Alfredo M. Gonzales, appointed assistant dean for multicultural life two years ago, said the college was hiring more minority faculty members and revising its curriculum. It probably will require all students to take courses in ethnic culture or non-Western literature before graduation.
For Hope, the demographic trends are still in the future. But at Incarnate Word College in San Antonio half the student body already is either black or Hispanic. One of the fastest-growing private colleges in the Southwest, Incarnate Word has doubled its enrollment, to 2,500, since 1985, with Hispanic students taking substantially more of the new seats than whites. The Roman Catholic college spends about $1 million a year in advertising, printing half in English and half in Spanish. It also increased its financial aid, to $2.3 million a year.
Corina Cortez of George West, Tex., is one of the students attracted to and helped by the college's new outlook. The 21-year-old senior accounting major comes from a family of five; her parents did not graduate from high school, and Spanish is spoken at home.
Miss Cortez said Incarnate Word had contacted her and invited her to the campus. Because there was so little money at home, she said she thought she might attend for one year and then go to work. ''Never in a million years did I think I'd get a degree in four years,'' she said. With financial aid from several sources she is now in her fourth year of college.
As they graduate, students like Miss Cortez leave behind an academic landscape whose changes extend beyond recruitment and financial aid. Educators are realizing that many cultures now represented in the classroom have been largely excluded from the history, arts and philosophies that students have been taught. ''Increasingly,'' said David Abalos, a professor of religious studies at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J., ''what scholars are asking is not just what history has said, but what history has not said.''
Mr. Abalos, who is Mexican-American, spent a year helping the New Jersey Department of Education develop a curriculum with a global approach to literature and world culture. Other states, including New York and Minnesota, are undertaking similar revisions.
''What's happening is deeper and wider than demographics,'' Mr. Abalos said. He noted that when American public schools were established in the 19th century, a main goal was to make immigrants good Americans, which usually meant hiding their languages, customs and religions. As classrooms fill with more people of color, Mr. Abalos believes that is no longer the case.
''We are now living in a world clearly international, clearly multicultural,'' he said. ''We now know that we don't have to be just American.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: percentage of white, black and Hispanic 18- to 24-years olds who graduated high school and attended college, 1978 vs. 1988 (Source: National Center for Education Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); POPULATION; ASIAN-AMERICANS; ENROLLMENT HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); POVERTY RATES (73%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY



221 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 18, Column 2; World of New York Magazine

LENGTH: 3084 words

HEADLINE: WHAT REALLY MAKES NEW YORK WORK: EVERYDAY NECESSITIES;
ERRANDS OF THE RICH AND FAMOUS

BYLINE: BY JOAN KRON; Joan Kron, the editor in chief of Avenue magazine, is the author of ''Ms. Faux Pas: A Non-Guide to Glitterati Manners.''

 BODY:
Lyn Revson's banker told her she was wasting her time paying her own bills, so she found Carol Wolse to do the job for her. Twice a month the New York socialite reviews and initials her bills, then puts them all in a Federal Express envelope and ships it 60 miles away to Mrs. Wolse, a Long Island housewife who used to work in a bank. Mrs. Wolse checks the bills for irregularities, writes the necessary checks and ships them back so Mrs. Revson can sign them. ''Carol has 12 years of my paid bills in filing cabinets in her garage,'' says Mrs. Revson (once the wife of Charles Revson, the founder of Revlon). And in those 12 years, Mrs. Revson and Mrs. Wolse have seldom met face to face. ''We have a wonderful relationship,'' states Lyn Revson.
Peter Duchin, the band leader, delegates many tedious chores. ''I may have done two or three errands in my life,'' he says. His driver, Slim Hyatt, who has worked for Mr. Duchin for 30 years, ''makes drop-offs and pickups all the time.'' And Dixie Taylor, Mr. Duchin's 27-year-old assistant, handles just about everything else for him and his wife, Brooke: writing notes, making appointments, renewing car registrations, arranging doctors' visits for the Duchins' five birds and five children, making sure school tuition is paid and the piano is tuned, and ordering endless gifts from the Madison Avenue Bookshop. 
''I don't get my own errands done nearly as well as I do Peter's,'' says Ms. Taylor, who reckons that on some days there are a million of them. ''I wish I had someone to run my errands,'' she says wistfully.
Errands! Those tedious, inevitable tasks. In an article entitled ''Errands,'' included in the book ''People in Places: The Sociology of the Familiar,'' Professor Martin Wenglinsky calls them ''the busywork of day-to-day existence, the time-consuming, ever present, usually dull necessities of social life that for the most part are hardly memorable in themselves.''
''Life is one big errand,'' moans Harriet Weintraub, the New York public-relations executive who handles accounts for the fashion houses of Christian Dior and Christian Lacroix. ''An errand is something that has to be done,'' says Eileen Ford, a co-owner of the model agency. ''Either you do it or you get someone else to do it. But it gets done.''
Errands can be considered the preparation and maintenance of life's activities: hosting a dinner party is an activity you are expected to do yourself - writing the invitations, doing the marketing and perhaps the cooking are the errands; going to a movie is an activity - standing in line for the ticket is an errand; attending college is an activity, sending transcripts and applications are the errands; starring in a film is an activity, picking up the award is an errand.
Professor Wenglinsky, who teaches sociology at Quinnipiac College in Hamden, Conn., defines three classes of errand. The first involves ''material wherewithal'' - personal presentation, body maintenance and setting maintenance (finding a place to live and fixing it up). The second concerns all things legal and bureaucratic - paying bills and taxes, registering to vote, getting tickets, licenses, a passport, visas, insurance, job references. Professor Wenglinsky's third category has to do with ''smoothing the course of interpersonal relations'' - keeping in touch, writing letters and thank-you notes, buying and sending gifts.
The professor's categories can also apply to one's professional life. Errands are not necessarily part of one's job description, but they are often peripherals that enable one to do one's job.
Increasingly these days, one person's errands have become another person's occupation. This may be why a sizable portion of New York City's economy is involved in service - from messenger services (listings filled almost eight pages in the 1989-90 Nynex Manhattan Yellow Pages) to personal shoppers, interior decorators, theater-ticket brokers, caterers, florists, travel agents, dog-walkers, accountants.
With their extensive interlocking social, business and charitable involvements, New York's working rich are in particular need of help, and they have ingenious systems for handling their errands, depending on staffs and all manner of services. Indeed, a good part of New York's perpetual gridlock is probably due to the army of surrogate errand-runners - searching, buying, standing in line, delivering and picking up, often in the family car. (''I'll send my driver'' - never call him a chauffeur.) One such errand-runner is Desmond Gorges, a butler who once worked for Asher Edelman, the arbitrageur, and for Sam Spiegel of Hollywood. He is an owner of Manhattan Party Planning. When asked about errands, Mr. Gorges said, ''It's hard to talk today. I'm running all over Manhattan trying to find basil for Dina Merrill. A simple errand like that and I'm going absolutely crazy.''
Evidently, the rich and famous will press anyone into errand service. Ann Charnack, who runs Out of Arcadia, a food shop in the Citicorp Center, says, ''Clients have sent everyone from a Japanese houseboy on a bike to car services, messenger services, twin housekeepers and mothers-in-law'' to pick up orders. ''Mothers love to run errands for their married sons,'' she adds. '' Especially when it comes to food.''
Roberta Morrell, president of Morrell & Company, a major wine retailer, gets her interior designer, who lives near a shoemaker, to take her shoes in for repair. He's not the only one who helps out. ''My caterer called before a party to ask if there was anything I needed,'' she recalls. ''I was out of perfume, and he miraculously had some when he arrived.'' Jon Gilman, the owner of Taste Caterers, Inc., says clients are always asking him to run errands. ''I've had a client call at 4 P.M. for a caviar cocktail party at 6 P.M. and ask me to go to Tiffany's and buy a special serving piece.''
Publicists get a lot of special requests. ''People in the service business are experts at errands because they know how to get anything done,'' says Sam Rudy, a senior associate with Shirley Herz Associates, which does entertainment publicity. ''And that means anything. Find a doctor for an out-of-town performer, get an engraver to do something for Tyne Daly on the opening night of 'Gypsy.' Requests for theater tickets are our biggest errands. Joe Baum [the food impresario of the Rainbow Room] wanted tickets to 'Other People's Money' for his wife's birthday. It must have taken a dozen phone calls to run this little errand,'' Mr. Rudy says, but he got the tickets.
''I use girls from Chapin, my alma mater, as gofers,'' says Dean Patterson Bauer, president of her own residential renovation firm, referring to the private school on Manhattan's Upper East Side. ''They can do tons of handy things - return books, make phone calls, pick up produce.''
Camille Lavington, an international communications consultant, uses executives between jobs to pick up her phone messages and sort her mail when she goes out of the country on business. ''You get a very high-level job performance, she says. ''These people are very senior in their wisdom and judgment.''
Like many executives, Jack Avrett, the chief executive officer of Avrett, Free & Ginsberg, the advertising agency, relies on his office staff for errand assistance. ''I leave every morning with a shopping bag full of instructions from my wife, and my secretary takes care of them,'' he says. But neither his wife nor his secretary chooses his ties. For that, Mr. Avrett turns to his partner, the agency's creative director and president, Frank Ginsberg. Says the satisfied Mr. Avrett: ''Frank has a spectacular eye. He art directs my life.''
The banker Mary G. Roebling - the first woman governor of the American Stock Exchange - gets by with a little help from a friend, and several executive assistants. The friend shops for her clothes. Says Mrs. Roebling, ''She has known me a long time. More than 20 years. She knows my taste exactly. She hardly ever misses.''
Henry Jaglom, a director noted for his idiosyncratic films about the lives of himself and people he knows, depends on a former girlfriend, Barbara Flood, to handle all the esthetic decisions pertaining to his New York apartment. Miss Flood is a personal shopper, and, besides knowing his taste, she doesn't object to the hours Mr. Jaglom, an insomniaclikes to keep: ''Everything must be delivered and installed between midnight and 4 A.M.,'' she says, recalling the night last year when she brought over a whole roomfull of small pieces of furniture and bric-a-brac in a fleet of taxis because she couldn't find a trucker who would work so late.
Fitness trainers are frequently enlisted for errands. ''You can't believe what clients will ask you to do on your way to their homes,'' says Timothy Callaghan, who trains many socialites and film stars. ''One woman asked me to pick up cigarettes and four pounds of pastries from Dumas. I've also had to stop by the cleaners, drop off library books and park the Rolls. You name the errand, I've run it. One woman had me walk her two Irish wolfhounds to the vet and pick up her parrot.''
But one good turn deserves another. Often, Mr. Callaghan's clients help him with his errands. ''When I told a client who wanted an extra lesson I was having a dinner party and didn't have time to shop, she sent over her chef who prepared a fantastic meal for five guests. She let me pick the wine from her cellar. And her housekeeper cleaned up for me afterward,'' he says. Another client lent him her laundress for a month. ''I was getting my shoelaces washed and my T-shirts pressed. It saved me countless errand hours.''
Other people depend on the kindness of strangers. ''There's a little deli near where I live,'' says Joan McGivern, an associate of Ellen McCluskey, Inc., a design firm. ''They will accept anything c.o.d. It's like having live-in help. The owner is my other mother. She sells me postage stamps, cashes my checks and even pays the maid.''
Trust is the key to errands, says Ms. McGivern. ''The number of errands you can have done by others depends on the amount of trust you are willing to place in someone else's hands, and the importance of the outcome. Must it be perfect? Then get perfect hands to do it for you, or do it yourself.''
But sometimes more than simple trust is needed. The legal, pseudolegal and bureaucratic aspects of errands often require expertise. One can't ask a Chapin student to assume power of attorney.
Twelve years ago, a well-known theatrical producer wanted someone to take care of everything in her life while she wrote her memoirs, so she advertised for a woman who was literate, intelligent, well organized and discreet. Ruthe Peyser, who had run a domestic employment service for years on Long Island, answered the ad. Her children grown, she and her husband had just moved into the city. ''The vibes were right,'' says Mrs. Peyser. ''She was an outspoken woman who had difficulty holding onto cooks, maids, secretaries. I took over getting staff. Then trust funds, dealing with banks, a gift for her sister in California.''
Eventually things ran so smoothly that Mrs. Peyser was seldom needed. A lawyer friend suggested she take on other clients and call herself a ''personal affairs administrator.'' She has since worked for many people, mostly wealthy widows who don't know how to handle their finances. Besides the financial work, she has been called on to attend co-op meetings, supervise parties, deal with art appraisers, hire and fire help. She is so trusted that clients often give her power of attorney and make her executor of their wills. Mrs. Peyser, who is not taking any new clients, admits that these errands make her privy to ''everything'' about her clients - even about when they're short of cash. ''I could never tell anyone their spending is out of hand, but I might say 'We currently don't have enough money in our checking account.' It's their money, they're entitled to spend it.''
Personal assistants like Mrs. Peyser and Dixie Taylor have become ubiquitous. Everyone, from socialites such as Anne Bass and Jayne Wrightsman to the advertising executive Jerry Della Femina and his wife, Judy Licht, the Channel 5 reporter, seem to have them Their duties, of course, depend on their employers. John V. Fahey, Tyne Daly's personal assistant, says the star of ''Gypsy'' ''does her own grocery shopping and her own laundry drop.'' But he still has his share of errands. ''I shop for stationery, address envelopes, and go to the post office and stand in line,'' he says. Then there are the celebrations. ''When we did our 200th performance'' - on the road and in New York - ''I got 200 white balloons and went to Shubert Alley and released them. Tyne is a very generous person. There are always several birthdays in a cast of dozens I get little cards and gifts for her. I shop for tea bags and spring water to keep in her dressing room; light bulbs for her chandeliers at home; I had a chair seat caned, and for opening night in New York she bought antique silver jewelry that I had to get polished and engraved and put on a chain.'' (Apparently Sam Rudy helped him.) But Mr. Fahey refuses to waste the star's money. ''When Tyne says, 'Get a case of Moet brut,' I get a kick out of finding the best deal.'' His hardest errand was shopping for panty hose, ''the kind in a large egg. I had never done that before.''
For many people, systems are the key to errand competence. Bruce Bierman, an interior designer whose office is in the same building as his home, has major grocery shopping done for him once a month. From a master list of 132 items, including light bulbs, sugar, bread, soap, etc., his assistant checks off what's needed. The housekeeper comes in three days a week, one of which is devoted to household errands: ''She'll pick up a light dimmer or have the vacuum repaired,'' says Mr. Bierman. ''My bookkeeper will pay my bills, give me an allowance and take care of charitable contributions.''
Even the purchase of such personal items as clothing can be systematized. A prominent woman banker buys one good French designer suit and has it cloned in several colors in Hong Kong where she used to live and still goes on business. She does the same thing with blouses. And she buys hosiery by the three dozen and always wears the same shade and quality.
Ms. Thomas has systems for gifts too. ''I always send the same wedding gift to everyone,'' she says. Something she owns herself that can be ordered by phone: Tiffany's hollow-stem champagne flutes.
Eileen Ford believes in delegating gift wrapping. A governess who used to work for her is called upon to do special packages - otherwise ''anyone in the Ford agency with two hands free'' pitches in. ''If there are hundreds of gifts that have to be wrapped for whatever special occasion, we don't care what your title is. You wrap!'' she says.
But there are some errand requests that must be refused. Desmond Gorges, the quintessential butler, tries never to say no. He didn't balk when an employer on a business trip in Toronto asked him to fly from New York with four pills that hadn't been packed. Nor did he flinch when Asher Edelman asked him to take ''his tiny tot to an enfant jamboree exercise class. There I was with all these yuppie mommies playing toesy and kneesy with this baby, he says.'' And Mr. Gorges had no hard feelings when a British employer ''asked me on a bitter cold night to trundle all over New York to find the ingredients for this odd drink that I happily mixed for him - and he never took a sip of.'' But Mr. Gorges drew the line when, as he recalls, ''One lovely couple asked me to lay out their recently deceased father, which, of course, I politely refused to do.''
If the errand-runners occasionally draw the line, so do some errand-delegators. ''A lot of things you have to do yourself,'' insists Letitia Baldrige, the etiquette advisor, who devides her time between New York and Washington. When in New York she has a technique for getting a lot of errands done quickly: ''I'll pick out the right kind of taxi driver and get his home phone number and say, 'Look, could I borrow you for three hours on Saturday morning?' Then I can zip all over.'' Her do-it-myselfs include: ''Selecting a gift, getting a personal item fixed in a certain way, and, if you're getting something engraved, deciding whether the lettering should be tailored, large or small. Maybe it's arrogance,'' she says, ''but I'd rather do the little things myself on my way to work so I know they'll be right when I pick them up.''
Ms. Baldrige's attitude could be called errand backlash - and it's spreading. ''I would never have anyone choose gifts for me,'' says Harriet Weintraub. ''And you must write thank-you notes yourself if they're to have any meaning. Personal touches make all the difference today. The more people use impersonal help, the more I value the personal touch.''
There are some errands that simply cannot yet be delegated. ''I can't send anyone to the Vertical Club for me three times a week. I have to do that myself,'' says Nikki Haskell, club denizen and cable TV commentator. The devilish jewelry designer Kenneth J. Lane, whose fake pearls are Barbara Bush's signature, says he wishes he could expand errand limits: ''I'm thinking I may have someone else make love for me because it saves time.'' And Roberta Morrell wishes ''I could send somebody in my place to get my hair done.''
Ms. Morrell has figured out how beat movie lines. ''I'll send a messenger to stand in line for me, and when it's only eight minutes away from moving inside the theater, I can walk over and get a good seat.''
In a city where it's an achievement to travel across town in half an hour, getting the errands done, whether by oneself or with an army of helpers, leads to an euphoric sense of control - or what sociologists might call ''errand satisfaction.'' Speaking for just about everyone, Charlotte Ford, the socialite and etiquette adviser says, ''I like having my little list and crossing items off. It sort of make you feel like you're moving along. Getting things done.''
And for those who can't get it done, for the ''errand incompetents,'' there are errand apologies - those cute greeting cards that say ''Oops, I forgot your birthday'' - and the time-honored tax-filing extension. The only problem is - whom to send to pick up the former and apply for the latter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: painting by Horacio Cardo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CDI (PAR) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (51%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (51%); NEW YORK (84%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); BOOKSTORES (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); 

PERSON: PETER OELRICHS DUCHIN (70%); 



222 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 April 8, 1990, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
The Plus Side of Condo Auctions in New England

BYLINE: By NANCY PIERETTI

DATELINE: LINCOLN, N.H.

 BODY:
After several years during which too many condominiums were built, followed by sluggish sales and plunging prices, many developers here are defaulting on loans, forcing distress sales of vacant units in partly occupied projects.
Often these sales have been auctions that produce prices far lower than the occupants paid for their units. Sometimes banks are taking back properties in foreclosure. In either case, the sales have paved the way for finishing off construction, paying delinquent bills of the original developers and enabling other buyers to get houses at affordable prices. 
The experiences of residents at two condominium developments in Lincoln, N.H., seems to confirm the longer-term benefits that these procedures have brought to resident owners and their condominium.
At the 102-unit Nordic Inn condominium, Numerica Savings Bank of Manchester, N.H., auctioned 45 unoccupied units in for $50,000 to $60,000 each in February. The development is in a ski village near the Loon Mountains in the heart of New Hampshire's White Mountain resort region.
John Price, president of the Nordic Inn Condominium Association, had paid $106,000 for his own 1,000-square-foot unit only two years ago. Nevertheless, he said he expects long-term benefits from the auction.
Some weeks earlier the bank that had financed the development itself bought back the inn's health club and pool. The facilities have been closed since the developer defaulted. But since the bank acquired title, prospects for a reopening have improved. The condominium association itself hopes to buy them from the bank - at a price well below what they would have cost had the developer been successful.
On the opposite side of town, at Deer Park Condominiums, a development of town houses and apartments, owners voted to increase association dues by 50 percent after the developer defaulted on bank loans and association dues. Of the 315 units, 168 are complete and sold to individuals - 15 of whom live there year-round - and nine were started but not finished.
The developer, the Satter Companies of New England, based in Lincoln, has built more than 1,000 vacation homes in the White Mountains in the last eight years. Its total debt to its principal lender, United Savers Bank of Manchester, is about $43 million.
''It will take time and effort to reap any benefits from the situation, but the end result may be a better development because of the sense of community among property owners,'' said William Flannery, president of the Deer Park Property Owners Association.
''The best scenario is when the bank takes over,'' said Wayne Hyatt, a lawyer at Hyatts & Rhoads in Atlanta, a nationwide firm specializing in community-association law. ''Then you go from a bad situation to a better one, instead of bad to worse.''
According to the Community Associations Institute of Arlington, Va., one of eight Americans - or nearly 30 million people - live in community-association situations. There are 130,000 such organizations now, with 225,000 expected by the year 2000. Representatives of these associations tend to hail any sale method that brings revenue and occupancy to new developments, and completes the facilities they are supposed to offer the residents. They attach little significance to the fact that unit prices in an auction may be well below the prices that occupants initially paid.
''Once you get through the auction stage, values are not affected at all,'' said David Mercer, a community association lawyer practicing in Alexandria, Va. ''As inventory decreases, prices tend to stabilize and will eventually go back up.''
That is what happened to Thomas Lizotte. He bought his first house, a 1,550-square-foot town-house condominium with a garage at the Valley West development in Manchester, in southern New Hampshire, at a preconstruction price of $62,000 in 1986. Construction delays and financial problems prevented the developer, Forrest Sells of Manchester, from finishing the unit for a year and a half and 25 percent of the 140 units were not finished at all.
Despite rising property prices in southern New Hampshire from 1985 to late 1987, units were mired in bankruptcy proceedings and were not auctioned until last year.
''Technically, my unit was worth $85,000 if you factored in the marketplace,'' Mr. Lizotte said. ''But at the auction in 1989 people paid about what I had paid in 1986. Now we're beginning the ascent again.''
Property owners also benefit if a new buyer begins to pay the common charges to the association on which a developer may have been in arrears. In some cases, when a developer or a unit owner has defaulted on association fees, which are needed for maintenance and the operation of common spaces, they have had to be reassessed to the other owners, said Donald Dyekman of the law firm of O'Connor, Cavanagh, Anderson, Westober, Killingsworth and Beshears of Phoenix.
Problems with such defaults have led to the adoption in some states of the ''super lien'' under which the community association gets higher priority than the holder of the first mortgage. But that law has been adopted by only a few states while others slowly re-evaluate their statues.
At issue, too, is the responsibility of the new owner to finish amenities and honor warranty work after the property has been auctioned. Generally, the lender who has foreclosed on a property and buys it back finishes the job, Mr. Mercer said.
The New Hampshire Attorney General's office is studying what the new owners' responsibilities are and the time given to comply.
At present there is no move to change the statute, said Terry Robertson, senior assistant in the state's Consumer Protection Division, but heroffice has hired three lawyers to handle consumer complaints. Last year the office reported 533 complaints related to real estate, compared to 447 in 1988.
New Hampshire's slow economy, coupled with announcements by banks here that millions of dollars will be added to loan-loss reserves because of nonperforming real estate loans, has resulted in more auctions. John Allen, a banking and securities lawyer at Russos, Hages & Hodes in Manchester, said that ''as the general credit market tightens up and bank regulators enforce stricter banking industry regulations,'' fewer banks are willing to lend additional money to developers to whom they have already made loans. A result, he said, is ''more auctions.''
Sheldon Good & Company of Chicago, one of the nation's largest real estate auctioneers, auctioned $75 million in property in the first quarter of 1990 in New England. Auctions have been taking place elsewhere in the country, said Steven Good, president of the firm, and are new only in New England.
James St. Jean, a Manchester auctioneer, said he conducted 325 auctions in New Hampshire last year and 170 in the first three months of 1990.
Industry analysts, among them Russell Thibeault, president of Applied Economic Research of Laconia, N.H., an economic forecasting and research firm, said the deepest discounts on condominiums are on projects of more than 100 units in fairly remote areas of the state where developers built in anticipation of a market that never happened.
''The upside,'' Mr. Thibeault said, ''is the more reasonable products are now selling for 50 percent of what they would have sold for in 1987 during the height of the market.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Nordic Inn condominiums, Lincoln, N.H., where 45 units were auctioned for $50,000 to $60,000. (The New York Times/Jon Pierre Lasseigne)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SAVINGS BANK OF MANCHESTER INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LINCOLN (NH)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; CONDOMINIUMS CONDOMINIUMS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); RESORTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); SKIING (69%); 

PERSON: PIERETTI, NANCY



223 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 18, Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Busy Young Director Sees Lean Years Vanish

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
GORDON EDELSTEIN, the newly appointed associate artistic director of the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, was recalling the lean years, when he was a struggling director ''waiting tables, doing word processing and ready to give up.''
''I didn't go to grad school,'' he said. ''I had no slick personality and no sexy credentials. I almost quit 500 times.'' 
Now 35 years old, Mr. Edelstein is the self-described ''artistic right hand'' to Arvin Brown, the artistic director of Long Wharf, which is having its 25th anniversary season. His first directorial assignment for Long Wharf's Main Stage, Eugene O'Neill's ''Anna Christie,'' is on view through April 29, and Mr. Edelstein is holding rehearsals off Broadway as the director of ''Tales of the Lost Formicans'' by Constance Congdon, a resident playwright of Hartford Stage Company. The play, under the producing banner of the Women's Project, is to begin previews on April 17 in preparation for an opening on April 24 at the Apple Corps Theater, 336 West 20th Street.
 
Directing Departure
And come June, Mr. Edelstein is expected to resume, for the fourth summer, his position as associate artistic director of the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge, Mass., where he is the head of the theater's second stage, the Unicorn.
Overseeing an O'Neill play is a departure for Mr. Edelstein, who is best known for collaborating with contemporary playwrights, like Ms. Congdon, as their works evolve. He made his Long Wharf debut as a director with ''A Dance Lesson'' by David Wiltse, which developed from the theater's workshop series to a Stage II production last year.
Commenting on his approach to the early O'Neill play, a 1922 Pulitzer Prize winner that is not considered one of the playwright's masterpieces, Mr. Edelstein said:
''A lot of O'Neill's dialogue, steeped in immigrant colloquialism, is almost unsayable. Some scenes border on the overmelodramatic and clunky. But I'm very attracted to plays of grand passion and to singular voices who are driven to write. And we know how O'Neill was driven. You can feel the pulsing passion on every page, and that's something palpable to work with.''
 
'Closet Feminist Play'
In the play, Anna Christie, who had been a prostitute in St. Louis, goes to New York to join her father, the skipper of a coal barge. Her lover, Mat Burke, leaves her when he learns of her shady past - but they are reconciled.
'' 'Anna Christie' is a closet feminist play,'' Mr. Edelstein said. ''Women were economically driven to prostitution. Anna spent a life being used, abused and owned by men, and her consciousness was raised by that. When she confronts Mat with his male sexual hypocrisy -he has a prostitute in every port, but Anna's 'unclean' to him - the audience cheers.
''The play has been discounted by O'Neill scholars. He was criticized for copping out with a happy ending. But O'Neill was too honest for that. He felt the real point of the ending was missed; it's a coda of foreboding. People don't change, and we spent a great deal of rehearsal time on the last two pages, just to get that ending right.''
In contrast to having to breathe new life into a war horse, Mr. Edelstein has been involved in the evolution of Ms. Congdon's new play through six productions in the past three years.
 
'Honoring the Playwright'
''It was just a series of scenes about a family in Colorado in the 1960's,'' he said. ''And it began to develop as a study of suburban culture - as seen through the eyes of alien anthropologists in the future. It's a sad and goofy look, from the future as well as the past, at the nature of our lives, not just our life styles.''
About his credo as a director, Mr. Edelstein said: ''Directing is like conducting. You sculpt out the themes that are prominent to you. My own ego is not on my agenda, only honoring the playwright - and making it clear and visceral for the audience.''
Mr. Edelstein grew up in Woodmere, L.I., and graduated from Grinnell College in Iowa. He has been directing, fitfully, since 1978 in regional theaters, off Broadway and off Off Broadway. Three years ago, he married Dr. Joan Berman, an obstetrician and gynecologist. The couple, who have a 9-month-old daughter, Marlene, divide their time between an apartment on Manhattan's Upper West Side and a home in Lenox, Mass., near the Berkshire Theater Festival.
About the turnaround in his professional and personal life, Mr. Edelstein, who is to direct the world premiere of two one-act plays by Joyce Carol Oates at the Long Warf's Main Stage next sesason, said:
''I had seven years of bad luck just trying to survive in New York City. Then everything changed. My marriage. The Berkshires. And when the Long Wharf job came up, I was in the right place at the right time.
'' 'A Dance Lesson' worked. They asked around about me, and my network of contacts came through. What a blessing. It would be awfully indecent of me to complain.''

GRAPHIC: Photo; Gordon Edelstein, the associate artistic director of the Long Wharf Theater (T. Charles Erickson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD STAGE CO (64%); WOMEN'S PROJECT (55%); WOMEN'S PROJECT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG WHARF THEATER (NEW HAVEN)

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); FESTIVALS (74%); DANCE (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); IMMIGRATION (61%); PROSTITUTION (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; EDELSTEIN, GORDON GORDON EDELSTEIN (96%); EUGENE O'NEILL (90%); ANNA CHRISTIE (72%); CONSTANCE CONGDON (58%); 



224 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 13, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Novelist Uses The Island's Gold Coast As A Setting For A Clash of Cultures

BYLINE: By CAROL STRICKLAND

 BODY:
A NEGLECTED property next door, the nightmare of every suburban homeowner. Imagine how much worse for John Sutter.
He is living on a 200-acre Locust Valley estate, complete with a 50-room McKim-Mead-White mansion, while the neighboring hulk is a Spanish Colonial villa with a leaking roof, bashed-in windows, moss-covered interior walls and squirrels nesting in the plumbing.
John Sutter should be ecstatic when the new owner's horde of handymen restores the white stucco walls and red-tiled roof to their former splendor. Right? Not exactly. 
Why? Because Mr. Sutter, the main character in Nelson DeMille's latest novel, ''The Gold Coast,'' is a descendant of original Long Island gentry, his wife is a blueblood socialite and his new neighbor happens to be the boss of New York's most powerful organized-crime family.
 
Premise for a New Book
This clash of cultures is the premise for Mr. De Mille's new book about manners and morals, which will be published April 16. Referring to F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Great Gatsby,'' a classic parable of Gold Coast life during the Roaring Twenties, Mr. De Mille said that his book ''is sort of Jay Gatsby meets the Godfather.''
Mr. De Mille, who lives in Garden City, has published five books since 1978, each selling more than a million copies. The last two, ''The Charm School'' and ''Word of Honor,'' made The New York Times best-seller list, and ''The Gold Coast'' is a Book of the Month Club main selection for May.
Peter Guber of Columbia Motion Pictures acquired film rights to the book for $750,000, hired Frank Yablans of ''The Godfather'' as producer and John Gregory Dunne and Joan Didion to write the screenplay.
With a major novel and film approaching, the Gold Coast, accustomed to basking in a glow no stronger than a lighthouse's dim beacon, is about to be hit by the glare of klieg lights.
The Gold Coast extends from Long Island Sound to Northern State Parkway and stretches from the Nassau County line in the west to Centerport.
Comprising about a third of Nassau County's area, the Gold Coast once included about 500 lavish estates built from the turn of the century until the Depression.
It is still arguably, as the novel puts it, ''The best neighborhood in America, making Beverly Hills or Shaker Heights, for instance, seem like tract housing.''
Mr. De Mille, known as an author of cold war thrillers, among them ''The Talbot Odyssey,'' decided to set his latest narrative on the Gold Coast because, he said, ''it was not well-documented in literature. I see Long Island's North Shore as a microcosm of our changing society.
''I've always been fascinated by the Gold Coast. The homes themselves are spectacular, unlike anything you'll see other than in Newport, Bar Harbor or Palm Beach. It's a very special area that, because of local demographics, is not going to survive much longer.''
Mr. De Mille was born in Jamaica, Queens, and educated at Elmont High School and Hofstra University, and so he knows the area well, although he calls himself ''a member in good standing of the middle class.''
His interest in the Gold Coast estates first arose when his father, a French Canadian immigrant during the 30's, was a contractor on some of the mansions, among them the W. R. Grace estate and Greentree, the Whitney estate.
To research the book, Mr. De Mille infiltrated behind the wrought-iron gates with a tree surgeon who has worked on the estates for 30 years.
The author also consulted amateur historians, among them Robert and Audrey Whiting, to learn, as he put it, ''the social history that you can't find in books.
''Someone local can tell you who lived in what mansion,'' he said, ''who was having love affairs and who murdered whom.''
The Whitings live in the gatehouse of a 127-acre Old Brookville estate that is now the corporate headquarters of Banfi Vintners, maker of Riunite wine.
The estate, built in 1927 for Sir Samuel Salvage, an English knight, and later owned by the widow of Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt, ''played a prominent role in the social life of the Gold Coast,'' said Carmel Tintle, Banfi's vice president of public relations. It was then that debutantes curtsied at glittering soirees.
Now, opulently restored by John Mariani, Banfi's chairman, and his brother, Harry F. Mariani, the company's president - both are friends of Mr. De Mille - the mansion will be the site of the publishers' reception for the debut of ''The Gold Coast.''
The novel presents a sharply observed portrait of the upper crust, the privileged ''old-money people'' who frequent exclusive clubs like Piping Rock, The Creek and the Seawanhaka-Corinthian Yacht Club.
 
'Locust Valley Lockjaw'
It would be difficult to find a snootier ''silk stocking'' than the protagonist's wife, Susan Stanhope Sutter. Whether cantering through her estate on horseback or sprinting down a private road in her Jaguar, she is the quintessential robber baroness.
Susan's speech is characterized by ''Locust Valley Lockjaw'' or, as Mr. De Mille writes:
''The ability to speak in complete and mostly understandable sentences - including words with lots of broad vowels - and do so without opening one's mouth, like a ventriloquist.''
Yet, despite her hauteur, Susan's family estate, $400,000 in arrears in taxes, is on the block, the victim of colossal heating bills. Clearly, Mr. De Mille sees the graffiti on the mullioned window and hears the bulldozer in the courtyard.
''I was concerned with the social history of the area, what it was like to live on these huge estates and how the world changed,'' he said.
''There are a lot of books about the passing of the English aristocracy, but the vast majority of Long Islanders don't understand their own backyard. It's a private preserve.''
 
A Conquering Don
What distinguishes the book from an American version of ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' the British television gem, is the advent of the conqueror, Frank Bellarosa, the Mafia don who diversifies his holdings into Gold Coast real estate.
''The thing that gave the book its fire and engine was the idea of an old WASP family getting involved with a Mafia crime family,'' said Mr. De Mille.
''Like all good novels, this is based on truth. There are Mafia families that have bought magnificent houses on the North Shore, although not yet the great estates because they don't want that kind of high profile.''
Mr. De Mille, who is half Italian, spoofs the decor of ''Mafia Manor.'' The novel's aristocratic narrator, John Sutter, labels Mr. Bellarosa's ''new three-tiered marble fountain from which water spouted and cascaded, lit by multicolored lights,'' as ''early Italian catering hall.''
The parvenu Mr. Bellarosa is seen as Gatsby's heir, the paradigm of nouveau riche excess. Scott Fitzgerald's Gatsby, whose gaudy, champagne-drenched parties in his Great Neck chateau epitomized the Flapper Era, was the very image of the financial moguls who made - and spent - their fortunes on the run.
Mr. De Mille's Bellarosa is the modern equivalent of Fitzgerald's Gatsby, with his fictional, ostentatious Easter party rivaling in vulgarity those that the financier Otto Kahn used to give on his 600-acre, 125-room Woodbury estate.
''To make the hunt interesting,'' Mr. De Mille writes of Kahn's parties, ''each colorfully painted egg contained a $1,000 bill. This was a popular event, and an original way to celebrate the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.''
The disparate worlds of Snob and Mob are evident in the epigrams each lives by. For John Sutter, an alumnus of Yale and Harvard Law School, ''The most important WASP dictum is, 'Never touch the principal.' ''
In contrast, Mr. Bellarosa candidly acknowledges his more primitive management style: ''Sometimes I got to fire people, but sometimes I got to fire at people.''
Despite his tough talk, however, this Mafia don is no ordinary thug. Educated at Oakdale's La Salle Military Academy, Mr. Bellarosa quotes St. Jerome and has read Dante and St. Augustine. Unfortunately for society, he has absorbed all too well the precepts of Machiavelli's ''Prince.'' As for a summary of his education, Mr. Bellarosa says: ''You asked me what I learned at La Salle? I tell you one thing I learned. No matter what kind of peace treaties you got, you post a 24-hour guard.''
Mr. De Mille emphasizes the gangster's prep-school background to pose the question: ''What if a man with this kind of education and brilliance made it to the top and used that education for evil?''
The novel implies that, although you can take the mobster out of his murderous milieu and plunk him down amid gazebos and reflecting pools, you cannot take the murder out of the mob. After vividly depicting love and lust among the ruins of the ruling class, both upper class and upstart are ruined.
Mr. De Mille, who says the Mafia's ''influence on Long Island seems to be waning,'' intended to show, he said, ''the passing of two different kinds of culture at the same time.''
After the waning of old money and the downfall of corrupt money, what is next?
''The hamburger chains, shopping malls, 24-hour convenience stores, pizza parlors - they're here already,'' writes Mr. De Mille.
 
Pondering the Flip Side
As builders pour asphalt over the former Stanhope estate, where Mrs. Sutter once lived, her husband ponders the flipside to economic development: ''Another few hundred acres had gone from rural to suburban, from pristine to scarred.''
''This country needs an esthetic revolution,'' said the author, pointing out his office window to where ugly, institutional condominiums have replaced a park and the elegant, Georgian-style Garden City Hotel.
''The Europeans, with more population density and less land, have managed their countryside and urban landscapes better than we have. Here we emphasize the rights of landowner rather than society at large. It's not a healthy thing.'' Mr. DeMille's novel concludes the guided tour to what Fitzgerald called ''that slender, riotous island'' with a postscript. For Gatsby, ensconced in his Gold Coast mansion, the American dream, Fitzgerald wrote, ''must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it.''
Sixty-five years later on the Gold Coast, Mr. DeMille writes, ''There are dreams that can come true, and dreams that can't.''

GRAPHIC: Photo; Nelson DeMille, author of ''The Gold Coast,'' at Banfi Vintners in Old Brookville (NYT/Vic DeLucia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GOLD COAST, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (66%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); SUBURBS (78%); LITERATURE (74%); BESTSELLERS (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); COLD WAR (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (53%); 

PERSON: STRICKLAND, CAROL; DEMILLE, NELSON DE MILLE (90%); JOHN SUTTER (55%); 



225 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: AKRON, OHIO;
Pinning Hopes On a Tower

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STOFFEL

 BODY:
THE first new, privately financed downtown office building here in nearly a decade is under way, giving hope to local officials that a changing economy in the area - from rubber manufacturing to research and technology - will benefit the city's center.
The new building, a $30 million 18-story structure, is the first phase of the $60 million mixed-use Main Place complex. It will be completed next year and occupy nearly half a block. It will have 288,000 square feet of offices and 45,900 square feet of retail space; 128 new parking spaces and an underground walkway linking the offices to existing nearby parking spaces; a skywalk to the adjacent 26-story First National Tower, and a new central bus station. 
The developers have not yet decided whether the second phase of the project will be more office space or a hotel.
Announced last December by the Brenlin Group, a local conglomerate whose companies manufacture a variety of products, the project comes after a decade of city efforts to renovate the block of buildings, several of them vacant. Seven - the oldest is the 1918 Strand Theater - will be razed and six small businesses will be relocated.
''Over the years we have tried to encourage the restoration of these buildings, but our downtown just hasn't been active in redevelopment in the last 15 years,'' said James Alkire, director of Planning and Urban Development.
While the developers are optimistic about filling the new space, they say the project was conceived not out of demand but as a civic effort to create more interest in downtown, which has become service-oriented and could cater to the needs of research and technology companies.
The project is a result of two years of planning by David L. Brennan, chief executive officer of the Brenlin Group, and his partnership in the Main Place venture with other longtime Akron businesses. Among investors who have raised $11 million for the project thus far are First Bancorporation of Ohio and the Brenlin Group.
''No one is knocking down our doors for offices in downtown, but there is interest out there,'' said Michael A. Kunce, vice president of Bowery Management, the local manager of the project, in which no space has been preleased.
The city has agreed to advance the developers the $3 million needed for land acquisitiion, demolition and site preparation. This will be repaid over the next 15 years from property taxes. In addition, the Metro Regional Transit Authority is overseeing a $7.5 million beautification project along Main Street and the city has committed $500,000 to link Main Place to public parking through an underground concourse.

GRAPHIC: photo: Rendering of Main Place complex planned in Akron, Ohio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FBCV (NASDAQ) (63%); FBP (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTRUST FINANCIAL CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AKRON (OHIO)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); RUBBER & SILICONE (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); CITIES (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (54%); 

PERSON: STOFFEL, JENNIFER



226 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 6, Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Huntington Is Facing Deadline on Housing

BYLINE: By JUDY GLASS

 BODY:
HUNTINGTON is facing a deadline to begin building ''affordable'' housing on a rocky site now occupied by 500 commuter parking spaces.
But town officials do not want to allow any building until they can provide equivalent parking that would be lost once the housing project got started.
Money for a new multilevel parking garage is being sought and should be forthcoming by the end of the year, Huntington officials said.
The plan is to build a 10-acre housing development on Broadway, north of the Huntington Station railroad tracks. The term ''affordable,'' meanwhile, appears to be a sticking point. The deadline is next year. 
 
Sources of Funds
''The garage must be built before the housing project,'' said Tom Mazzola, Huntington's director of transportation and traffic safety, who expects to get half of the $7 million cost of the garage from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 25 percent from the Federal Urban Mass Transit Authority and 25 percent from the state.
The town acquired 8.6 acres of the 10 acres in 1987 by paying $534,447.47 in back taxes to Suffolk County. In negotiations with the county, it was agreed that affordable housing would be a good use for the land.
According to the deed, development of the land must be started within four years or it will revert to the county tax rolls.
''The term 'affordable' is a loose one,'' said Councilman Kenneth Christensen, head of the Citizens Advisory Committee formed after the deed was signed. '' 'Affordable' is not subsidized housing.''
To arrive at an affordable price, analysts used the median income of Huntington town employees, $37,000 a year, and the average price of houses in the surrounding area, $200,000 to $300,000. The three-bedroom units would be affordable to households with an income of $74,000, they calculated.
The Huntington Station Revitalization Plan was completed by the consulting concern of Conklin Rossant of New York City in November 1989. The concern's report suggests a 247-unit housing project, starting at $107,000 for a one-room studio and going to three-bedroom units for $207,000.
 
Requests for Proposals
John Trench, head of the Citizens Advisory Committee, said the committee was preparing a formal proposal for the new Town Supervisor, Stephen Ferraro. The analysts estimate that the project will generate about $36 million in revenues; however, costs will not be known until the town receives requests for proposals from developers, Mr. Trench said.
Negotiations are under way to acquire the site of a burned-out car dealership next to the station depot as a site for the garage. The site, which is slightly less than one acre, will probably cost the town $1.3 million to $1.5 million, Mr. Christensen said.
''We will definitely use that site,'' said Councilman Quentin Sammis, who was involved in the county negotiations and was the first head of the Citizens Advisory Committee. ''It's an ideal site, and the garage will be finished before the housing project is started so that commuters will not be inconvenienced.''
''Any plan that replaces 500 parking spaces in close proximity to the train station with housing is ill conceived,'' said Vincent de Pass, the only speaker at a public hearing on Federal financing for the garage. A garage, he said, could worsen problems with vandalism and traffic congestion.
 
Dependency on Commuters
''The economy of Huntington is, to a certain degree, dependent on the resident who commutes to the city but pays his real-estate taxes here,'' Mr. de Pass said.
The Conklin Rossant report recommends that ''the annual cost of parking at the station should be at least as much as the cost [$168 a year] of commuting by HART bus to the station.'' The Long Island Rail Road monthly ticket from Huntington to New York is $163.
The housing project, as proposed, would have 300 parking spaces, and the garage, with 600 spaces, would not add significantly to the number of spaces available to commuters.
At present, the infrequent traveler with no parking sticker has a difficult time finding a parking space near the station during the week, Mr. de Pass told the Town Board.
Like the existing garage, which holds 1,250 cars, a new one built with Federal funds would have to accommodate out-of-town commuters who have permits, as well as Huntington residents.
Between 1986 and 1988, the Town of Huntington issued 18,000 two-year stickers to Huntington residents, who can park on town-owned lots or in the garage. There are 3,000 spaces on 13 town-owned lots at Huntington Station and 272 spaces on the street near Huntington Station.
Additional lots are in Northport, Greenlawn and Cold Spring Harbor. The town also issued about 800 permits in each of those years to nonresidents, who are limited to parking in the garage.
 
Fee Going Up
Out-of-towners pay the same amount, $10 a car, as Huntington residents. The town recently moved to change the parking fee to $30 a car for a one-year permit for Huntington residents, starting next month, but has yet to determine the cost to nonresidents.
A Long Island Rail Road survey last fall showed that 5,860 passengers board at Huntington Station between the hours of 6 and 10 A.M.
''Huntington Station has become a hub,'' said Supervisor Ferraro, because electrification of the tracks ends at that point.
There has been no presention of a study to the Town Board since he took office, he said, and he plans to halt negotiations until he gets suggestions from the public, ''especially Huntington resident commuters, whose right to parking must be protected,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNTINGTON (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PARKING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); COUNTIES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LAND SUBDIVISION (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: GLASS, JUDY VINCENT DE PASS (61%); 



227 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Money Isn't Everything in Greyhound Strike

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 8

 BODY:
With almost daily episodes of sniper fire, windshield smashing or threats to the substitute drivers, the Greyhound strike is about as nasty as strikes get these days, and it does not seem that it should be.
The 6,300 striking drivers want more money. But those at Greyhound's Midwestern hub here, as in many other cities, readily find temporary and part-time work driving trucks and other companies' buses, so complaints of mortgages going unpaid and children unfed are rare.
Nor do many strikers complain about Greyhound's health benefits or pensions, concerns that have led other workers to join picket lines.
 
A Threatened Way of Life
Something else is at work here: pride and a way of life. Greyhound was the king of the highway, assuring low-budget travelers a safe trip home for funerals and holidays. Drivers counted themselves among the aristocrats of organized labor - captains of aluminum-sheathed behemoths who kept peace on board, mastered the secrets of urban and rural streets and gave old people a hand. 
''You're the boss,'' said John Noha, a 44-year-old driver who has been with Greyhound for nine years, resting in the Chicago strike headquarters from picketing.
''Passengers recognize that uniform as a person they can trust,'' said Bill Coker, 44, a driver for three years. ''They don't go to management. They don't go to the supervisor in the terminal. They come to us. It gets in your blood.''
So Greyhound's effort to hold down the drivers' wages strikes not only at their paychecks, but also at their pride, a pride that is further wounded by the company's paying top rates to substitute drivers with just a few weeks' training. Furthermore, management has promised the substitutes that their jobs are permanent, threatening the strikers with not just lower pay, but no pay at all.
Over the weekend, rumors circulated that the drivers were mounting an effort to save their jobs through an employee takeover of the company. ''We've been informed that there's a buyout going on and that there might be an announcement on Tuesday,'' said a labor leader here who asked not to be named.
Jeff Nelson, a spokesman for the Amalgamated Transit Union in Washington, said, ''We may be having an announcement Tuesday.'' But he said he did not know the subject of it.
Fred G. Currey, the chairman of Greyhound, said he had not heard the reports but added, ''This business is not for sale.''
The company's goal in the labor dispute is to keep down its costs, especially wages. It faces acute competition for passengers from railroads and airlines, and very thin profits.
But pay is a complex concern in this industry. A decade ago, veteran drivers' incomes exceeded $30,000 a year, putting them comfortably in the middle class, and the pay made the jobs something that other drivers aspired to. Now for the first time drivers realize they may never see that kind of pay again.
Moreover, management has humiliated the men and women on the picket line in showing that it can readily find substitute drivers who, after three or four weeks' training, have shown that they can deliver their passengers, less expertly, but deliver them nevertheless. And management is paying the top wages to substitute drivers, rather than requiring that they spend a decade working up to it, and it has unequivocally assured them that their jobs are permanent. The more drivers Greyhound hires as the strike, now in its fifth week, persists, the fewer union drivers will be able to rejoin Greyhound.
The company is telling the strikers, ''You're nothing but a bunch of dumb bus drivers,'' said Lenase Brown, 45, a driver for 10 years. ''I'm more hurt than mad.''
Ronald J. Peters, a professor of labor and industrial relations at the University of Illinois, said, ''There's a feeling of a loss of status, a loss of input, among people who have given the best years of their lives to the company.''
 
Powerful Forces at Work
Drivers for Greyhound, like airline pilots and skilled industrial workers, and their employers as well, have become victims of forces much larger than they. They have been caught in the maw of economic transitions, from a more benign time when unions would win higher wages and benefits, and employers would raise prices and fares to pay for them. In transportation, Federal deregulation broke the process by creating greater competition in fares, and in industry foreign competition had much the same effect.
The Greyhound strike is also a reminder, if one is needed, of something else: that labor unions have lost much of their membership and power in recent years, that crossing a picket line to fill a striker's job is not automatically regarded as an unspeakable act.
The changes in business and industry have been especially harsh on Greyhound. Passengers rode Greyhound 10 million miles a year a decade ago, but with deregulation-provoked cuts in airline fares, traffic had dropped to nine million pasenger miles in 1983. To help arrest the decline, the drivers accepted a 25 percent cut in their basic wage, from 40 cents per mile they drove to 30 cents. But the decline persisted, to six million passenger miles in 1986.
Three years ago, Mr. Currey, the current chairman, and other investors bought the ailing line, and the drivers agreed to live with the 30-cent wage another three years in return for bonuses for safe driving, gains in passenger traffic and Mr. Currey's assurances that they would eventually regain their status of the nation's best-paid drivers as the company grew. But the bonuses and gains in ridership have been small. Passenger miles had climbed to 7.5 million last year, and after two years of huge losses, the company recorded a minuscule $730,000 profit last year.
When contract talks that are now on hold began late last year, the drivers expected the 40-cent wage to be restored. Instead the company offered more performance-related incentives and later, in an effort to avert the strike, it offered a three-cent raise. The drivers now contend that they were deceived by the man they call ''Drop Dead Fred'' on their picket line buttons and signs.
''He made promises,'' said Mr. Coker. ''He said, 'If you help me bring this company back to where it's making money, I'm going to pass on the money to you.' It was a boldfaced lie.''
Edward M. Strait, president of the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions in Phoenix, said: ''He promised these people he would take care of them come the contract. Boy, he sure did.''
Mr. Currey answers that what is happening to the drivers' wages in today's economy ''is a shame.'' But he said, ''The union has formally stated time and time again that what the company can afford to pay is irrelevant, that the fact that Greyhound wages are higher than all but a handful of over-the-road operators is irrelevant.''
 
Shots Fired at Buses
The tensions of the strike are being played out across the company's route system, with at least 20 shootings, four involving buses based in Chicago; shots at terminals, including one in Chicago, and numerous other incidents, many of which never appear on a police department log.
Here as in many other cities, the courts have enjoined strikers from harassing the substitute drivers, and their passengers. But intimidation is constant. The other day here, a picketer stood outside the terminal with a video camera on his shoulder filming drivers coming and going.
''I left here headed for Indianapolis,'' said a replacement driver. ''I heard a noise,'' she said. ''I thought the toilet lid in the back had dropped. I got to Indianapolis, and they discovered that the bus had been shot in the bathroom window.''
One replacement, a tall, muscular former truck driver, said he was getting ready to retaliate. ''I'm not going to run,'' he said. ''I'm tired of those clowns.''
Union people, who insist that they do not condone the violence, say they are skeptical that their members have anything to do with such incidents. ''It could be the company hiring goons,'' said Bill Pearsall, a driver and Chicago business agent for the Amalgamated Transit Union. He said the replacement drivers could be doing it, too.
But the only person arrested and charged so far in a shooting incident, a man in Connecticut, is a striking driver, and Mr. Pearsall acknowledged that some drivers are angry enough to retaliate.
In one of the latest incidents, a replacement driver was charged yesterday in Washington with carrying a dangerous weapon. Officials said the suspect, Charles E. King, 45, brandished a rifle Saturday during a confrontation with strikers at the Greyhound terminal after discovering that his car had been vandalized.
The recruits say they intend to stay with Greyhound. ''I was driving a truck for a steel outfit,'' said Bob K., 58. ''I was making about $500 gross every two weeks. This is about $1,200 gross. This is the best paying job I've ever had.''
They also say they believe their jobs are secure. In 1983, the previous owners of Greyhound hired replacement drivers during a strike and assured them they could stay, but after the strike ended they were let go.
Edward A. said that he left a machinist job for Greyhound and that he had ordered from Greyhound $301 worth of uniforms. Other drivers interviewed said they had ordered uniforms, too.
Greyhound now makes about half as many trips as usual from Chicago. Passengers interviewed said they did not often encounter more than jeering as they pulled in and out of terminals. The bus is still the cheapest way to go, so they put up with the jeering, Greyhound's truncated schedule and with the new drivers' inexperience.

GRAPHIC: photos: A striking driver picketing outside a Greyhound station in Chicago. (pg. A1); Greyhound drivers say they have lost more than their salaries in the strike; they have lost the pride they took in their jobs. In Chicago, strikers set up an office in a school bus outside the Greyhound terminal. (The New York Times/Jonathan Kirn) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREYHOUND LINES INC

SUBJECT: BUSES; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); AIRLINES (65%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (65%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



228 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Pepsi Will Be Bartered for Ships And Vodka in Deal With Soviets

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
In the largest deal ever between an American corporation and the Soviet Union, Pepsico expects to sign an agreement today to barter Pepsi-Cola for ships and vodka. The accord is valued at more than $3 billion.
The expected deal will greatly expand Pepsi-Cola's availability in the Soviet Union. And for the first time, Pepsico will take out its profits not just in Stolichnaya vodka, but in oceangoing freighters and tankers as well. 
Since 1974, Pepsico has shipped its soft-drink syrup to the Soviet Union, made it into cola and sold the bottled product, taking out its profits in Stolichnaya, which is sold through a third party in the United States. Under the new deal, the Soviet Union will trade at least 10 tankers and freighters, ranging in size from 28,600 tons to 65,000 tons, with a total value of more than $300 million.
 
Cumbersome Bottles Used
The new agreement will enable Pepsico to more than double its Soviet bottling network and eventually make possible the nationwide distribution of soft drinks in aluminum cans and plastic bottles, rather than in the cumbersome glass bottles currently used.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union has said that ending shortages and poor distribution of consumer goods poses a critical test for his leadership. The Pepsico deal is being closely watched as an indicator of whether Western companies can prosper in the Soviet market, which has 287 million consumers who have had little to buy.
Pepsico was the first large American company to enter the Soviet market, led by its former chairman, Donald M. Kendall, who is now the chairman of the executive committee. Mr. Kendall, a former co-chairman and now a director of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council, has actively encouraged other Western businesses to invest in the Soviet Union. He once told an interviewer, ''If we can get the Soviet people to enjoy good consumer goods, they'll never be able to do without them again.''
Pepsico, which is based in Purchase, N.Y., had sales in 1989 of more than $15 billion, making it one of the largest consumer-product companies in the world. Its brand names include the Kentucky Fried Chicken and Pizza Hut restaurants and Doritos tortilla chips.
''This deal is going to make the Soviet Union a very big business for us,'' said John Swanhaus, president of Pepsico's Wines and Spirits subsidiary. Pepsi consumption in the Soviet Union is small - currently about 40 million cases, or about the annual consumption of the Orlando, Fla., metropolitan area, with a population of about one million people. (That does not include nearby Disney World, where, in any case, the Coca-Cola Company has an exclusive concession.) Pepsi sells in the Soviet Union for the equivalent of 75 cents for an 11-ounce bottle.
 
Limited by Infrastructure
Although bottling plants are running at full capacity, Mr. Swanhaus said Pepsi's business was limited by such basic considerations as poor roads and the availabilty of trucks. ''There is no infrastructure in place if tomorrow you triple your business,'' he added.
In the new contract's most significant provision for the consumer-product sector of the Soviet economy, Pepsico will increase the number of bottling plants to 50, from 26, and modernize current production. The bottling plants each have an average annual capacity of about 1.5 million cases a year and have been running full throttle.
Pepsico currently sells its soft drinks in glass bottles, which are relatively expensive and cumbersome to deliver. The result is that distribution in the Soviet Union is generally limited to within 20 miles or so of the company's bottling plants.
Pepsico plans to introduce aluminum cans and plastic bottles in the next several years, which will make national distribution possible. These lighter disposable containers not only require less fuel for transportation but allow trucks to return from deliveries with other goods rather than cases of empties.
The $3 billion value of the contract represents retail sales of Pepsi-Cola and Stolichnaya vodka until the year 2000. That figure assumes a devaluation of the ruble, which is not freely traded on world currency markets. Using Moscow's official exchange rate for the ruble, the deal's value is closer to $9 billion: $1.5 billion for vodka and $7.5 billion for Pepsi in the Soviet Union, officials said.
Pepsico last year sold soft drinks in the Soviet Union worth about 300 million rubles, valued at $500 million at Government exchange rates. Stolichnaya sales in the United States totaled about $156 million last year. American law prevents Pepsico from operating restaurants where alcoholic beverages are served and importing alcohol, so Stolichnaya is sold in the United States through Monsieur Henri Wines Ltd., an importer.
The nonconvertibilty of the ruble is a substantial obstacle in the Soviet Union's bid to import more consumer products because many Western companies insist on ''hard,'' or convertible, currency. The Gillette Company, for example, has tentatively agreed to build a razor blade factory in the Soviet Union but is demanding hard currency payment.
Pepsico's profit is also slight because it must keep a relatively large support staff in the Soviet Union for a relatively small sales volume. Officials would not be more specific.
 
Boom in Imported Brands
Vodka sales in the United States have been flat, but imported brands have boomed. Stolichnaya is the second-largest foreign brand - after Sweden's Absolut - with more than one million cases sold last year. Stolichnaya's sales have fluctutated with swings in Soviet-American relations. Sales plummeted, for example, after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979.
Pepsico will use foreign exchange credits from the sale and leasing of the Soviet ships to provide some financing for two Pizza Hut restaurants scheduled to open in Moscow this year. Fast-food restaurants are expensive to establish in the Soviet Union because of the underdeveloped Soviet food industry.
The new Pepsico contract is scheduled to be signed in Moscow today by senior officials of the Soviet Commission of Agriculture and Procurement; Sudoexport, a shipbuilding agency; Sojuzplodoimport, which has authority over soft drinks and vodka, and Mr. Kendall.

GRAPHIC: photos: Pepsi, vodka and ships are parts of the largest Soviet deal ever made with a U.S. company. (pg. A1); Pepsico was led by its chairman, Donald M. Kendall, when it became the first large U.S. company to enter the Soviet market. (The New York Times); graphs of cases of Pepsi sold in Soviet Union and cases of Stolichnaya sold in U.S. from '74 to '89 (Source: Pepsico) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QUILMES INDUSTRIAL (QUINSA) SA (92%); PEPSICO INC (90%); COCA-COLA CO (60%); PIZZA HUT INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEPSICO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHORTAGES; BARTER; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; VODKA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSUMERS AND CONSUMPTION; BARTER SOFT DRINKS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); TRENDS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); MARINE TANKERS (71%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (70%); SNACK FOODS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S



229 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Foreign Aid

 BODY:
It's time to rethink foreign aid. America no longer needs to view countries through the distorting ice of the cold war. Instead, it can shift emphasis and resources toward building a less fortified, more truly secure world. Such a shift would also serve U.S. interests in a new era in which weapons count less than economic success.
Many of America's present aid programs aren't designed for this new world. Spending is narrowly focused on security assistance and earmarked for a few strategically placed allies. Two of every three aid dollars go to just five countries: Israel, Egypt, the Philippines, Turkey and Pakistan. 
A program for the 1990's needs to embrace more countries and emphasize free-market approaches. It can build on development-oriented programs already in place. But a comprehensive reordering of aid programs is called for.
Americans never relished spending tax dollars on foreign causes. Now that the cold war no longer rallies patriotic support, taxpayers have understandably begun to ask why America should be responsible for raising living standards abroad.
The answer was demonstrated by the Marshall Plan 40 years ago. America best promotes its own economic well-being by helping to consolidate democracy and expand free markets.
Today's greatest opportunities lie in Eastern Europe and Latin America. Assistance efforts are best aimed at encouraging private investment and underwriting large, but one-time, transition costs. The ideal mechanism is multilateral action through both new and existing development banks. Here are some of the more pressing needs and some ways to address them:
Investment incentives. To attract private capital into risky new marketplaces, investment insurance, loan guarantees and preferential credit programs need to be enlarged. New mechanisms can also be developed to give East Europeans and Latin Americans themselves better access to credit.
Lowered barriers. Cold war impediments to technology transfers, especially in computers, can be further reduced. Protectionist restrictions against farm and manufacturing imports can be eliminated, so that developing countries can earn the hard currency needed for expanding trade.
Financial relief. Bank regulators can encourage more debt-reduction deals by private banks. Governments can provide direct help by contributing to currency stabilization funds and reducing official debts. These steps will also free financial resources for trade and investment.
Transition expenses. Eastern European and Latin American governments need to invest in infrastructure. Adequate unemployment and welfare systems are necessary to help workers temporarily between jobs. Devastated environments require renewal to attract new economic activity.
The newly established European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ideally suited to meet such needs in Eastern Europe. In Latin America, the Inter-American Development Bank provides an appropriate vehicle. And in all regions, the World Bank can play an expanded role.
These programs will take bucks, but not megabucks. The whole idea of market-based reform is to rely increasingly on private investment, not government subsidy. And the responsibilities can, and should, be shared with Western Europe and Japan.
Some in Congress have begun to think about new approaches to aid. But so far the Administration has proposed only patchwork change. Worse, Washington seems locked into positions that make needed shifts all but impossible.
Powerful Congressional constituencies appear determined to preserve existing aid formulas. The White House proclaims the need to provide aid to many new countries, but then rejects the two most promising ways of paying for it - a clearly identified peace dividend or a tax increase.
America has the resources to fund worthwhile domestic and foreign programs. But as a result of the last decade's fiscal follies, those resources are not now available for public purposes.
Americans have made sacrifices for decades in the name of a freer world. Now such a world seems at hand. Will Washington keep the U.S. constructively engaged, or let fiscal and political inertia compel a shameful, costly retreat?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); MARSHALL PLAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (68%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%); 



230 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
A Tale of Two Priorities

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
All right, George Bush fans, let's reconcile the following two news items:
The Pentagon has leaked the idea of cutting by two-thirds the funds intended for research into high-definition television. The result would be to make the U.S. armed forces dependent on foreign suppliers like Japan for an important military technology, while also damaging the hard-pressed U.S. electronics industry.
Meanwhile, in the Senate, two Republicans not known for being soft on defense, William Cohen of Maine and John McCain of Arizona, have proposed cutting twice as much out of the Pentagon budget as President Bush has projected - primarily from the B-2 bomber, a new ballistic missile, and the Star Wars strategic defense program.
So can anyone explain why the Administration wants to cut research into high-definition television, one of the most important pending technological developments, while it demands billions in the Pentagon budget for missiles, bombers, and a Buck Rogers antimissile system few scientists believe will work? 
The proposal to cut HDTV research funds comes in the teeth, moreover, of a report by a high-powered Pentagon advisory panel of businessmen, academics and labor leaders. The panel's report calls for a vast increase in funding for HDTV, on grounds that the alternative is ''unacceptably high levels of risk to our national security.'' Increased investment also is necessary, the report's authors argue, to keep U.S. computer and semiconductor industries competitive.
But the Administration's one hand apparently does not know what its other hand is doing. The proposed cut in HDTV funds - $20 million out of $30 million - would be used to ''study'' how to reform Pentagon purchasing procedures, and to provide foreign aid for Panama and Nicaragua.
Not just budgetary but ideological considerations apparently are at work here. Richard Darman, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Michael Boskin, the chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, are reported to be opposed to Pentagon research that would reinforce commercial research and development in the U.S. Why? They think providing such funds smacks of ''industrial policy.''
What rot! For years the Government touted the space program and various military projects for their ultimate commercial applications. Now the Bush Administration finds it ideologically distasteful to give strong backing to HDTV, despite its valuable military potential. Yet, it proposes an overall 1991 defense budget that actually is higher, in dollars to be spent, than the 1990 budget. Only the projected rate of increase has been reduced.
This absurdly high level of military spending has been proposed in spite of developments in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union that clearly make it all but impossible for a Warsaw Pact invasion to be launched against the West. And William Webster, the director of the C.I.A., with the approval of James Baker, the Secretary of State, has told Congress that this course of events is irreversible.
Senators Cohen and McCain now have joined the Senate's Democratic military authority, Sam Nunn of Georgia, in calling for far more extensive cuts in the Pentagon budget than President Bush and his Secretary of Defense, Dick Cheney, have proposed. Under the Cohen-McCain plan, by 1995 military spending would be $50 billion less than in the current year (discounting inflation). For example, they would have the European allies assume primary responsibility for heavy ground forces and air defense in Europe; and they would reduce the present 14 aircraft carrier battle groups by one or two.
Surely such sensible reductions in the U.S. military establishment are more than warranted by the collapse of Communism and the Warsaw Pact, and the numerous internal challenges facing the Soviet Union. Surely, too, such cuts make far more sense than reducing research and development for the future. Does George Bush really want to cede high-definition television, with all its ramifications for defense and the economy, to Japan, while pouring money into the B-2 bomber and Star Wars?
Here, too, is the real measure of Mr. Bush's cheap political pledge, ''no new taxes.'' If cuts in military spending cannot be made fast enough or big enough to pay for other developments the U.S. desperately needs - high-caliber research, education, a rebuilt infrastructure - a true leader would not hesitate to ask this wealthy nation to pay the necessary bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); PANAMA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (72%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 



231 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Higher Fares Increase Lines And Evaders

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
The recent increase in New York City's subway and bus fare, which rose to $1.15 from $1 on Jan. 1, has resulted in longer lines at token booths, a rise in fare evasion and a decline in ridership that could eventually cost the Transit Authority millions of dollars.
Riders who hoarded tokens in the closing weeks of the $1 fare have depleted their caches and are returning to lines already slowed by the complexities of making change from the new fare.
The Transit Authority guidelines say subway riders should wait no more than three to four minutes for a token. In the busiest stations during rush hour, the wait has stretched to 10 minutes - time enough to miss a rush-hour train.
The rate of fare evasions has been rising steadily over the last year, but Transit Authority officials suspect that the wait and the increased cost may be causing more riders to jump turnstiles or pass through fare gates illegally. For January, estimates by the authority indicate, about 5.3 percent of the riders did not pay, up from an estimated 5.1 percent for December. 
The Transit Authority estimates that fare evasion cost the authority about $48 million last year.
 
Remedies Are Suggested
In the last year, the average weekly subway ridership has decreased by about 84,000.
Transit officials and consumer advocacy groups have suggested a variety of remedies, from changing the number of tokens in multiple packs to make the transactions simpler to setting up remedial change-making classes for the clerks.
The subway clerks complain of growing hostility from riders and say they themselves are shouldering too much of the blame for the token booth lines. The clerks say riders contribute to the wait in several ways - by paying with pennies or crumpled dollar bills, by being indecisive about how many tokens they want once they reach the window or by buying only one token at a time.
''They treat us like dirt, call us dirty names and accuse us of making the lines long,'' said Mary Perry, a token clerk at the Times Square station at 42d Street and Broadway. ''I wish they could see how stupid it is for them to be buying one token everyday.''
Many New Yorkers say they are frustrated not only with the 15-cent fare increase, long lines at token booths and fare evaders but also with broken turnstiles, dirty subway stations, the number of homeless people and beggars on the subways and a general decline in the quality of service.
''People who use the subway frequently are very disgusted,'' said Councilwoman Carol Greitzer, a Manhattan Democrat. ''They wait in line for five to seven minutes to buy a token and then they can't get through the turnstile while others are not paying and running through for free. The whole thing is really ludicrous because the paying customer is subjected to such bad treatment.''
 
'Only Way I Can Afford'
''Every time I wait in this line I just get angrier and more confused,'' said Jessie Nye, a mail clerk from Queens who catches the N train at 47th Street and Seventh Avenue. ''The subway is the only way I can afford to get home, and I have to be subjected to this, this garbage,''
Some people no longer take mass transit, choosing instead to walk or take a taxi. Weekday ridership on subways and buses declined 2.1 percent in January to 5.28 million passengers, compared with 5.44 million riders in the month last year, the authority reported recently. Transit officials say weakening of the economy in the metropolitan area has contributed to the lag.
Although ridership declined in January, revenue from subway operations rose 11 percent because of the fare increase. Still, subway revenue was 3 percent below what the Transit Authority had forecast.
 
The Change Problem
Bus service is not a viable alternative to the subway, many riders say. Buses do not accept dollar bills and require either a token or $1.15 in exact change, which many people generally do not carry. The authority has also cut service on many bus lines in the last year because of low ridership.
In an effort to reduce the wait at token booths, the transit officials say they are opening additional windows at booths in the busiest stations, conducting an information campaign to encourage riders to buy tokens in bulk and to use exact change, and selling tokens in vending machines.
But so far those efforts have done little to shorten lines. The average waiting time during rush hour is still about five to seven minutes at most stations, transit officials said, and some riders have waited as long as 10 minutes at heavily used stations like Grand Central, Times Square, and Chambers Street in Manhattan, and Jamaica Center in Queens.
The situation has worsened in recent weeks because thousands of riders who hoarded tokens at $1 each in December have used up their supply and are returning to token booth lines.
The authority estimates that it will lose about $9.1 million this year because riders hoarded so many tokens in December, the final month of the $1 fare. Of the 85 million tokens minted, about 25 million tokens are normally in circulation. By the end of December, about 70 million tokens had been collected by riders who hoped to avoid paying the $1.15 fare for as long as possible.
 
Struggling to Make Change
Many token clerks are still struggling to make change, even though they have hand-held calculators and fare charts. About half the Transit Authority's 3,800 clerks have been hired since 1985, when the fare was last increased, to $1 from 90 cents, and they have never had to make change with coins. Although some clerks caught on quickly and are now adept at making small change, others still are having trouble and are being given remedial help, transit officials said.
Carol Meltzer, the authority's chief station officer, who supervises the subway stations, including token booths, said the lines should get shorter in a few weeks, when the initial flood of riders who hoarded tokens starts to subside and token booth clerks gain more experience making change.
''We are hoping to reduce the average waiting time at token booths to three or four minutes, but riders can play a major role in reducing the size of the lines by buying packs of 10 tokens and using exact change,'' Ms. Meltzer said.
Consumer advocacy groups like the Straphangers Campaign suggest that the Transit Authority consider introducing packs of 13 or 7 tokens that would make for a faster transaction than the current 10-pack. Priced at $14.95, a 13-pack would allow passengers to plunk down $15 or $20 and get a nickel or a nickel and a $5 bill in change. A 7-pack could be sold for $8, giving a nickel savings that could encourage people to buy packs in advance, the groups have said.
 
'Should Do Something'
''Unless the authority offers a special deal, those lines are going to remain in place until another fare increase,'' said Joseph Rappaport, a spokesman for the Straphangers. ''The T.A. should do something to accommodate the passengers since it raised the fare.''
Kevin Hyland, the Transit Authority's chief revenue officer, said the agency had studied various packaging alternatives for tokens and found that the added expense in making packs of 13 and 7 tokens would far outweight any time saving that might come on the lines. He said the current 10-packs are ''enormously popular'' with riders - 43 percent buy them - and that the authority planned to continue to sell them.
Tokens can be bought from machines at most of the major subway stations and at some banks and public agencies. But few people are using the token machines, transit officials said. During a recent rush hour in the Grand Central station, lines at token booths stretched 20 people long while a token machine that was five feet away was not being used.
One rider has refused to pay the extra 15 cents. Regina Bruce, a student at the New York Institute of Technology, said she pays the token clerk a dollar and proceeds through the fare gate or jumps over the turnstile.
''When you look at what you get -filthy cars, trains that are always late, dirty stations - it's not worth another 15 cents. and I urge people not to pay it,'' said Ms. Bruce, who lives in Harlem. Token clerks often refuse to take her dollar, she said, so she leaves it in the money slot at the token booth window.
Transit officials said most fare abuses could be eliminated with automated fare collection, an electronic system that allows passengers to pass through turnstiles using a prepaid fare card. The authority is seeking funds from the state to introduce such a system.
In the interim, the officials said that they planned to install full-height railings in stations and automated gates controlled by token clerks and to place transit police officers at stations that have high levels of fare evasion.
One such station is at 125th Street and Lenox Avenue in Harlem, where the turnstiles are almost always broken and riders are told to deposit their tokens in a fare box. On a recent afternoon, fewer than one in 20 passengers put tokens in the fare box. The token clerk at the station declined to comment.

GRAPHIC: graphs of tokens in curculation from 9/89 to 3/90; riders of public transit who do not pay; transit ridership from '88 to '90 (Source: N.Y.C. Transit Authority) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; SUBWAYS; BUSES; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN



232 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2315 words

HEADLINE: Guidance or Censorship? New Debate on Rating Films.

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
The designation of two new films as X-rated has rekindled debate over the 21-year-old movie-classification system of the Motion Picture Association of America.
An X rating means that no one younger than 17 is permitted to see a movie, and an R means that people under 17 are admitted only in the company of adults. Despite those restrictions, Jack Valenti, the president of the industry trade group that started the ratings system in 1968, insists the system is nothing more than a guide to parents that in no way dictates behavior to filmgoers, film makers or exhibitors.
But many film makers and distributors maintain that the system is a form of censorship. They say it prevents serious adult films from reaching a wider audience because the advertising and distribution of X-rated movies are severely limited and may affect their subsequent acceptability on cable channels. 
Many of these critics of the system, saying it fails to distinguish between films that have adult themes and those that are exploitatively violent or pornogaphic, are also calling for a new ratings designation.
The two X-rated films in question are ''The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover'' and ''Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer.'' Both were submitted to the association and were given an X; their distributors then rejected the X and decided to release the movies unrated. Producers voluntarily submit their films for a rating because they are given wider release in theaters. If they don't get the R rating they want, they may decide to release the films unrated in hopes that they may appear in a few more theaters than they would with an X rating.
 
What the Reviewers Said
''Cook,'' playing in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Kansas City, Miami, New York, Washington, San Francisco and Seattle, is a drama of revenge by the British writer and director Peter Greenaway. In chronicling the rise and fall of a vicious gangster who abuses everyone around him, including his wife, the film depicts murder and maiming of people. There are explicit sex scenes, a child is tortured and there is cannibalism.
Roger Ebert, writing in The Chicago Sun-Times, said of the film, ''This isn't a freak show; it's a deliberate and thoughtful film in which the characters are believable and we care about them.''
Caryn James, in her review in The New York Times, called ''Cook'' ''elegant, stylized and brutal,'' adding that ''though it is not easy to sit through this film, which begins by pushing the thief's most repulsive behavior in our faces, Mr. Greenaway creates such intensity that it is impossible to turn away from the screen.''
But David Edelstein said in The New York Post that Mr. Greenaway was ''coldly and majestically ladling slop for human pigs.''
''Henry,'' directed by John McNaughton, is on view only in Austin, Tex., Detroit and New York City. The film's subject is a drifter who winds up on death row in Texas. It graphically portrays the mutilation of the killer's victims.
Richard Corliss, in Time magazine, called Mr. McNaughton ''a coroner with a touch of the poet.'' Ms. James, in The Times, said the film was ''profoundly disturbing.''
 
Defending the System
Mr. Valenti, in an interview, defended the X ratings in general and the system. ''We are getting no letters from parents demanding that we end the rating system,'' he said. ''And our opinion polls for years have shown that 70 to 73 percent of parents find it useful. All the complaints are coming from producers, who want to push the outer edge of the envelope.''
Richard D. Heffner, chairman of the association's classification and rating administration, said, ''The X rating is the only means we have of saying to parents, 'We think that due to violence, language, sexuality, nudity or other reasons, this film is not for children.' '' He said of film makers: ''We're not asking them to censor their films. No film has to participate in the process, or even stay with the rating we give them.''
Mr. Heffner's California-based rating board consists of parents who are not otherwise involved in the movie business. The board has nine voting positions. Mr. Heffner is also the parents' advocate before hearings of the appeals board in New York. It has 22 members from the movie industry, and a film maker can ask it to change a rating.
 
How an X Rating Cuts the Audience
Russell Schwartz, the executive vice president of Miramax Films, which is distributing ''Cook,'' took issue with Mr. Heffner, saying, ''The X rating can keep a film from finding an adult audience.''
''A lot of newspapers won't accept X-rated ads, and many theater chains have problems accepting X-rated films,'' he said. ''Often, they're not allowed to play them in malls due to real-estate contracts that forbid X-rated films. The lack of an R rating is already limiting the outlets we have across the country.''
The competition to have rated films shown in the most desirable theaters means that unrated films are at a disadvantage, but not as much as if they were rated X. The New York Times considers ads for X-rated films case by case and does not accept such advertisements ''unless we believe there is some artistic or cultural significance to the film,'' said Robert P. Smith, manager of the advertising acceptability department. The Times has accepted ads for both ''Cook'' and ''Henry.''
David Whitten, president of Greycat Films, the distributor of ''Henry,'' said: ''To members of the general public, an X rating means pornographic or dirty or blood-and-gore. When the rating system started, 'Midnight Cowboy' and 'Last Tango in Paris' were X-rated and enjoyed commercial success. But that wouldn't be possible today with an X.''
 
Defending the Content
It is up to individual theaters to enforce the association's rating system. At the releasing companies' requests, theaters that are playing ''Cook'' agreed to bar people under 18, and those showing ''Henry'' agreed to exclude people under 17.
Mr. Greenaway, the director of ''Cook,'' said in an interview, ''This film is obviously about a consumer society and its abuses.'' Several of Mr. Greenaway's previous films, like ''The Draughtsman's Contract'' and ''The Belly of an Architect,'' have been highly praised by critics.
''I don't think it's pornographic,'' Mr. Greenaway said of ''Cook.'' ''I don't think this film is obscene any more so than the society it depicts is obscene, and I would certainly wish that its messages be taken seriously.''
 
'A Very Rough Movie'
Helen Mirren, who stars as the gangster's wife, said: ''The style is avant-garde, and the film is not intended to commercialize and take advantage of elements of sadism in an attempt to manipulate people. There are no exploding heads in this movie, yet when one looks at the kinds of films that are given an R rating -'Friday the 13th' and 'Halloween' -it's outrageous.''
Mr. Whitten said of ''Henry'': ''It is a very rough movie. But there's an embedded message that it's an indictment of the whole idea that you should be able to sit in a theater and watch murder as an entertainment. The ordinary movie with R-rated violence has desensitized the public at large to the violence it depicts. And here is a film that shows murder as a heinous event, not as something that is enjoyable.''
Mr. Valenti said the association could not be held responsible for the limited distribution of X-rated films. ''If people are hurt by this, I'm sorry, but we say to the exhibitors, 'Play anything you want to play,' '' he said. ''I can't ask or force an exhibitor to do anything, and I can't ask or force a director to cut one bit of film. Whatever he does on an economic basis is up to him.''
 
Tyranny of the R In the Real World
For film makers, the R rating is ''a necessity,'' said Paul Schrader, the director of ''Patty Hearst,'' ''Mishima,'' ''Blue Collar'' and ''Hardcore.'' ''Every contract I sign says, 'I agree to submit an R film of no more than 120 minutes' - so it's a contractual obligation. The producers of a $30 million film don't want you to go out with an X. And no major release will go out unrated.''
In practice, ''this means that usually you make the movie you want, and show it to the ratings board,'' he said. ''And they say this and that is a problem, and you change it, to get an R. So they're saying that they're not censoring anyone, but what's happening is that you have to censor yourself, and then you come back to the board, and they may imply, 'You haven't censored yourself enough.' ''
The producers of ''Henry'' and ''Cook'' say they think they were given X's because of overall content rather than specific scenes. When overall content is the reason that an R rating is denied, it can create issues of artistic control for directors. ''If the ratings board says you won't get an R,'' Mr. Schrader said, ''then you know you have to make cuts - but how deeply do you cut - a tiny bit? But maybe it's not enough, so then the studio says: 'We know how to do it. We'll make the cuts.' And then the studio gets involved in your movie.''
Mr. Heffner, the ratings board chairman, said: ''The matter of tone is so much nonsense. I've never seen a T rating for Tone.'' He would not comment on the specific reasons for giving ''Cook'' and ''Henry'' X ratings. But he said: ''We are simply saying that this work of art is in its overall content too strong for children. If from stem to stern it's violent or objectionable, we can't give them a laundry list.''
The distributor of ''Cook,'' Miramax Films, has used the disagreement over the X rating in its publicity for the movie and has made Ms. Mirren and Mr. Greenaway available for television and newspaper interviews. The company has issued press releases deploring the idea that ''a major international artist might be subjected to censorship.''
Mr. Valenti said the ratings system was often assailed for publicity purposes. ''We've seen again and again - they want to hype their picture,'' he said. ''A good publicity man complains about censorship and gets a lot of publicity.''
 
A New Category? Pros and Cons.
Mr. Whitten said the association, ''by not copyrighting the X, participated in allowing that rating to be co-opted.''
Indeed, the association did not copyright the X rating, although it did copyright its G, PG, PG-13 and R ratings. As a result, the makers of pornographic and gory exploitation films have been able to make use of the X rating - and XX or XXX designations - to advertise their films.
''We didn't copyright the X rating from a legal standpoint,'' Mr. Valenti said. ''It had to be an open-ended rating, so that if somebody doesn't want to submit a picture, they can use the X. Otherwise, we could be challenged on First Amendment grounds.'' Those grounds, he said, would be that the association was engaging in a form of censorship: that film makers' and movie patrons' free-speech rights were being abridged by limiting the release of the film to selected audiences.
Mr. Schwartz of Miramax, echoing other film makers and distributors, said: ''This whole archaic rating system should be changed. The M.P.A.A. should copyright another letter and set up a system that has a designation for adults.''
The motion picture industry changed the rating system in 1984, when a PG-13 rating was instituted to serve as a stronger warning to parents of children under 13.
''I think the M.P.A.A. needs to add one more letter,'' Mr. Whitten said. ''If they called it A and copyrighted it, they could award it on the merits of the film. A would mean 'Adults only, no one under 17 admitted,' and they could stop giving the X rating since it's been co-opted by the pornographers.''
 
Why It Might Not Work
Mr. Valenti disagreed. ''More than 450 films a year come up for rating, on average,'' he said, ''and why should we change this rating system, which is working, because of one or two or three films a year where this is a problem?''
Mr. Valenti said that since the rating system was created on Nov. 1, 1968, 419 films had accepted the X rating, ''though twice as many may have made the decision to make excisions to get the R rating,'' he said. The association keeps no statistics on how many films have been unrated.
''If you have two ratings, one for 'serious' slasher movies and one for 'pornographic' slasher movies, then people can sue you over this, saying, 'You're putting me in the leper category.' We have to be fair to everyone. The strength of the current system is its voluntarism. It's survived several lawsuits because it is not Government- sanctioned and because no one has to submit to it.''
If a new rating was created, Mr. Valenti added, ''no matter what letter you give it, it would soon take on the patina of pictures that inhabit that particular category.'' In addition, he contended, it would ''be difficult to distinguish between serious and exploitative films. ''Sometimes the distinctions, say, between 'erotic' and 'porn' are not that easy to judge.''
Mr. Heffner commented: ''Who in the world is the person who'll stand up and say that 'mine is not a work of art'? Right now, the horror fans are saying to the ratings board, 'How can you do this to horror fans?' '' He referred to X ratings given to violent horror films. ''They claim they have their own art form: the gore horror film. So they are saying we're forcing them not to enjoy what it is they enjoy.''
 
Ratings Translation
 
How the Motion Picture Association of America defines its ratings.
 
G: General Audiences - all ages admitted.
PG: Parental Guidance suggested; some material may not be suitable for children.
PG-13: Parents strongly cautioned. Some material may be inappropriate for children under 13.
R: Restricted. Under 17 requires accompanying parent of adult guardian.*
X: No one under 17 admitted.
 
* Age varies in some jurisdictions.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Greenaway, the director of ''The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover,'' with Helen Mirren. (pg. C11); Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, defends the rating system. (pg. C17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE AND HER LOVER, THE (MOVIE); HENRY: PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER (MOVIE); HENRY: PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (52%); MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSN OF AMERICA MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERCIA; 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS MOVIE RATINGS (94%); PORNOGRAPHY (91%); FILM (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HOMICIDE (87%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MURDER (70%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN HELEN MIRREN (58%); 



233 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
Pepsico expects to sign the largest deal ever between an American company and the Soviet Union, bartering soft drinks for vodka and at least 10 oceangoing ships. The deal is estimated to be worth more than $3 billion. [Page A1.] 
The deal for the parent of United Airlines started three months ago when two union leaders began to undo the hard feelings over an earlier buyout attempt involving the carrier's employees. [D1.]
Mastercard International wants to become the credit card for Middle America, and its advertising portrays ordinary activities. By moving away from conspicuous consumption, the company hopes to win a larger share of the market. [D1.]
The violent strike against Greyhound is being fought for more than money. The 6,300 drivers are feeling a loss of status as the bus company struggles with a decline in bus travel. [A1.]
The slot machines at the Trump Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City have taken in too much money too quickly, and 3,008 were taken out of service. A Trump official said the casino was asking permission to make several management changes. [B3.]
 
International
West Germany's economy has been bolstered by a surge of demand from East Germany. Leaders in Bonn said the growth would help pay for the monetary union of the two countries. [D1.]
The Bush Administration must decide whether to keep the pressure on Japan to loosen restrictive trade practices or to take an easier stance to reward officials in Tokyo for promised concessions already made. [D1.]
The giant shipyard in Gdansk, Poland, has become a case study of how difficult the transition from state ownership to private enterprise can be. [D1.]
Bulgaria's economic troubles include an increasing budget deficit, a large foreign debt, 10 percent inflation and a lack of consumer goods. [D5.]
 
 
 
The Economy
The Senate Banking Committee's chairman defended his invovlement in 1987 with a Phoenix developer who controlled a savings and loan institution that has since become one of the costliest failures in the troubled industry. [D1.]
The economic slowdown will not affect long-term interest rates for the next month because of heavy borrowing by the Treasury. [D7.]
 
The Media Business
Grey Advertising has overcome a reputation for drabness with strong increases in billings and innovative campaigns for clients like Mitsubishi, the Pan Am shuttle and Bloomingdale's. [D8.]
Cigarette makers have mobilized in France to fight a Government plan to ban tobacco advertising by 1993. [D8.]
''The Cosby Show'' has been the means to a dream for one of its executive producers who made a deal to buy the San Diego Padres with his partners. [D8.]
Universal Pictures agreed to license 10 films to CBS for about $55 million, bypassing the cable channels. [D8.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
The American operations of foreign companies do not show much profit. That surprises Government officials and economists, who offer serveral explanations. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Browning-Ferris's decision to withdraw from the hazardous-waste business was applauded on Wall Street. Market Place. [D6.]
The International Advertising Association decided to have professional leadership. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (83%); PEP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); FRANCE (70%); BULGARIA (56%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (83%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); PEPSICO INC (58%); TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (56%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (79%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); AIRLINES (72%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); CASE STUDIES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (63%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); SAVINGS & LOANS (62%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); 



234 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Senator Defends Help For Lincoln

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH

 BODY:
The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee yesterday defended his intervention with Federal regulators in 1987 on behalf of a Phoenix developer, Charles H. Keating Jr., saying that Mr. Keating was a business constituent in Michigan, his home state. The chairman, Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., said he had received no indication that Mr. Keating had done anything improper.
In one of his few recent public comments on his involvement with Mr. Keating, Mr. Riegle asserted that in 1987 he and others did not question the activities of the Phoenix developer, who was then battling Federal regulators over restrictions on the investments of his Lincoln Savings and Loan Association of Irvine, Calif.
''He was a business constituent in my home state - had made major investments in Detroit at that time in the redevelopment of downtown Detroit,'' said Senator Riegle, a Michigan Democrat. ''That was the nature of my relationship with Mr. Keating.'' 
Five United States Senators, including Mr. Riegle, met with regulators in April 1987 and questioned them intensely on actions they were taking against Lincoln. The Senators' action has become the focus of a Senate Ethics Committee investigtion.
The regulators, officials of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, have since asserted that they felt pressure from the Senators to treat Mr. Keating leniently and not to take aggressive action to stop his speculative investments.
The interview yesterday on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' included a sharp exchange between interviewers and Mr. Riegle that left the Senator pressed to defend his involvement with the developer. Asked if he had any concerns in 1987 about Mr. Keating's activities, Mr. Riegle responded, ''Well, no, I don't think so.''
When asked about the propriety of accepting a political contribution of $76,000 from Mr. Keating, which he returned after it was questioned, Senator Riegle replied that the Bush campaign had accepted a $100,000 contribution from Mr. Keating.
The exchanges were a rare occurrence for the Senator, who has generally declined interviews about his role in the Keating affair.
Though some officials of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board wanted to seize Lincoln as early as 1987, it was not until April 1989 that the institution was taken from Mr. Keating's control. After Lincoln was seized, the Government filed a $1.1 billion suit against Mr. Keating and his associates, charging lending fraud. He is also the subject of criminal investigations by the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
To a question about public outrage over responsibility for the savings and loan crisis, Mr. Riegle responded in the interview: ''I became the chairman of the Banking Committee a year ago, and I feel the very frustration and the outrage that you suggest. I think anybody that's dealt with this problem feels that way.''
Officials of the Resolution Trust Corporation, the agency created to manage the savings and loan bailout, have said that the Lincoln collapse will cost taxpayers more than $2 billion, making Lincoln perhaps the costliest of all the failures.
Senator Riegle has acknowledged that he received large campaign contributions from Mr. Keating and his associates early in 1987. Soon afterward, he urged Edwin J. Gray, who then was the chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, to meet with five Senators who were concerned about the regulatory treatment of Lincoln. Mr. Keating had contributed heavily to the campaigns of the five Senators, who include four Democrats, Alan Cranston of California, Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, John Glenn of Ohio and Senator Riegle, and one Republican, John McCain of Arizona.
Senator Riegle has had a hard time putting the Keating affair behind him. He frequently says it would be improper for him to comment on the matter while the Ethics Committee is investigating.
On March 29, Senator Riegle suffered a political embarrassment when he proclaimed on the Senate floor that his committee was likely to reject the nomination of T. Timothy Ryan Jr. to be director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Mr. Ryan won by a single vote in committee the next day, and last week the full Senate approved his confirmation by a surprisingly wide margin, 62 to 37.
 
Cost of the Bailout
Questions in yesterday's television interview may have taken Senator Riegle by surprise. The topic of the 30-minute interview show was the savings and loan crisis, not explicity Mr. Keating and Lincoln.
On Friday, the Comptroller General, Charles A. Bowsher, told Mr. Riegle's committee that the 30-year cost of the bailout would be substantially greater than the $257 billion that the Bush Administration initially projected. Mr. Bowsher said the cost would be at least $325 billion and could go as high as $500 billion.
At the same time, L. William Seidman, chairman of the Resolution Trust Corporation, said the cost of the bailout could very well be as high as $500 billion. He noted that as his agency has studied hundreds of troubled and insolvent institutions over the last year they have found the losses to be considerably greater than initially projected by regulators.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald W. Riegle Jr., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, defended his intervention with Federal regulators in 1987 on behalf of a Phoenix developer. (Paul Conklin) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE (72%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF)

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (84%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ETHICS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; KEATING, CHARLES H JR; RIEGLE, DONALD W JR (SEN) CHARLES H KEATING JR (94%); 



235 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Low U.S. Profits For Foreigners

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
FEW issues raise more of a fuss these days than foreign ownership of American businesses. European and Japanese companies are elbowing their way into manufacturing, retailing and other fields, and they are capturing profits that otherwise would have made Americans wealthy. Or so goes one popular theme in the debate. The problem with this theme is that foreign operations here are not showing much profit.
That surprises Government officials and economists, and they offer various explanations. One widely held view is that foreign investment in factories, machinery and buildings has boomed only in recent years, which means that start-up costs have been too high to permit much of a payoff yet. Another holds that foreign companies, trying to increase sales here, have held down prices and profit margins. 
Citing such views, Yoshindo Takahashi, director of the Normura Research Institute (America) Inc., said, ''Japanese companies can live with low returns in the United States because high profits in Japan offset weak earnings here.''
But other explanations are more cynical. Some economists believe that the Commerce Department's income data cannot possibly capture the true profitability of foreign operations in the United States. The reason, in their view, is that most of the $380 billion in foreign direct investment in the United States comes from global companies that are indifferent to whether they report a profit or a loss here.
These giant corporations have operations in many countries, and their common goal is to maximize their worldwide bottom line. To achieve this, a company has to operate in the huge American market, but it does not have to report a profit here. Costs can be spread among the various countries, according to this view, and books are often doctored in pursuit of a fatter worldwide profit or sometimes out of bureaucratic habit.
''How costs and profits are divided up among a company's overseas subsidiaries can't escape being overwhelmingly arbitrary,'' said Raymond Vernon, an international economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. ''For that reason, I cannot take the Department of Commerce figures at face value.''
Neither does the Internal Revenue Service, which announced recently that it was examining the returns of many American subsidiaries of foreign companies to determine whether they had understated their profits in recent years and had underpaid their taxes by as much as $12 billion.
One motive of these companies might have been to escape a corporate tax rate that was among the highest in the industrial world until the 1986 tax law reduced the rate sharply and presumably eliminated an important reason for understating United States profits.
Norman Glickman, a Rutgers University economist who was the co-author of a book on foreign investment, offers an illustration of one important way in which global companies understate profits: A German or Japanese computer manufacturer might have a factory in Malaysia that makes chips and another factory in the United States that imports the chips to make a computer. But instead of being charged $10 for each chip, the price an outsider would pay, the American subsidiary shows on its books an intracompany charge of $20.
This higher ''transfer price'' results in more profit for the Malaysian subsidiary and less for the subsidiary in this country. But by showing the profit in Malaysia rather than the United States, the parent makes more money because the corporate tax rate in Malaysia, in this hypothetical example, is lower than the one in the United States. ''That's one reason for the low return on foreign investment in the United States,'' Mr. Glickman said, ''but by no means the only one.''
The Commerce Department data seem to bear him out. The corporate tax rate in the United States fell sharply as of 1987, presumably removing a main reason for holding down profits reported within the country. But the pretax return on foreign direct investment has averaged only about 4 percent a year since 1982, and did not rise in the last three years. Finally, the 4 percent is only half of what American-owned companies earned on their investments within this country in the same period.
Transfer pricing might be one reason for this. But for most experts, another factor is the expensive, highly advanced factories that foreign companies have tended to put in the United States -factories that take awhile to pay off. Whatever the reasons, profits and tax payments are probably not the best guidelines for judging the value of foreign investment.
''The answer to that question is whether the country would be better off without the investment,'' Mr. Vernon, of Harvard, said. ''Does a cluster of Japanese auto factories keep car prices down, improve worker productivity and bring technology to the country? Probably it does.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL COS LLC (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TAX LAW (65%); WRITERS (63%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



236 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rise 3.93% in Tokyo

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, April 9

 BODY:
The primary index on the Tokyo Stock Exchange surged nearly 4 percent this afternoon, helped by the yen's rebound against the dollar.
The Nikkei average of 225 issues gained 1,150.93 points, or 3.93 percent, to 30,429.71 in late-afternoon trading. It ended the morning session up by 886.67 points, or by 3.03 percent, to 30,165.45. The index last exceeded 30,000 points on March 29 with a close of 31,026.16.
On Friday, the Nikkei gained 1,029.72 points, its fourth-largest daily advance.
''Buy orders are appearing for a broad range of issues,'' said Toshiyuki Nishiguchi, an equities analyst with Daiwa Securities.
Mr. Nishiguchi said the market had responded favorably to talks between the United States and Japan on lifting restrictive trade policies and to a meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized countries, both held last week.
Monetary authorities from the seven nations - Britain, Canada, France, West Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States - agreed in their meeting in Paris on Saturday that the yen's recent downswing could have ''undesirable consequences.''
They also promised to keep the exchange markets under review and renewed their commitment to coordinate economic policies, including cooperation in exchange markets.
The dollar ended the morning session at 156.55 yen, up by 0.75 yen from its opening at 155.80 yen. After opening at 1.67 yen lower than its close of 157.47 yen on Friday, the currency fell as low as 155.60 yen and rose as high as 156.90 yen during today's trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAWA (PAR) (56%); DAI (LSE) (56%); 8601 (TSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (52%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES GROUP INC (56%); TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE JAPANESE YEN (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (70%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: TOSHIYUKI NISHIGUCHI (83%); 



237 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Airline Fares Are Defended

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8

 BODY:
United States air passengers are being offered more flights at lower fares than in the mid-1980's even though there are fewer airlines, a Transportation Department official said last week.
''Deregulation works,'' Jeffrey Shane, an Assistant Transportation Secretary, told a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on Thursday. ''Any effort to re-regulate would do more harm than good.''
Mr. Shane said that even though the number of leading airlines has fallen from 16 to 8 since 1984, there are more flights and fares have declined 15 percent after adjusting for inflation.
But some senators expressed uneasiness that the eight airlines control 90 percent of United States air traffic and that individual airlines often dominate business at their hub airports.
The committee is considering a bill that would require operating slots to be regularly reallocated at the most restricted airports: Kennedy and La Guardia in New York, O'Hare in Chicago and National in Washington. Mr. Shane said the bill would not solve capacity problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); AIR FARES (90%); LEGISLATION (87%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



238 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Browning-Ferris's Strategic Retreat

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder

 BODY:
NO one disputes that hazardous-waste disposal is a huge, lucrative market destined to become much larger. Nevertheless, Wall Street's first reaction was decidedly upbeat when Browning-Ferris Industries said after trading ended Thursday that it would bail out of the business.
In the Thursday announcement, the Houston-based company said it would take a $295 million after-tax charge against earnings to cover the cost of discontinuing hazardous-waste operations. In Friday trading, its shares rose $1.50 to $37.875 in heavy volume on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Although Browning-Ferris is the nation's second-largest waste handling enterprise after Waste Management Inc. and has been one of Wall Street's favorite growth stocks for much of the past decade, the company encountered a series of problems in its attempt to follow Waste Management into the hazardous-waste field.
''Browning-Ferris screwed up that business ever since they got into it in the late 1970's,'' said Kay Hahn, an analyst of environmental stocks at the Chicago Corporation. Such assessments were highlighted by a second announcement on Thursday that Browning-Ferris had pleaded guilty to one criminal count of violating Ohio's environmental laws at its hazardous-waste disposal site near Cincinnati. The company was fined $25,000 and agreed to pay $3.5 million to settle related civil claims.
The write-off, which equals $1.93 a share, will be taken in the company's second quarter, which ended March 31. It will leave the company narrowly profitable for the year, many analysts project. That's a stiff price to pay for shedding operations that account for just 2 percent of the company's revenue, but good news for investors, the analysts say.
''It's now the best stock in the waste-handling group,'' said Vishnu Swarup, who follows environmental stocks for Prudential-Bache Securities. ''It could move to the low 40's in the near term.''
Behind such thinking is the view that Browning-Ferris's decision marked an overdue recognition that the company had made too many missteps in the hazardous-waste field ever to regain its footing at a reasonable cost. By pulling the plug on Cecos International Inc., its hazardous-waste subsidiary, Browning-Ferris is now free to concentrate on expanding its highly successful solid-waste business.
''It was a good buy before, but now it's better,'' said Douglas Augenthaler, who follows the company for Oppenheimer & Company. Mr. Augenthaler said the write-off would add $255 million to cash flow this year by sheltering operating income from taxes. He also said he saw a good chance that the share price would rise to $41 by summer, allowing the company to call $345 million in convertible debentures and reduce its debt to close to historic levels.
''This stock is selling at a 10 percent discount to the market based on projected 1991 numbers,'' Mr. Augenthaler said. ''That doesn't make sense. It's a growth stock with steady cash flow and strong resistance to the effects of any recession.''
To be sure, some analysts are less enthusiastic. ''The focus on solid waste going forward is positive, but I'm concerned about their financial flexibility,'' said Marc H. Sulam, who follows environmental stocks for Kidder Peabody. ''I don't think they will outperform the market over the next nine months.''
Another doubter, Richard F. Rossi of Dean Witter Reynolds, said, ''I don't think anybody can be really confident at this juncture that the reserves are adequate'' to cover the actual costs in coming years of closing Cecos's discontinued operations and cleaning up the sites.
Perhaps the most negative assessment has come from Scott Jay Wollins, who follows environmental stocks for Tucker, Anthony Inc. in Boston and had been recommending that investors sell Browning-Ferris even before Friday's price jump.
''People will come to view that jump as temporary insanity,'' he predicted. ''They are abandoning the business that will provide the greatest earnings opportunity in the environmental field over the next 20 or 30 years. It shows their inability to diversify and general management problems. We wouldn't buy the stock until it got down to $26.''
But the analysts seem unanimous in one conclusion: that Browning-Ferris's hazardous-waste woes say little about the prospects of other waste disposal companies. Because Cecos's operations had already become so constrained by its ongoing run-ins with regulators, its disappearance is expected to have little impact.
Cecos does have one jewel though - a huge disposal site scheduled to open in May, 70 miles east of Denver. Analysts say that Chemical Waste Management Inc., the publicly traded hazardous-waste subsidiary of Waste Management Inc., might be blocked from bidding for the site by antitrust regulations. That could provide Laidlaw of Canada, the second-largest hazardous-waste handler in the United States, with a golden strategic opportunity to close the gap.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (83%); RSG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (83%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (83%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (83%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (83%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (83%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (83%); CHICAGO CORP (68%); CECOS INTERNATIONAL INC (62%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (60%); REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES INC

SUBJECT: WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (91%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J DOUGLAS AUGENTHALER (59%); 



239 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Spate of New Offerings Undercuts Bond Prices

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Credit market analysts say a heavy schedule of new Treasury borrowings over the next month is likely to offset any positive effect of a slowing of economic growth and inflation.
As a consequence, long-term interest rates are likely to remain in the relatively narrow trading range of 8.50 percent to 8.70 percent that they have occupied for the last six weeks or so.
A rising supply of new securities in the market usually tends to put upward pressure on interest rates.
Late Friday, yields on the Treasury's closely watched 8 1/2 percent bonds of 2020 stood at 8.51 percent, the low end of the range. $40 Billion on Schedule Through mid-May, the Treasury is expected to sell more than $40 billion of new intermediate- to long-term securities. Moreover, the size of the weekly auctions of three-month and six-month bills has been raised to $13.4 billion, from $13 billion. 
The heavy debt load, prompted in large measure by the rising needs of the Resolution Funding Corporation to finance the bailout of the nation's savings and loan industry, comes at the time of year when heavy income-tax payments usually reduce the Treasury's need for new cash.
''It will be another month before the market will want to behave well,'' said Robert A. Brusca, the chief economist at Nikko Securities International. ''There are just too many securities that will be sold over that period to enable rates to soften. But then I think we will see further evidence of a weaker economy.''
Rates would then come down, he added.
 
Effect of Jobs Data
March employment data, which were much weaker than expected, have made the task of coping with the coming supply somewhat easier.
Although nonfarm payroll employment rose by 26,000 jobs last month, the lowest monthly increase since June of 1986, the figure would have been negative if 58,000 Census workers had not been added.
The weak report followed two months of strong employment gains distorted by unseasonably warm weather.
As a result of the March figures, ''the fear that developed in response to the strong January and February numbers that the economy was growing too fast will dissipate,'' said John R. Williams, a managing director at the Bankers Trust Company.
Bad news for the economy is good news for the fixed-income Government securities markets because signs of economic strength raise inflation fears and higher inflation means lower real rates of return on the securities.
 
Reports on Sales and Prices
Economic data for March, including reports this week on retail sales and producer prices, should improve the market's tone somewhat, Mr. Williams said. But he and other analysts agreed that the figures will not be soft enough to persuade the Federal Reserve Board to alter its stance on monetary policy.
''We do not expect any change in policy until late in the second quarter or early in the third quarter,'' analysts at MMS International, an economic information and forecasting firm, wrote late last week. ''By that time, the need for further easing will be apparent.''
Most economists are projecting that because of falling energy prices,producer prices rose by only one-tenth to two-tenths of a percentage point last month, after an increase of four-tenths of a percentage point in February. Excluding the volatile food and energy sectors, producer prices probably rose by three-tenths of a point in March, most analysts say.
 
Watching Foreign Exchange
In addition to the Resolution Funding Corporation's bond sale this week, the credit markets will pay close attention to developments in the foreign exchange markets, where any immediate substantive results from the weekend meeting of the Group of Seven nations are most likely to be seen.
Specifically, bond traders will be looking for weakness in the dollar's value against the Japanese yen after the Paris meeting. The finance ministers and central bankers issued a communique after their meeting expressing concern about the fall of the yen and said they had agreed to ''keep these developments under review.''
Neither Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady nor the officials of other countries would state specifically what had been decided at the meeting.
The Group of Seven nations are the United States, Japan, Britain, Canada, France, West Germany and Italy. The ministers generally meet three times a year to review economic conditions around the world with the aim of keeping international markets on a steady course.
The Treasury auctions begin on Tuesday, when $3.5 billion worth of 40-year Resolution Funding bonds will be sold. They continue on Wednesday, with the auction of $7.5 billion worth of new seven-year notes. In early May, the Treasury is expected to sell some $30 billion of notes and bonds at its regular quarterly refunding auctions.
 
Bigger Response Expected
The first sale of the 40-year Resolution Funding bonds in January was an unqualified disaster and was one factor that helped to drive up interest rates in the first quarter.
This time, however, traders and analysts say they expect a stronger response.
''I think the Refcorp issue will be well received,'' Mr. Brusca said. ''Interest rates are at a higher level now than they were then, the inflation picture is likely to improve, and the economy looks a little weaker. In short, the investment environment is more favorable, and that makes the environment for these 40-year bonds more favorable.''
Bond traders added that the reduced size of the offering, from the $5 billion sold in January, should prove beneficial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (51%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (55%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; CREDIT BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); CENSUS (66%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%); RETAIL SALES (60%); INCOME TAX (51%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



240 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
International Trade Group Reorganizes

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG

 BODY:
IN an effort to raise its profile to the level of other advertising trade groups, the International Advertising Association announced a management reorganization on Friday that will bring the group its first full-time professional leadership.
The association named Norman Vale, who was until January managing director of Grey International, to be its first director general. Richard Corner, a former executive at Ogilvy & Mather and the Philip Morris Companies in Europe, who has been the association's acting executive director since November, will serve as executive director of the organization. 
The association, which is based in New York, represents marketers, ad agencies and communications companies in 77 countries. But unlike the leading American advertising trade organizations, which have long had full-time senior managers to oversee operations and serve as industry spokesmen, the international association has vested much of its operational authority in a part-time president elected from the ranks of senior corporate or agency management.
Members say the president's responsibility to his regular job has hindered efforts to build the organization.
''With Norman Vale, we can take a lot of the weight off the shoulders of the elected president,'' said Clay S. Timon, the head of worldwide advertising for the Colgate-Palmolive Company and the association's current president. He drew an analogy between Mr. Vale's new role and that of the head of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. ''Like John O'Toole of the 4A's, he is the man to be called on to be truly a spokesman,'' Mr. Timon said. ''As elected president, I was not good at that, because I work for Colgate.''
The association's decision to enhance its management comes at a crucial time for the advertising industry around the world. The scheduled elimination of trade barriers in Western Europe in 1992 and the development of market economies in Eastern Europe are flooding that continent with advertisers, agencies and media companies. Likewise, the development of Asian economies continues to draw increasing advertiser interest.
But, particularly in Western Europe, the pending opening of borders is also inciting a drive among some governments to regulate the content of advertising. The French Government, for example, has proposed banning tobacco advertising and the sponsorship of events by tobacco companies, and restricting the advertising of alcoholic beverages. While concerns for public health are behind some of the legislative efforts, the association executives contend that some Governments see advertising restrictions as a way to protect their own established industries, many of which are state-owned, from competition from foreign companies once the trade barriers fall.
The association's leaders say that with professional, centralized management, their organization can wage a fight against regulation by conducting and disseminating research on the effect of advertising restrictions in the countries that have enacted them.
''More critical than simply providing information,'' said Mr. Vale, who is 60 years old, ''we can and should become the world resource for assisting governments and people in the communications business to protect freedom of commercial speech.''
The new managers also say the association can act more effectively as a clearinghouse for information that will help member companies expand their operations globally. As an example, Mr. Corner, 56, noted that the association had recently helped a British newspaper find an advertising sales representative in the United States.
These two sides to global marketing - expansion and censorship -will be the main topics at the association's biannual convention, which is scheduled to be held in Hamburg, West Germany, from June 10 to 13.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Vale, who was named director-general of the International Advertising Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (83%); CL (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (83%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (83%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (82%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); ADVERTISING ASSOCIATION (93%); ADVERTISING ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ADVERTISING ASSN

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (65%); 

PERSON: NORMAN VALE (75%); RICHARD CORNER (60%); CLAY S TIMON (60%); 



241 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: As Gridlock Mounts, Region Buys More Cars

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
The number of motor vehicles registered in the New York metropolitan region has risen more than 25 percent since 1980, planners say, and some suburbs will soon approach the unenviable position of having as many vehicles as people.
The increase came as the region's population grew only modestly and in spite of traffic that is among the worst in the nation.
Planners attribute the surge in cars, trucks and vans largely to a revitalized economy that generated more jobs, drew more people into the work force and pushed incomes up. Some also said that the growing reliance on motor vehicles showed that mass transit in the region does not take some commuters where they need to go, especially in the suburbs.
 
A 'Precipitous' Rise
Since 1980, there have been 2.5 million more vehicles registered in New York City and the 26 counties that surround it in New York, northern New Jersey and Connecticut, according to calculations by the Regional Plan Association. The increase in the number of vehicles in the region is the largest since the internal combustion engine was invented. 
In a report commissioned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to help in its planning, the association called the rise ''precipitous.''
The size of the increase was considered a surprise. The percentage of additional vehicles in the 1970's was half that of the previous few decades, and given the uncertain economic outlook and congestion then, the growth rate had been expected to stay about the same or even decline.
 
'Disaster on Our Hands'
''Instead of flattening, the curve suddenly kicked up,'' said Boris Pushkarev, former vice president for research and planning for the association, a Manhattan-based research group.
The metropolitan area is expected to become even more clogged with cars in coming years. The association believes there are likely to be 38 percent more motor vehicles in the region by 2005 and 50 percent more by 2015.
Asked about the impact of such an increase, Robert R. Kiley, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said that unless more measures were adopted to manage the growth of vehicles ''we'll have a disaster on our hands.'' Mr. Kiley and others have called for an increase in the gasoline tax, to raise money for transportation projects and, perhaps, to discourage driving.
To many in the region, traffic might already seem like a disaster. The Long Island Expressway already accommodates twice the number of vehicles for which it was designed. On the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, the Kosciuszko Bridge now carries 30,000 vehicles per lane a day, the plan association said. Hourlong waits to cross the Hudson River into Manhattan are common.
''Even reverse commuters are running into problems,'' said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group based in New York.
Mr. Goldstein noted that New York City has failed to meet standards adopted by the Federal Government in the early 1970's for certain automobile pollutants. ''If traffic keeps increasing,'' he said, ''we may never achieve national health standards.''
 
Commuter Train Ridership Up
Projections by the plan association showed that the number of vehicles registered since 1980 rose 41 percent in the city's northern suburbs, 28 percent in Connecticut, 27 percent in New York City, 26 percent in northern New Jersey and 23 percent on Long Island.
The plan association defines the New York metropolitan region as stretching from New Haven County, Conn., in the east to Warren County, N.J., in the west, from Ocean County, N.J., in the south to Ulster County, N.Y., in the north.
In the mid-1980's, the growth rate for vehicles was greater in New York City than in those areas, a trend Mr. Pushkarev said was probably the result of higher incomes and the poor performance of the subway system before the current rebuilding program.
But there seems little doubt that the suburbs will bear much of the brunt of the additional vehicles in the future.
Automobile trips into mid- and downtown Manhattan are increasing slower than they were several years ago, at least in part because of congestion. The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, has classified congestion in New York City as the third worst in the nation, behind Houston and New Orleans. At the same time, ridership has risen on the Metro-North Commuter Railroad and the Long Island Rail Road. #80 Vehicles Per 100 Residents By 2005, commuting into Manhattan is expected to increase by 13 percent, but commuting within suburban counties is expected to rise 22 percent and commuting between suburban counties is expected to increase 28 percent.
The plan association believes that at that time the number of motor vehicles in the metropolitan region will exceed 15.4 million, almost 4 million more than there are now. Mr. Pushkarev said the projection was based on the historic relationship between vehicle ownership and the per capita income in the region, which has been rising since World War II and is expected to continue to do so.
Planners and transportation officials say the number of motor vehicles is rising throughout the nation. But the trend seems particularly worrisome in the New York region, since the city's wealthier suburbs have traditionally had high rates of car ownership.
On Long Island and in the northern New York suburbs, for example, there already are more than 80 vehicles per 100 residents - a level planners say rivals that of California and other car-clogged parts of the country.
 
Three Car Families
''We observed that auto registration has far outpaced population growth,'' said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. ''Now, both husband and wife work. That's at least two, maybe three cars. And if there are any teen-age children, you can add cars for them.''
Some suburban commuters have little alternative to the car. The L.I.R.R., for example, runs mainly east and west, but many people need to travel north and south to get to jobs in Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
Planners also note that many of the new suburban office complexes were not built along rail lines.
As for bus service, Mr. Koppelman said that ''in Suffolk, on some of the routes, you can wait an hour between runs.''
''You don't encourage a lot of people to take buses if they have to stand in the cold and rain and heat and wait,'' he said.
 
Just Catching Up
Lanes are being added to the Long Island Expressway and other highway projects are under way or envisioned. But Mr. Koppleman said they will ''just catch up with the traffic that's already there.'' He said he hoped the Island's relatively stable population and the trends toward flexible work schedules and more home offices would ease traffic growth.
Mr. Kiley said he believed that measures to limit traffic on some highways and bridges, like tolls, were overdue.
The transportation authority is spending $16.2 billion largely to rehabilitate the region's transit lines that exist now. It is seeking another $10 billion to $15 billion to continue its rebuilding effort and also to begin to expand the transportation system. Projects under consideration include the extension of a subway or rail line from New York City to New Jersey, rail links to Kennedy and La Guardia International Airports and resumption of work on the Second Avenue subway line, which has been mothballed.
But it is far from certain how much money will be available to the transporation authority, since one of its major sources, New York State, is experiencing huge budget gaps.
Mr. Goldstein said that additional financing for the expansion of transit lines could be raised by increasing the state tax on gasoline.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has already raised the possibility of a gasoline tax increase to help solve the state's fiscal problems.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the number of motor vehicles registered in New York City registered in New York City and its 26 surrounding counties in three states (source: Regional Plan Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AUTOMOBILE REGISTRATION AND LICENSES VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); SUBURBS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); FUEL TAX (50%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD



242 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: OBSCURE ENGINEER NOW THE FAVORITE TO LEAD PERUVIANS

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 9

 BODY:
Alberto Fujimori, an once little-known obscure agricultural engineer who campaigned in traditional Japanese robes, displaced the novelist Mario Vargas Llosa today as the favorite to become Peru's next President.
''If the vote were this week, Fujimori would win this election,'' said Manuel Torrado Bermejo, the head of a polling company, echoing the analysis of other polling experts, politicians and diplomats interviewed here today.
The latest projections from a study of votes cast in 200 precincts on Sunday gave 31 percent to Mr. Vargas Llosa and 29 percent to Mr. Fujimori, whose parents were Japanese immigrants. But 25 percent of the vote was split among three leftist parties. Alienated by Mr. Vargas Llosa's free-market economics, those voters are expected to throw their weight behind his vaguely centrist opponent in a runoff to be held within eight weeks. 
 
Pullout Is Rumored
Final official results of Sunday's voting will not be known until April 20, but the projections of leading polling organizations are widely accepted here.
Rumors raced through this capital today that Mr. Vargas Llosa might quit the race. The 54-year-old writer made no public statements and remained with advisers and family members in his home overlooking the Pacific Ocean.
''A lot of people are worried that Mario will pull out,'' said a Western diplomat, recalling that last May the novelist quit the race briefly in disgust over infighting among his supporters.
 
Ruling Party Fares Badly
In contrast, the ebullient Mr. Fujimori, who six weeks ago scored only 3 percent in public opinion polls, repeated his determination to stay in the race.
''If you were Fujimori, two points short of Vargas Llosa and the polls were saying you could win, would you give up?'' a diplomat asked.
The ruling left-of-center Aprista party of the departing President, Alan Garcia, fared poorly; its candidate, Luis Alva Castro, received little more than 16 percent of the vote.
The party, one of the three whose supporters are seen as pivotal in the runoff, today appeared to give a boost to Mr. Fujimori's candidacy when a leading member, Luis Alvarado, said, ''The support of the Apristas for Mr. Fujimori is implicit.'' Mr. Alvarado, who is President of the lower house of Congress, added that the party could formally endorse Mr. Fujimori.
 
'Blew Up in Our Faces'
Today, political analysts tried to come to grips with the sudden emergence of what is called the ''Fujimori phenomenon.''
''This blew up in our faces,'' said Saul Mankevich, general manager of Mr. Torrado's polling organization, Datum.
Across town at the American Embassy, a diplomat said with self-deprecating humor, ''We don't know anyone on Fujimori's list - another victory for American diplomacy.''
In contrast to Mr. Vargas Llosa, who proposed a free-market ''shock'' program for Peru's economy, Mr. Fujimori presented himself as a centrist and a consensus builder. He first achieved a moderate amount of notice here in the late 1980's when he was host of a television program called ''Concertando'' - roughly ''working things out.''
Until entering politics last year, Mr. Fujimori was president of the Agrarian University and president of Peru's National Association of College Presidents.
 
Japanese Roots Emphasized
To gain attention in a field of nine candidates, Mr. Fujimori emphasized his Japanese roots. His parents immigrated here from Japan in the early 1930's. Claiming to be the direct descendant of an illustrious samurai, the 51-year-old bespectacled engineer posed for campaign photographs wearing Japanese robes and waving a samurai sword.
In one recent public opinion poll here, 33 percent of respondents cited Japan as the country they admired most. Mr. Fujimori promised to bring Japanese investment and technology to this Pacific basin country. The bulk of Peru's Japanese are concentrated in Lima and numbers abou 10,000.
With the slogan ''Work, Technology and Honesty,'' Mr. Fujimori, a Roman Catholic, attracted campaign support from Evangelical Christians.
Today, he said he would form a Government of ''experts,'' and he sketched an economic program that would revive agriculture and retain large state companies under public ownership.
 
'Only Loose Ideas'
''Behind the Fujimori candidacy there is no Government program -only loose ideas and isolated proposals,'' La Republica, a Lima newspaper that backs his candidacy, wrote today.
The candidate has proposed easing Peru's terrorism problem by easing rural ''misery.'' He does not appear to have a public position on Peru's coca leaf cultivation - a major concern in the anti-drug strategy of the United States Government. In 1988, when Mr. Fujimori was president of the Agrarian University, the institution declined a United States Embassy invitation to serve as an impartial evaluator of a coca plant herbicide.
The candidate, who did postgraduate work at the University of Wisconsin and at the University of Strasbourg, speaks Spanish, French, English and Japanese. But no elected office appears on his resume, printed by his political party, Change 90, which was formally registered only in September.
Political skills will be needed if he is elected. Projections from the congressional vote on Sunday give Mr. Vargas Llosa's Democratic Front the largest block in Congress - about one-third of all seats.
Mr. Vargas Llosa's electoral collapse appears to have occurred in inverse proportion to the rise in his popularity overseas generated by his candidacy.
 
A Sharp Drop in Support
A New York-based political consulting company, the Sawyer/Miller Group, advised his campaign, reportedly for a $1 million fee. In the six months of its consultancy, Mr. Vargas Llosa's popularity ratings dropped by half - from 61 percent to 32 percent today. The Americans complained that the candidate did not listen to their advice; Peruvian campaign experts said that several of the American consultants did not speak Spanish.
The foreign glitter around the Vargas Llosa campaign may have alienated an impoverished electorate composed largely of people of mixed Spanish and Indian blood. President Garcia is known to harbor a personal dislike for Mr. Vargas Llosa.
Some of the novelist's supporters winced Sunday night when a French reporter asked the opening questioning in a nationally televised press conference and the novelist responded in French.
''Vargas Llosa also associated in public with the right, with the rich, with the whites,'' Mr. Torrado said.
He cited a $100,000 television advertisement that featured Roxana Valdivieso, a singer with entirely European features, who sang a dreamy love ballad to Peru, backed by a supporting cast of 2,000. Deemed to miss the mark, the advertisement was pulled after 10 days.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alberto Fujimori has become the favorite in Peru's presidential campaign. He posed yesterday in Lima with his wife, Susana, and children. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FAMILY (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); 

PERSON: VARGAS LLOSA, MARIO; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO ALBERTO FUJIMORI (93%); 



243 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9

 
Doubt over Moscow's economic plan persists. The Deputy Prime Minister, who was to have submitted a package of ''radical'' economic proposals to President Gorbachev, was still talking of alternatives. Page A1

 
Further measures against Lithuania will be taken, Mikhail Gorbachev's new Presidential Council announced, after rejecting as ''a dead end'' the republic's latest attempt to explain its declaration of independence. A1

 
Reporter's Notebook: Georgians remember 19 lost a year ago
 A8

 
News analysis: A united Germany under NATO might be paying Soviet troops to stay on its soil alongside American forces - if current thinking prevails. A1 
 
 
East Germany's leaders reach pact on ''grand coalition''
 A9

 
The next Prime Minister of Hungary, Jozsef Antall, said the results from Sunday's elections show Hungarians want a center-right coalition, bonded by anti-Communism. A8

 
Eastern European leaders meet to discuss ways to integrate
 A9

 
A new Greek government emerged, as the leader of the New Democracy Party, which won Sunday's election, secured the backing of an independent rightist to build the first conservative government in nine years. A3

 
An I.R.A. bomb killed four soldiers in Northern Ireland. The attack on a British Army patrol south of Belfast was the bloodiest in the province this year. A3

 
Officials fear death toll on North Sea ferry could rise A6

 
Celebrations spread across Nepal, as hundreds of thousands flooded the streets to welcome King Birendra's lifting of a three-decade ban on political activities. A7

 
Iraq expelled an American diplomat in retaliation for Washington's expulsion last week of an Iraqi diplomat linked to a plot to kill opponents of President Hussein. A5

 
A new favorite has emerged in Peru, displacing Mario Vargas Llosa in the race for President. Polling experts predict that Alberto Fujimori, who finished second to Mr. Vargas Llosa in Sunday's voting, will win the runoff election. A1

 
A recession is surging through Brazil only three weeks after the country's new President ordered a radical program to contain rampant inflation. Sales are falling, and workers are being laid off. D1

 
Panama Journal: Noriega's legacy of trafficking in people
 A4

 
National A10-19, D20

 
Homosexuals in the Armed Forces lead desperate, furtive lives. Those who have openly confronted the military's ban have been frustrated, while thousands of others carefully guard their secret. A1

 
The President's judicial selections have been as conservative as President Ronald Reagan's, although he has eliminated the elaborate screening apparatus that Mr. Reagan used to ensure judicial conservatism. A1

 
Well-to-do youths are joining gangs at a growing rate. Their dalliance, as innocent as a fashion statement or as deadly as drug dealing, defies the usual socioeconomic explanations of why people join gangs. A10

 
The draft of a Vatican document outlining the central beliefs of the Roman Catholic Church to guide the teaching of new members has been severely criticized by a committee of bishops in the United States. A10

 
Prosecutors in the Iran-contra case are checking leads from the Poindexter and North trials to decide whether other Reagan Administration officials hid their knowledge of the affair from Congress. A11

 
Washington at Work: Jesse Jackson has spent his career on the cutting edge of history. But many say his decision not to run for Mayor of the District of Columbia means he will remain stalled on the fringe. A12

 
Exxon says it would plead not guilty to five indictments
 A11

 
Greyhound sues union, pointing to violence A19

 
MCI announces $1.25 billion pact to buy Telecom USA
 D1

 
Insurance carriers liable for asbestos claims D1

 
Comiskey Journal: Memory of a ballpark will outlive its bricks
 A10

 
Regional B1-4

Traffic is clogging New York City and surrounding suburbs, some of which may soon have more cars than people. The number of vehicles registered in the region has risen more than 25 percent since 1980. A1

 
Delays on the Long Island Rail Road of up to 45 minutes were the result of a power surge that knocked out crucial signals and switches in Queens on the first night of Passover, one of the busiest days of the year. B1

 
New York's environmental bond act has been stalled by disagreements in Albany over how the $1.9 billion would be spent and an insistence by some lawmakers on a veto power over specific land purchases. B1

 
Fire damaged a historic church in Chelsea. Officials said the blaze may have been caused by workmen using a blow torch on the newly restored roof of the Episcopal Church of the Holy Apostles. B1

 
Federal agents are raiding bodegas and other businesses in Washington Heights, seizing large sums of cash and illegal weapons and prompting concern from merchants and community residents. B1
 
New York State charges 14 lawyers with tax evasion
 B3

 
Myers opposes clean needles to curb AIDS among drug addicts
 B4

 
New Jersey's new insurance law, pushed by Governor Florio to reduce premiums, was challenged by the Allstate Insurance Company in Federal District Court in Newark. B2

 
Judge rules out manslaughter in John E. List murder case
 B2

 
Marcos is said to have begged her husband for a skyscraper
 B2

 
Five whites plead guilty in attack on blacks in Rosedale
 B3

 
Daily News terminates contracts that expired March 30
 B3

 
Business Digest D1

 
Science Times

 
Gender bias said to persist among therapists C1

 
A scientist's four-decade dream to pay off in space telescope
 C1

 
Alchemists as scientists: a new view from historians C1

 
Thalidomide studied for use in a variety of diseases C3

 
The SST raises environmental issues, and NASA responds C4

 
Science Watch C2

 
Science Q&A C5

 
Peripherals C9

 
Personal Computers C7

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Songwriter becomes performer C11

 
Hidden meanings in a Japanese classic C11

 
Harlem troupe struggles with layoff C11

 
Theater: ''Lifetimes'' in Harlem C12

 
Music: Dixie Carter in cabaret C12

 
JVC Jazz Festival announces its schedule C13

 
Kent Nagano in Brooklyn C18

 
Word and Image
 
A John Mortimer sequel C15

 
Oxford delivers a book on humorous prose C16

 
Bid to prosecute Rushdie fails C16

 
Fashion B6
 
Sports

 
Baseball: Mets lose opener B7

 
Rocky start for Gooden
 B7

 
Mattingly becomes top earner
 B7

 
Basketball: N.B.A. Notebook
 B11

 
Columns: Vecsey on Mets' opener
 B7

 
On Horse Racing B11

 
Golf: Masters provides cruel reminder B11

 
Hockey: Gretzky back in form B10

 
LaFontaine has no bitterness B10

 
Blues savor 3-0 lead B10

 
Obituaries D20-21

 
John Henry Faulk, humorist who challenged blacklist D20

 
Leslie Combs, horse owner D21

 
Dr. Howard D. Abramowitz, fought Army discharge policy D21

 
George Strawbridge, leader of Philadelphia stockbrokerage
 D21

 
Sarah Vaughan funeral held in Newark D21

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 Editorials A20

 
False fears on Tokyo stocks
 
Light in El Salvador
 
The questions of summer
 
Dream, yes, but restore rights
 
Letters A20

 
Anthony Lewis: Revenge or reconciliation? A21

 
Flora Lewis: The Red grime line A21

 
Nathaniel Dunford: N.Y.C., true to form A21

 
John C. Chervokas: Vilnius to Moscow A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GEORGIA (57%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NORTH SEA (77%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (69%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ARMIES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%); GANGS (50%); FERRIES (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 



244 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Greek Right Gains One-Seat Majority

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATHENS, April 9

 BODY:
The leader of the New Democracy party, which emerged victorious from the Greek election, won the backing of an independent rightist today to secure narrow parliamentary support for the country's first conservative government in nine years.
Its principal challenges, most commentators agreed, will be to cement its hold and confront an economic crisis.
With returns from Sunday's election completed today, the New Democracy leader, Constantine Mitsotakis, champion of a rightist vision of economic change, had won 150 of the 300 seats in Parliament. His principal rival, the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement of former Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, had won 123. 
Of the rest, 19 went to an alliance of leftists and Communists, and two went to Muslim candidates from the small ethnic Turkish minority. One went to an ecological movement and four to candidates running on a joint Socialist-Communist ticket.
 
Rightist Pledges Support
One seat was won by a small party led by Costas Stephanopoulos, an independent rightist who pledged today to support Mr. Mitsotakis and thus give him a majority of 151 seats.
Mr. Stephanopoulos's announcement after a 45-minute meeting with Mr. Mitsotakis, commentators said, seemed to seal the demise of what has become known as the Papandreou era, a heady period of anti-Americanism and Socialist fervor that gave way to decline and scandal.
Some commentators said the one-seat majority injected a sense of fragility into the planned new government. The Greek stock market nonetheless soared by record margins when the announcement was made, reflecting a surge of business confidence.
Mr. Mitsokakis has promised to form a government by Wednesday. Its composition is not yet known, but the conservative leader, a 71-year-old veteran of Greek politics from the island of Crete and a longtime adversary of Mr. Papandreou, is expected to become prime minister.
 
Rivalry Dates to 1965
His dispute with Mr. Papandreou dates to 1965, when he and others withdrew from a liberal Government headed by Mr. Papandreou's father, George, to protest the son's radicalism. Greek leftists have since blamed the withdrawal for starting a period of instability that enabled the military to take over in 1967.
During seven years of military rule, Mr. Mitsotakis was detained briefly and then left the country, returning when civilian rule was restored in 1974. He joined New Democracy in 1978 and was Minister of Economic Coordination and of Foreign Affairs before the conservatives lost power to Mr. Papandreou in 1981. He became leader of New Democracy in 1985.
The election Sunday was the third in Greece since the collapse of Mr. Papandreou's scandal-steeped administration last June.
''I think a lot of people were getting tired of the uncertainty, and they diverted their votes to what seemed to be the winner so that there would be a government,'' said Adamantios Pepelasas, a former financier and respected commentator and economist.
 
Papandreou's Electoral System
The results, however, robbed Mr. Mitsotakis of the unambiguous victory he had sought, reflecting an electoral system designed by Mr. Papandreou to give his smaller allies greater parliamentary influence.
New Democracy officials and commentators said one priority of a Mitsotakis government could be to follow a traditional practice by changing the electoral law and to seek a more substantial parliamentary majority.
Some commentators argue that the authorities will need a strong base to pursue unpopular economic measures.
''The economy is in a bad way, and a frontal attack is required,'' Mr. Pepelasas said. ''We must deal with it brutally.''
Technically, an investment analyst said, the Greek economy is ''in a mess.'' But the formal economy that appears on the state ledgers accounts for only about half the country's economic activity. The rest is conducted on an underground cash economy where tax evasion is routine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); NEW DEMOCRACY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREECE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; MITSOTAKIS, CONSTANTINE; STEPHANOPOULOS, COSTAS CONSTANTINE MITSOTAKIS (92%); ANDREAS GEORGE PAPANDREOU (71%); 



245 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Panama Journal;
Trafficking in People: Was It One More Racket?

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
No sooner do the doors of Panama's Department of Immigration and Naturalization open for business than the waiting room fills to overflowing with dozens of anxious Chinese, accompanied by lawyers or interpreters and talking nervously among themselves in Mandarin, Cantonese or Hakka.
Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega may have been driven from power, but the daily confusion at immigration headquarters here constitutes perhaps his most bizarre legacy.
In the six years he was commander of the Panamanian Defense Forces and dictator of Panama, General Noriega, now in custody in Miami, was repeatedly accused of trafficking in drugs, arms and intelligence.
But it is now clear that he and his fellow officers also earned themselves several hundred million dollars by selling Panamanian visas, residency permits, identity cards and passports to thousands of foreigners, most of them Chinese citizens desperate to flee their troubled homeland. 
 
Sale of Documents Cut Off
With General Noriega gone, the country's new civilian Government, installed during the American invasion on Dec. 20, must cope with the consequences of what Roberto Troncoso, president of the Panamanian Committee on Human Rights, calls ''Noriega's wholesale trafficking in nationality.'' President Guillermo Endara's administration has already cut off the sale of Panamanian documents to Chinese abroad and now wants the thousands who are already here illegally to submit their papers to inspection, pack up and go home.
''These people are victims of the corruption of the previous Government,'' Soong Chang-chih, Taiwan's Ambassador to Panama, said of the flood of Asian newcomers, many of whom come to the immigration office here seeking guarantees that they will be allowed to stay. Many others have now gone underground.
''They are living 8 to 10 to an apartment,'' Mr. Soong said, ''unable because of the language barrier to work or to study, and terrified they will be expelled to the China mainland.''
Panamanian officials say the center of this extremely lucrative trade was the Panamanian Consulate in Hong Kong, where General Noriega's cousin Ciro Noriega was Consul General. Panamanian officials and Chinese immigrants say the going rate for a Panamanian tourist visa there was $5,000 to $7,000, payable in advance, plus $10,000 to $15,000 for a Panamanian identification card and passport, to be paid after arrival.
Mr. Soong estimated that 40,000 to 50,000 Chinese have arrived in this country of 2.4 million people since 1982. The Panamanian Government's figures show that slightly more than 20,000 have been admitted in the last five years. A few better-off Hong Kong Chinese have also arrived, worried about the British colony's return to Beijing's control in 1997.
 
A Source of Huge Profits
The flow rose dramatically last year, a result of the political unrest and Government crackdown in China and of General Noriega's eagerness to profit from that turmoil. Jose Chen Barria, the director of Panama's Department of Immigration and Naturalization, said 8,850 Chinese acquired Panamanian visas and entered the country by way of Hong Kong in the first 11 months of 1989, providing the Panamanian military with enormous profits.
''If you multiply that figure by $15,000 you will get a figure well over $100 million,'' said Mr. Chen, himself a member of Panama's large Chinese community, which first came when the Panama Canal was built.
Though the Chinese provided the largest source for the sale of Panamanian documents, General Noriega and his associates appear to have been engaged in the same business around the globe. Panamanian Government officials and diplomats here said 13,000 Cubans are in a situation similar to that of the Chinese, along with several thousand others, including Nicaraguans, Colombians, Indians, Pakistanis and Arabs.
To encourage the illegal Chinese immigrants to leave Panama, the new Government in January announced a ''voluntary repatriation program.'' But Mr. Chen said that in the first two months of the program only about 600 had accepted the offer, which expires April 15 and is expected to be followed by much harsher measures.
Members of the underground Chinese community that has sprung up here said they were reluctant to accept the offer because of conditions in China. A 38-year-old college professor from Shanghai who works as a cook here said he had arrived in October, disgusted by the Tiananmen massacre and hoping that his wife and two children would eventually be able to follow him. ''China has no future, and neither do I if I stay there,'' he said. ''My generation already lost a decade to the Cultural Revolution, and I want a new life, one with opportunity and without repression.''
Tony Zhu, a successful young businessman from Guangdong who recently bought a nightclub here, said he did not know what he would do when his Panamanian residence card expired this spring. He left China last April, but is worried because, he said, the Beijing authorities have learned that the company he ran made large donations to the protest movement. ''Everybody is worried about what is to become of us,'' he said.
Many of the Chinese say they are hoping that Mr. Endara and the legislature will grant an amnesty that will permit them to stay. But the Panamanian Government has ruled out any possibility of pardon.
''That would be an unpopular measure,'' Mr. Chen said. ''How are you going to sell an amnesty in a country whose economy is destroyed, with unemployment so high, on behalf of people who, when they are unable to get a job, fall into crime? Let them find another country to go to.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Panama's new Government has cut off the illegal sale of Panamanian visas, passports and residency permits. Foreigners, most of them Chinese citizens desperate to flee their troubled homeland, spent several hundred million dollars on documents during the administration of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. Immigrants crowd the Department of Immigration and Naturalization, trying to legalize their presence. (The New York Times/Roberto Armocida)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (98%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANAMA'S DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA; CHINA

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; VISAS; CITIZENSHIP; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IMMIGRATION (93%); NATURALIZATION (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (78%); CORRUPTION (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (75%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO; ENDARA, GUILLERMO (PRES) MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA (92%); JOSE CHEN BARRIA (61%); SOONG CHANG-CHIH (57%); 



246 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: False Fears About Japanese Stocks

 BODY:
Tokyo's financial markets are reeling. Since the beginning of the year, Japanese stocks have dropped almost 30 percent, the yen about 10 percent. Worried that the chaos would spread, the finance ministers of the U.S. and six other industrialized powers, meeting in Paris last weekend, put the issue at the top of their agenda. 
What did the ministers commit themselves to do? Nothing, which is exactly right.
Americans and Europeans have little to fear from financial turmoil in Japan. So far, Wall Street prices have not been affected. But even if U.S. stock and bond prices do start to fall, the Federal Reserve Board has ample tools - as it proved in 1987 - to keep the economy on track.
It's always hazardous to speculate on why stock markets move up and down. Yet part of the Tokyo collapse is surely due to higher Japanese interest rates, which make stocks more expensive to buy or hold. Whatever the reason, many Americans fear that the turbulence will spread to Wall Street and then to Main Street, causing output to fall and unemployment to rise.
These fears are unfounded. For one thing, the impact of collapsing stock prices in Tokyo on U.S. financial markets is uncertain. Some Japanese investors will sell U.S. stocks and bonds in order to meet margin calls at home. But others will buy U.S. stocks and bonds as a safer alternative to Japanese investments. This ''flight to quality'' helps explains the calm on Wall Street.
And in any case, a decline in stock prices need not affect the real economy of production and employment. To put the Tokyo plunge, 30 percent in three months, in perspective, recall that U.S. stock prices fell 20 percent in just one day, Oct. 19, 1987. Yet the U.S. suffered no economic downturn. The Federal Reserve Board pumped money into the economy, thereby lowering interest rates. The rally in bond prices offset part of the loss that investors suffered on stocks and spurred spending; the economy kept humming along.
If an alert Fed can insulate the economy from sudden, direct chaos on Wall Street, it can surely protect the economy from gradual, indirect chaos in Tokyo.
At the Paris meetings, the U.S. could have succumbed to Japanese pressure and agreed to prop up the yen. To do that, it would have to drive down domestic interest rates with a loose monetary policy, thereby making the dollar less attractive to hold. In all likelihood, that would succeed only in igniting domestic inflation. The U.S. was correct to reject the risky Japanese entreaty.
Financial chaos can and does hurt people. The 1987 crash shocked individuals whose wealth evaporated in hours - even though in many cases they have since recovered - and devastated the investment bankers who lost their jobs. New York City's regional economy has yet to recover. There will be similar victims this year in Tokyo.
But for the economy as a whole, the 1987 stock market collapse brought no tragedy. It showed that able policy makers can keep economies growing even when markets shrivel. Financial chaos never brings joy, but it need not deliver disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (91%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US FINANCIAL 15 SPLIT CORP (58%); U S FINANCIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); DISMISSALS (63%); 



247 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Why This Year Fashion's Thinking Green

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There is more to fashion's underpinnings than was cited in ''Fashion World's Green Movement'' (front page, March 25): the need for the ready-made clothing industry to survive.
The phenomenon of fashion developed in the middle of the 14th century when all clothing was custom-made. Artisans and artisanship developed to meet the new demand. Then fashion as a social process evolved as the rising middle classes demanded ''equal opportunity'' with the aristocracy.
A fashion trend is the result of a convergence of political, economic and other social factors and it meets a need for affiliation and value affirmation, particularly important in our heterogeneous, multiracial society.
Moreover, the article might have considered that many of the environment-conscious youths of the 60's are now executives holding decision-making power and are serious about saving the earth. Fashion is the expression of the latest political, artistic and literary ideas, the spirit of the period. If a designer wants to be considered among the vanguard, to be viable in the profession, he or she must take into account the new ideas.
Capitalizing on grass-roots commitment to ecology may have the concomitant consequence of raising public consciousness. It is possible that in our time the power of the image may be stronger than the power of the word, and ''ecology chic'' clothing may encourage greater awareness and an ongoing commitment to saving the earth. As Brendan Behan suggested, it was the wearing of the green that made the Irish in New York count.
 
RUTH P. RUBINSTEIN
Assistant Professor of Sociology
Fashion Institute of Technology
 New York, March 28, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION & APPAREL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); READY TO WEAR (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); 

PERSON: RUBINSTEIN, RUTH P



248 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2166 words

HEADLINE: For a Space Visionary, Persistence Nears Payoff

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla., April 9

 BODY:
At 75, Dr. Lyman Spitzer Jr., professor emeritus of astrophysics at Princeton University, has a string of scientific accomplishments behind him. He had a leading role in the development of sonar in World War II and of in early concepts for controlled fusion energy.
But what may be his most lasting contribution is sitting on a launching pad here: the Hubble Space Telescope, set for liftoff Tuesday morning to an orbit where it will view the heavens almost to the edge of the universe. The first detailed ideas for a large space telescope were Dr. Spitzer's, and over the years his tenacious advocacy won over astronomers, fought off budget cutters and sustained the project through adversity and repeated delays.
This tall, lean professor has never shied away from the big problems of science and technology requiring bold and imaginative solutions. ''I have a weakness of character - a fascination with the spectacular,'' Dr. Spitzer likes to say of himself. ''But then I have a sort of theory about our weaknesses being our strengths.'' 
To be sure, the $2.1 -billion project, the most expensive and complex undertaking in unmanned space science to date, has grown beyond the embrace of any one person. It has become a manifestation of big science, involving vast teams of researchers and technicians, enormous costs, fierce competition and bureaucratization.
But everyone associated with the project acknowledges Dr. Spitzer as the intellectual and political father of the Hubble telescope.
''He's been the driving force from the very beginning,'' said Dr. Jeremiah Ostriker, chairman of the astrophysics department at Princeton.
In a history of the project, ''Space Telescope: A Study of NASA, Science, Technology and Politics,'' published this month, Dr. Robert W. Smith, a historian at the National Air and Space Museum, writes that Dr. Spitzer's ''involvement in arguing for, justifying, and then helping to develop the space telescope stretches back longer than the commitment of anyone else.''
''Lyman has been the father-spirit of the project,'' added Dr. Charles J. Pellerin Jr., director of astrophysics for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Forty-four years ago, when the German rockets of World War II had awakened people to the possibilities of space flight, Dr. Spitzer elaborated on the value of placing a large telescope in orbit high above Earth's obscuring and distorting atmosphere. He did this as an addendum, entitled ''Astronomical Advantages of an Extraterrestrial Observatory,'' to a 1946 study of artificial Earth satellites conducted by the Rand Corporation for the Air Force.
''Such a scientific tool,'' he wrote, ''could revolutionize astronomical techniques and open up completely new vistas of astronomical research.''
Dr. John N. Bahcall, an astrophysicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N. J., said: ''That paper was like Lyman himself. It was simple, very clear but very audacious.''
Although Hermann Oberth, a German-Romanian member of the V-2 rocket team assembled by Dr. Wernher von Braun, wrote in the 1920's of the possibility of space telescopes, it was Dr. Spitzer who expanded the concept with specific plans. His outline of the four main research goals for the telescope was especially prescient.
A telescope with a 200-inch mirror, he predicted, could measure the extent of the universe, determine the structure of galaxies, resolve the individual stars now hidden in the hazes of globular clusters and learn the nature of other planets. All four are high on the Hubble's agenda for discovery.
Only in one respect have events overtaken Dr. Spitzer's vision. He predicted the telescope might settle the issue of whether there was intelligent life on Mars. That possibility was ruled out by spacecraft visiting the planet. But the Hubble telescope, astronomers hasten to add, could help identify planetary systems around other stars and thus encourage the belief in extraterrestrial life far beyond the solar system.
 
Embodiment of a Struggle
As Dr. Spitzer recalls, the evolution of the Hubble telescope occurred in four stages of roughly one decade each. He worked mostly alone in the first decade, but would come to embody astronomy's struggle to initiate and defend the project through its long, troubled history.
No one paid much attention to the idea at first. Space flight was still futuristic. But Dr. Spitzer left Yale University in 1947 to become head of astrophysics at Princeton, where he had earned his doctorate. One condition of his employment, he said, was that he be allowed to pursue his vision of a space telescope.
Working with Dr. Martin Schwarzschild at Princeton, he sent telescopes to the fringes of space with sounding rockets and balloons in what was called Project Stratoscope. In 1957, a 12-inch telescope was lofted by balloon to 80,000 feet to make revealing studies of the Sun. The information gathered by the telescopes, recorded on spectrographs, was recovered when they were brought back to earth.
That was a few months before Sputnik was launched in October, inaugurating space flight and the second decade of Dr. Spitzer's crusade for the telescope.
''The Air Force came to me with an urgent request for ideas about how satellites could be used for astronomy,'' he said. ''They didn't have to twist my arm.''
 
Ultraviolet Scannings
Manufacturers of optical systems were hired to develop lightweight mirrors. Electronics companies were assigned the task of devising instruments. When NASA was created in 1958 and took over space astronomy, one of the first programs incorporating the new technologies inspired by Dr. Spitzer was the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory.
The two successful observatories, launched in the late 1960's and early 1970's, included 30-inch telescopes designed to observe the heavens in the ultraviolet wavelengths. These radiations are almost entirely blocked out by Earth's atmosphere. With the spaceborne ultraviolet telescopes, scientists were able for the first time to examine the interstellar dust and gases, remnants of exploded stars and the breeding ground for new stars. Dr. Spitzer and Dr. Schwarzschild had been the first, in the 1940's, to realize that stars had to come from somewhere and that it might be possible to observe their birth processes.
Dr. Spitzer's own research with the second observatory, called Copernicus, earned him the Crafoord Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. For astrophysicists, this is the nearest equivalent to the Nobel Prize.
 
Fear of the Expense
Although many astronomers were skeptical, Meanwhile, Dr. Spitzer had prevailed on the National Academy of Sciences to study and recommend proposals for a large space telescope. Many astronomers were skeptical. Even if a space telescope with a mirror more than 100 inches wide might be feasible, the critics y preferred a more conservative approach using a number of different smaller telescopes. They feared the big scope would be so expensive it would kill off more modest and more certain endeavors.
Dr. Spitzer was undeterred. In his history of the project, Dr. Smith quoted a colleague as saying, ''Lyman is a master of listening to everybody and doing in the end what he wants to do.''
Others attribute this dauntless persistence to the mountain-climbing side of the man. Dr. Spitzer has scaled many peaks in his life, and still tries to do some rock climbing once a week. About a decade ago, he was sighted at dawn working his way up the wall of a gothic tower at Princeton, and was arrested by campus police.
After a conference of astronomers at Woods Hole, Mass., in 1964, a board of the academy recommended that NASA proceed with the project, to be known initially as the Large Space Telescope. NASA first considered an instrument with a 120-inch mirror. During a preliminary design study, prompted by Congressional resistance, the size was scaled back to 94 inches to save money and simplify construction.
 
'Great Orbital Device'
By all accounts of his colleagues, Dr. Spitzer is a quiet, gentle and modest man. But he saw the idea through the science and NASA bureaucracies with aggressive vigor that the initials for the Large Space Telescope, L. S. T., were said by insiders to stand for the Lyman Spitzer Telescope.
Reminded of this, he merely chuckled and changed the subject. The adjective ''large'' did have to be dropped, he recalled, because the telescope was not as large as envisaged and because it was thought to frighten Congressional budget makers.
''A friend of mine,'' Dr. Spitzer remarked, ''suggested that we call it the Great Orbital Device, which would give it an interesting acronym.''
A more appropriate and evocative name was conceived in 1983: the Edwin P. Hubble Space Telescope, honoring an American astronomer who discovered 60 years ago that the universe was expanding. It was Hubble's findings that set the stage for modern cosmology's theory that the universe began some 10 billion to 20 billion years ago in an explosion, the Big Bang, that send matter and energy hurtling off in all directions.
 
Close to Foundering
If the success of Copernicus, demonstrating the benefits of a space telescope, and the design studies by NASA highlighted the third decade in Dr. Spitzer's chronology, the whole project came close to foundering. In 1975 and 1976, NASA's budgets were unusually tight, and Congress was reluctant to authorize any new spending for space. NASA was on the verge of canceling the project. Dr. Spitzer became a lobbyist.
''John Bahcall and I divided up the names of key Congressmen and decided who would see whom,'' he said. ''We spent a lot of time in Washington. We called on other astronomers, who got their friends to get their friends to put on the pressure. The response was overwhelming.''
In 1977, NASA received approval to start the project, at a cost estimated to run $435 million. Designs were completed, contracts were let to industry, and fabrication began. The Lockheed Missiles and Space Company would build the spacecraft, and the Perkin-Elmer Corporation would produce the mirror and major telescope components. Launching was planned for 1983.
The project's fourth decade proved even more turbulent. Technical problems with the telescope held up its completion. The Government's General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, uncovered major serious shortcomings in project management, which led to a general shakeup of operations at NASA and the contractors. Costs had escalated, with $1 billion now the conservative estimate.
 
Chance to Improve Controls
Even the new launching date in 1986 could not be met, but this time it was no fault of the Hubble team. When the space shuttle Challenger exploded in January 1986, all missions were grounded indefinitely. The new delay added another half a billion dollars to the expense, but it did give managers a chance to revise entirely what was discovered to be an inadequate computer control system, or software program, for operating the telescope in orbit.
In the last few years, Dr. Spitzer has taken a lesser role in the project, acting only as chairman of the board that oversees management of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, the center responsible for planning, executing and processing research with the Hubble telescope. He has been instrumental in selecting the project's new scientific leaders. But Dr. Riccardo Giaocconi, director of the institute, has become the dominant figure in the program.
Even in his heyday, Dr. Spitzer lost a few battles. He had led a campaign to have the telescope science institute situated at Princeton, but Johns Hopkins University won out. His team at Princeton sought the contract to develop the telescope's main camera system, but the California Institute of Technology won with what Dr. Spitzer concedes is a ''superior'' electronic device.
 
Telescope of His Dreams
But Dr. Spitzer has the telescope of his dreams. By November or December, if it is functioning properly, he will get to use the instrument for observations of the interstellar medium, the gases and dust between the stars. Other scientists will be looking for answers to the questions Dr. Spitzer raised in his 1946 paper.
''The most important discoveries,'' Dr. Bahcall said as the countdown for the launching was getting under way, ''will provide answers to questions that we do not yet know how to ask and will concern objects we have not yet imagined.''
The vision of Dr. Spitzer also incorporated this faith in finding the unexpected.
''It should be emphasized,'' he wrote in first proposing the space telescope, ''that the chief contribution of such a radically new and more powerful instrument would be, not to supplement our present ideas of the universe we live in, but rather to uncover new phenomena not yet imagined, and perhaps to modify profoundly our basic concepts of space and time.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lyman Spitzer (The New York Times/William E. Sauro)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES; SPACE SHUTTLE; HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HISTORY (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); 

PERSON: SPITZER, LYMAN (DR); WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE LYMAN SPITZER JR (97%); 



249 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 4, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Designing an SST: Noise, Sonic Booms and the Ozone Layer

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS the United States quietly pursues a new effort to develop a plane to carry passengers over long distances at twice the speed of sound or faster, it is focusing unusual attention on environmental problems that could ground the plane before it takes off.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration says preliminary studies it commissioned on a high-speed civil transport indicate that building such an aircraft is possible. But the effort will depend upon technological advances to make such a plane environmentally and economically acceptable, the agency says.
Parallel studies done in the past two years by Boeing Commercial Airplanes in Seattle and the Douglas Aircraft Company of Long Beach, Calif., a division of the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, indicate there will be a market after the year 2000 for a plane that can carry between 250 and 300 passengers at speeds between 1,350 and 2,000 miles per hour over distances of at least 6,000 miles.
The last attempt to build an American supersonic transport, or SST, ended in 1971 when Congress killed the program because of environmental concerns about excessive noise, possible damage to the ozone layer and whether such a plane could operate economically in an era of rising fuel prices. 
Attempting to learn from the past, the agency plans to spend $284 million over the next five years to find out whether a high-speed transport is feasible. The program will center initially on technology related to environmental issues.
The chief concerns are sonic boom, airport noise and engine emissions that could help reduce the atmosphere's protective ozone layer.
 
Confronting the Bottom Line
''We don't want the country to invest money in another round of supersonic transport development until these environmental questions are answered,'' said Howard L. Wesoky, NASA's program manager for high-speed transport research.
''We are looking at environmental issues ahead of hardware issues, which is unusual for a technology project,'' Mr. Wesoky said. ''The bottom line is that if we can't solve the environmental questions, the plane will not be built.''
To underscore these concerns, NASA has established an advisory committee on environmental problems that includes representatives of technical agencies concerned with aircraft, people from the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and representatives of environmental groups, such as Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, senior scientist for the Environmental Defense Fund.
''We're starting a process that may go on to become a model for Government, industry, environmental groups and others getting together before a technology is developed to see about doing it right,'' Dr. Oppenheimer said. ''This wasn't done for the first SST, nuclear power or some other technology that hasn't worked out.''
The preliminary studies by Boeing and Douglas are cautiously optimistic that technology can be found to overcome environmental difficulties.
 
Promising Engine Designs
Current aircraft technology, including the best material and engines available today, could not produce an acceptable aircraft, said Michael L. Henderson, Boeing's program manager of the project. But proposals for new aircraft materials, such as low-weight composites that can withstand the high temperatures of supersonic flight, and new engine designs that promise to be cleaner and quieter, are promising, he said.
The only supersonic airliner in service is the 100-seat Anglo-French Concorde; only 16 were built, and all but about a half dozen have been retired. The aircraft, which sees limited service between the United States and Europe, proved too small and short-range to be profitable and has been the source of many complaints about noise.
The resurgence of interest in supersonic airliners in the United States is in response to surveys that show passengers want a faster way to reach far-flung areas of the world, particularly Asia and the Pacific Rim, and that there would be intense international competition for a market for at least 650 such planes.
Aerospatiale, the French aircraft company, is studying a next-generation SST to replace the Concorde and the Japanese government has begun serious research. The Soviet Union has begun studies on a transport plane that could fly at five times the speed of sound, and is exploring the possibility of jointly developing a smaller, supersonic business jet with an American company.
To withstand the stresses of supersonic speed, the proposed planes would have to fly in the thinner atmosphere between 55,000 and 60,000 feet (the Concorde flies at just over 50,000 feet). The heat of the planes' engines would produce nitrogen oxides, which would drift up to higher levels and destroy ozone, a form of oxygen that screens the Earth from potentially damaging solar ultraviolet rays.
 
Effect on Ozone
Dr. Harold S. Johnson, a professor of chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley whose research on this reaction in the early 1970's helped scuttle the American SST, said a fleet of 500 supersonic airliners using existing engine technology would seriously deplete the ozone layer, which many researchers say is already being damaged by man-made chlorofluorocarbons.
According to a recent computer model study by Dr. Johnson with Douglas E. Kinnison and Donald J. Wuebbles of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, this fleet would reduce ozone by 15 to 20 percent, almost three times the damage predicted from chlorofluorocarbons.
Dr. Johnson said this worst-case prediction would probably not come true because engineers believe they can make jet engines that produce only one-tenth to one-hundredth as much nitrogen oxide as existing ones.
''I'm not the one to say this is impossible to do, but someone has to show that this is safe and practical,'' Dr. Johnson said, ''You can't start building planes on the promise that these problems may be solved.''
Flying faster than sound creates pressure waves in the air that cause a plane to leave a conical shock wave in its wake. The pressure waves that reach ground are heard as jolting sonic booms, which critics say disturb humans and animals, and produce vibrations that can damage property.
Mr. Graf of Douglas Aircraft said the sonic boom problem is important because his company's analysis indicates a supersonic airliner might not be economic if it were restricted to overwater flights.
Since sonic boom is affected by a plane's shape, size and mass, the aircraft makers say they are looking to new materials and manufacturing techniques to cut weight without sacrificing seating capacity. In addition, they are looking at different nose configurations and plane contours to reduce sonic boom.
 
'It Looks Very Good'
To deal with noise around airports, there is much research on cutting engine noise and improving the proposed plane's lift so that it rises quickly to leave the area sooner.
Jet engines powerful enough to push a big plane to supersonic speeds are inherently noisy, but engineers are looking at new types of engines that change their configuration so that they act and sound more like subsonic engines at takeoff and landing. Work is also progressing on new types of sound suppressors.
''I think it looks very good for producing a plane like this after the year 2000,'' said Mr. Wesoky of NASA.
Dr. Oppenheimer of the Environmental Defense Fund said he was not as optimistic that the problems could be solved and was particularly concerned about the effects a supersonic fleet could have on the atmosphere.
 
Concerns About Impact on Environment
In studying the feasiblility of an ultra-high-speed passenger plane, NASA researchers will focus on three environmental questions.
 
Sonic Boom
Can noise and vibrations associated with breaking the sound barrier be cut to acceptable levels?
 
Ozone Layer Damage
Will nitrogen oxide emissions drift up to the ozone layer and catalyze significant chemical destruction?
 
Airport Noise
Can engine configurations and sound suppressors be developed so noise of takeoff and landing is reduced?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%); DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO (70%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (70%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RESEARCH; AIR POLLUTION; OZONE; NOISE; SST (SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT) ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NOISE POLLUTION (87%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (76%); OZONE DEPLETION (71%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



250 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: The Human Side of Harlem Troupe's Crisis

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
Cheers and whistles filled City Center as the curtain fell after a recent performance by Dance Theater of Harlem for the city's public-school pupils. The children at City Center's Young People's Dance Series roared with laughter at the wry guide to the history and technique of ballet provided by Eddie J. Shellman, a principal dancer with the ballet company. They marveled at the height of the ballerinas' leg extensions and the men's leaps and at their daring one-handed lifts.
But the mood backstage was somber, for the 54-member company would not be dancing together again for six months except for a June 13 fund-raising show at Manhattan Center. Arthur Mitchell, who founded Dance Theater of Harlem with Karel Shook in 1969, announced the layoff in January, describing it as part of the strategy to meet a projected $1.7 million deficit in the company's $7.3 million budget because of unexpected cancellations of dates in California and Europe.
Faced with extended unemployment, what would the Harlem dancers do? Many said they were still numb from the shock of the announcement and from a three-month national tour that had just ended at the Kennedy Center in Washington. 
''As Mr. Mitchell said, we've all been in overdrive,'' said Valencia Yearwood, a corps dancer who joined the company this year. ''I don't think the reality set in until then, that this was really it.''
 
School Is Not Closing
In addition to laying off dancers, technical staff and most of the administrators, Mr. Mitchell had originally announced that the company's school would close for the summer. He said the moves were necessary to show the company's fiscal responsibility. Since then, the company has received grants of $50,000 each from Chase Manhattan Bank and the New York State Council on the Arts. With a $200,000 challenge grant from the Shubert Foundation and nearly $50,000 from individual donors, the money will help the school stay open this summer. But the dancers will be without work until October.
Major American dance companies commonly have a 40-week year, with 12 weeks of unpaid layoff built into the dancers' contracts. But longer layoffs are becoming more common as hard-pressed dance companies deal with financial setbacks. Dancers in those major companies cannot simply glide into the nearest temporary employment office and sign up for six months of performing, however, and New York State unemployment benefits bring them only $245 a month.
Several of the Harlem dancers said they would have to turn to their families for help. Others said they had gotten teaching jobs or would make guest appearances with other companies. Some said they might study or explore new fields. Most worried about how they would stay in shape with no performances and with the requisite daily dance class costing an average of $9.
 
Other Lands, Other Jobs
Virginia Johnson, one of the company's leading ballerinas, said she would continue to work on a bachelor's degree in history at New York University. ''I'm not sure I can afford it now, though,'' she said. ''I'll have to look into Hunter and City College and see what I can do.''
Cassandra Phifer will work on marketing and development for the company, choreograph dances in London and Seoul, South Korea, and coordinate a summer dance program for New Jersey children.
Lorraine Graves, a 12-year member who is now a ballet mistress and principal dancer, has been offered a three-month teaching job in Norfolk, Va., her hometown. With a bachelor's degree in dance, she is also thinking of beginning studies to become a certified undertaker so she can help out in her family's business. ''My brother said he thought I would be good,'' she said. ''And I've been away from my family for 12 years. They've been so good to me. I feel I could give something back. We know we're not going to be able to hop on our points forever. This has forced me to think, to make some decisions about my life in the next four to five years.''
Mr. Shellman, a principal dancer who joined the company in 1975, will teach at Iowa University for two weeks. And he and another company member, Endalyn Taylor, are to be married. ''I'm sending out resumes,'' he said. ''And I would like to speak about ballet more at colleges.'' #3 Directions at Once Lowell Smith, a principal dancer who joined the company 13 years ago, said, ''I'm taking courses in fashion illustration and design at the New School. I'm starting acting lessons at the HB Studios. The William Morris Agency is sending me out on auditions and stuff. All of it will either come together or fall apart.''
''People are contacting us,'' Ms. Graves said. ''We're all looking for jobs for each other. And my mother invited everyone to Norfolk.''
The layoff is harder for the younger, newer dancers. ''They're just getting started,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I think for them there was hysteria and panic and still is. Where are they going to get a job?''
Ms. Phifer worries, too. ''Most of them are not experienced enough to teach,'' she said.
Ms. Graves said, ''And I think most of the kids want to save themselves for Dance Theater of Harlem's return.''
Derick Reid, a corps dancer, joined the company only last May. ''I worked pretty hard to get to this point,'' he said. ''It was a shock when this happened.'' But Mr. Reid may be one of the lucky ones, for there may be a job for him in the 10th-anniversary celebration of Harbor Place in Baltimore. ''It's not dance, and I may be doing anything from public relations to stuffing envelopes,'' he said. ''I do want to stay in New York. I've set up my home here now. But you have to go where you can make a living.''
 
The Lost Momentum
Most of the dancers talked as much of the pain of separation from the company as of their job plans and economic worries. Dance Theater of Harlem, which is unusually close-knit, is a company with a mission. Today one of the nation's leading classical ballet companies. At the start, Mr. Mitchell, a dancer who became one of New York City Ballet's most popular performers, set out to prove that blacks can dance ballet.
Many of the performers said the company was dancing better than ever. ''Mr. Mitchell said, and I agree, that the company is so cohesive now and dancing so well on the technical and artistic levels,'' Frances Harper, a corps dancer, said. ''It's such a weird time for this to happen. That's what's so sad.'' It will be hard, the dancers say, to get the momentum back quickly.
 
The Clan Gathers
They are still haunted by the memory of the night Mr. Mitchell drew them together after a performance on tour and announced the cutbacks in a motel conference room in Pasadena, Calif. ''He was really drained,'' Mr. Shellman said. ''It was very difficult for him to tell us. He's the rock.''
''And he did everything he could for the rock not to crumble,'' Ms. Graves added. ''He was very quiet. But we all knew.'' There had been telltale signs that the company might have to curtail activities. But the announcement was still devastating. ''Mr. M. had always pulled something out of the hat,'' Mr. Smith said.
There was a long silence after the announcement. Then a group of dancers formed a circle around Mr. Mitchell, much as they do to inspire each other before performances. ''Just to support him and let each other know that we cared about each other,'' Mr. Smith said. ''He looked at that point like a dad who couldn't feed his kids.''
Will Dance Theater of Harlem return? ''No one is worried about the company folding,'' Ms. Yearwood said. ''There is just a feeling of sadness that we have to leave each other and D.T.H. for six months. We really love what we do, and where we do it.''
Mr. Smith said: ''The majority of the kids consider this their home. We're just waiting for Dad to finish building on some extra rooms before we come back.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the financial difficulties of the Dance Theater of Harlem misstated New York State's unemployment benefits.
They are $245 a week, not a month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lorraine Graves and Eddie J. Shellman, principals in the Dance Theater of Harlem ballet company, right, and performing ''Four Temperaments,'' above, are among the company's dancers facing unemployment. (The New York Times/Jim Wilson; Martha Swope)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY CENTRE RESTAURANTS PLC (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM

SUBJECT: DANCING; LAYOFFS (LABOR) DANCE (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); BALLET (91%); DANCERS (91%); THEATER (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER ARTHUR ADAM MITCHELL (70%); 



251 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
A Triple-A Hero: Ambitious, Arrogant and Awful

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Titmuss Regained
By John Mortimer
281 pages. Viking. $19.95.
In John Mortimer's entertaining new novel, ''Titmuss Regained,'' England's green and pleasant land is threatened not by the building of industrialism's dark satanic mills but by the erection of 1980's style suburban housing projects and shopping malls.
Developers, it seems, have discovered the lovely Rapstone Valley, and their plans to create a cute new community named Fallowfield Country Town (complete with mock-Georgian shopping centers, huge parking lots and condominiums for yuppie commuters from London) immediately sets off a confrontation between liberals and conservatives, environmentalists and entrepreneurs. It's a confrontation that quickly obsesses all the Rapstone Valley residents, a confrontation that provides Mr. Mortimer with lots of opportunities to look at England's uneasy accommodation with recent social changes: the emergence of a new status-hungry middle class; the growing acceptance of American ideas and values; the spread of suburban development to once-bucolic areas. 
As his earlier novel ''Paradise Postponed'' (which first introduced readers to Rapstone Valley and its residents) demonstrated, Mr. Mortimer isn't interested in studying these matters in a ponderous, academic way. Rather he is content to dispense his sociological observations in passing while giving the reader a charming comedy of manners, full of eccentric characters, absurd liaisons and wacky subplots - the same sort of thing that made his ''Rumpole of the Bailey'' novels so deliciously entertaining.
Though the results are frequently as funny as those produced by Evelyn Waugh, there's none of Waugh's viciousness or malice. It's obvious that Mr. Mortimer sides with the lovers of a pastoral past, but he remains remarkably evenhanded in his satire, sending up the sentimental excesses of the ''green welly brigade'' even as he reserves a modicum of sympathy for his awful hero, the Right Honourable Leslie Titmuss, Secretary of State for Housing, Ecological Affairs and Planning (HEAP).
Titmuss, as readers of ''Paradise Postponed'' will doubtless remember, is a scheming, social-climbing Member of Parliament who has risen to his current position of prominence from an impoverished childhood in the Rapstone Valley. His politics are impeccably right-wing, his wealth vast, his power seemingly secure. When we first meet him in ''Titmuss Regained,'' he has achieved ''all but two of his ambitions.''
''He had reached high office in a government which had ruled the country for so long that most young people could not remember another. And he had survived some temporary embarrassments, such as the death of his wife in the anti-nuclear protest at Worsfield Heath, to become a national figure. He was respected, enjoyed, if not liked, as a sardonic wit, a card, a man who gave honest utterance to the feelings of all ordinary citizens and who didn't give a damn for what the liberal intellectuals thought of him.''
Titmuss's two remaining ambitions are to become Prime Minister and to make a brilliant second marriage -''he wanted a wife who would make him the envy of his few friends and, more satisfactorily, his many enemies.'' The first, even the arrogant Titmuss concedes, is probably beyond him. The second he sets about accomplishing with somber dispatch. The object of Titmuss's marital campaign is one Jenny Sidonia, the beautiful widow of a highly respected Oxford don.
Central to Titmuss's efforts to woo Jenny is Rapstone Manor, an impressive country house that looks out upon acres of gardens and woodlands. Titmuss has already gone to rather extraordinary lengths to acquire this mansion, and it now appears that he will have to go even further to hang on to it. If the Fallowfield developers have their way, the mansion will soon be surrounded by expressways and malls. Titmuss has the power to block the developers, but it's not so easy for him simply to veto their proposal. After all, as a gung-ho conservative who has made his reputation praising the virtues of the free-market economy and denouncing rich socialists with converted farmhouses, he can't just reverse himself and take the side of the conservationists. To do so would be to open himself to charges of hypocrisy and conflict of interest.
To prevent the Fallowfield development and hold on to his reputation for fairness, Titmuss comes up with a complicated plan involving blackmail, political gamesmanship and dealings with some unlikely allies. Those allies include Fred Simcox, a left-wing doctor who has developed a crush of his own on Jenny; Dot Curdle, a loud-mouthed rabbit farmer whose livelihood is threatened by the development plan, and Hector Bolitho Jones, the warden of the Rapstone Nature Area and an ardent environmentalist pledged to fighting anything that might endanger ''rain forests, the black rhino, badgers, otters.''
Many of the subsequent developments in ''Titmuss Regained'' seem contrived, silly, even downright preposterous. Subplots bloom and wither; digressions proliferate to no apparent purpose; loose ends go untied. Oddly enough, none of these problems really seem to matter. In the course of relating his meandering story, Mr. Mortimer creates so many amusing characters, dispenses so many funny apercus that the reader quickly forgets the novel's slap-dash plot and remembers only its charms.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Mortimer (Rosemary Herbert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TITMUSS REGAINED (BOOK)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: FALLOWFIELD COUNTRY TOWN (59%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); SUBURBS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CHILD POVERTY (60%); 

PERSON: KAKUTANI, MICHIKO; MORTIMER, JOHN JOHN CLIFFORD MORTIMER (96%); 



252 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
In asbestos-related suits against Owens-Illinois, insurance companies are liable for $960 million in damage and injury claims, a New Jersey superior court has ruled. [Page D1.]
 
MCI Communications has agreed to buy Telecom USA in a deal worth $1.25 billion. The deal is the latest and largest in a series of acquisitions by MCI. [D1.] 
 
Sir James Goldsmith was dealt a setback in his $21 billion bid to acquire B.A.T. Industries when California insurance regulators by denying the proposed sale of Farmers Group. [D1.]
 
The Defense Department has made what is essentially a venture capital investment in a young Silicon Valley company. [D5.]
 
A new treatment can significantly reduce the death rate of patients who go into shock from bacterial infections, a report will show. The results could be a boon for Centocor, the biotechnology company that has applied for permission to market the drug. [D1.]
 
Executive bonuses at Ford and G.M. declined for 1989, proxy statements show, but at markedly different levels. [D2.]
 
Preferred shareholders of Eastern Airlines submitted a reorganization plan aimed at averting a liquidation. [D4.]
 
Salomon has bought exclusive rights to important information on thousands of ''junk bonds'' underwritten by Drexel. [D4.]
 
Huffington will be acquired by the national oil and gas company of Taiwan. [D4.]
 
Talks broke off between rival computer-industry groups trying to set software standards. [D5.]
 
H. J. Heinz will replace its plastic ketchup bottle with another type of plastic that it says is much more likely to be recycled. [D5.]
 
I.B.M. is reported to be a major supporter of a company that is working on a portable computer that recognizes handwriting. [D5.]
 
Time Warner will arrange a $650 million bank loan that Pathe Communications will use to buy MGM/UA. [D17.]
 
A new Hispanic television network is threatening to steal viewers and advertising from Univision and Telemundo. [D17.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Charles H. Keating Jr. testified that the savings and loan crisis and the collapse of Lincoln Savings resulted from a regulatory system that failed to anticipate the effects of deregulation. [D9.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The U.S., Japan and the European Community reached broad agreement on the creation of a regional development bank to aid the emerging market economies of Eastern Europe. [D2.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stock prices rose slightly and the Dow ended at 2,722.07, up 4.95. Trading activity slowed to its second-lowest level of the year. [D6.]
 
Treasury securities prices dipped in lethargic trading as credit market participants chose to ignore potentially favorable developments in other markets. [D13.]
 
The dollar ended modestly lower against all leading currencies except the Japanese yen and British pound, after a wave of selling by central banks overseas to help prop up the yen. [D14.]
 
Crude oil prices plunged, largely on a report that OPEC's production had soared to its highest level since 1981. [D14.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
As Eastern Airlines tries to trim health-care benefits, its moves are being watched closely by benefits executives, labor union officials and bankruptcy lawyers. Business and Health. [D2.]
 
The London Stock Exchange has undertaken its most sweeping changes since the ''Big Bang.'' Market Place. [D6.]
 
What happens when a powerful boss retires? When the time comes, Backer Spielvogel Bates says it can assure a smooth management transition. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (94%); VZ (NYSE) (94%); OI (NYSE) (58%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (57%); BTI (JSE) (57%); BATS (LSE) (57%); HNZ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (64%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (54%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (54%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); FIRESTONE COMMUNICATIONS INC (64%); OWENS-ILLINOIS INC (58%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (57%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (55%); H J HEINZ CO (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ASBESTOS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); BRITISH POUND (60%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (53%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (51%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 



253 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Weak Effort to Aid Yen;
The Group of Seven Shows Less Urgency When the Dollar Is Not Directly Involved

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The United States and its allies in the Group of Seven industrial nations are making only a modest defense of the weakened Japanese yen, and this means the effort may have little impact.
The problem of the yen was of far less concern to the Group of Seven than a similar problem with the dollar would be, so there was no consensus for bolder action. The move that would have a real impact is a change in interest rates, but the Group of Seven is unlikely to do that. Consequently, there was little the officials could have done other than issue a communique and back it up with some modest dollar-selling around the world yesterday. 
All these factors make this venture, announced in Paris on Saturday, riskier than usual for the Group of Seven. But taking no action at all could have been even worse, both for the yen and the credibility of the group. Still, no matter what the Group of Seven does, the main responsibility for supporting the yen remains with Japan.
Dollar-selling yesterday by the Group of Seven, which consists of the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada, had little impact by the time trading ended in New York. The yen had strengthened in Tokyo to 155.70 to the dollar, partly because the newspapers in Japan took an optimistic view of the Paris developments, with headlines promising ''concerted'' intervention.
But in late trading in New York the yen had slipped to 158.34 yen to the dollar, leaving it weaker than Friday's 157.70. At midday today in Tokyo, the yen was trading slightly above 158 to the dollar.
What makes this move by the Group of Seven different and more difficult than in the past is that the dollar, for the first time since 1985, is not the central problem.
Because the problem is with the yen, some countries in the group, especially the United States and West Germany, are not being harmed enough to worry or to take action to support the yen. The West Germans would prefer that their currency get even stronger to help them ease the inflationary pressures arising from the economic union of the two Germanys. As for the United States, a weaker dollar would add to its inflationary pressures.
Concerns about the weak yen have also been reduced by the fact that the Tokyo stock market, off sharply this year in part because of the weak yen, has yet to pull the rest of the world's markets down with it. In fact the recent activity on the Tokyo exchange might calm people even more: the Nikkei index jumped 1,029 points on Friday, and yesterday it added another 1,119. At the end of today's morning session in Tokyo, the Nikkei had given back some of those gains, showing a loss of 349.07 points, to 30,048.86.
All in all, there is no expectation that the central bank intervention will be followed by interest rate cuts in West Germany and the United States to shore up the yen. Such rate cuts would aid the yen by making the dollar and the mark less attractive to investors.
 
Signs of Reluctance
''Its clear to me that no other Group of Seven member is willing to alter its policy to help support the yen,'' said John Lipsky, director of international bond trading at Salomon Brothers in London. But he said the meeting's outcome would have been worse had the finance ministers and central bank presidents not expressed their concern about the weak yen and not followed that communique with market intervention.
''To have remained silent on the yen would have been a virtual invitation for a speculative attack on the yen,'' he said, ''and would have been interpreted as a failure of the Group of Seven.''
Stephen King, an international economist at James Capel Inc. in London, said: ''The stakes or benefits of cooperation are a little lower than they were. I'm afraid it's still a case of waiting for the Bank of Japan to raise the discount rate. There is a bit of sympathy from the Group of Seven, but nothing more.''
 
Action at Previous Meeting
In September, the last time the group met and made a major move in the foreign exchange market, the situation was different. The issue then was the dollar's strength against the yen, the mark and other major currencies. That situation did produce a response, because everybody needed help.
A communique issued in Washington said the dollar was too high. After that, there was repeated dollar-selling by the Bank of Japan, the Federal Reserve and European central banks. In addition, the monetary authorities in West Germany and Japan raised their key interest rates in October. And the dollar fell. If the latest Group of Seven effort manages to stall, even temporarily, the decline of the yen - and the drop in the Japanese bond and stock markets - there might be enough time for the Japanese Government and the Bank of Japan to bury their disputes and act together to calm their markets, most likely by raising interest rates again. If that happens, then the Group of Seven action, in hindsight, will look effective.
But if the yen continues to decline and the world's other stock markets begin to feel the impact of a further decline in Tokyo, then the Group of Seven may have to consider more forceful action when it meets again in May in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (76%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



254 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: MCI to Acquire Telecom USA

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The MCI Communications Corporation, the nation's second-largest provider of long-distance telephone services, announced a $1.25 billion agreement yesterday to buy Telecom USA Inc., the No. 4 company.
The deal is the latest and largest in a series of acquisitions by MCI, which has reported sharply higher profits in each of the last three years and is seeking to expand its 12 percent share of the nation's $52 billion long-distance market.
Bert C. Roberts Jr., president and chief operating officer of MCI, said yesterday that the $42-a-share price was not excessive and reflected estimates by MCI and its financial adviser, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, of the potential for cutting costs and raising revenues. The acquisition will dilute MCI's earnings for a year but add to profits after that, he said. 
 
Fiber-Optic Links
Telecom, based in Atlanta, has 3,000 miles of high-quality fiber-optic cable in the Midwest and Southeast, half of it linking communities where MCI has no such cables, Mr. Roberts said. Telecom caters mostly to small and medium-sized businesses, while MCI, based in Washington, has focused on residential and large corporate customers.
The transaction represents further consolidation in the dwindling ranks of regional long-distance companies.
Telesphere Communications Inc. announced two weeks ago that it would pay $75 million for National Telephone Services Inc., creating the nation's sixth-largest long-distance company. Of the 10 biggest long-distance providers, five mostly regional companies, including Telecom itself, are products of mergers since mid-1987.
Economists and Wall Street analysts say it is difficult to determine the effect of such mergers on competition and prices. The combined companies are better able to compete with the giant American Telephone and Telegraph Company, but the mergers reduce the number of competitors and make it harder for large corporations to break into the industry by buying a small company and investing heavily in it.
Telecom's shares posted the largest increase in percentage terms of any stock on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, soaring $16.25, to close at $38.125, a gain of 74.3 percent. Telecom also led a rally in long-distance telephone stocks.
But MCI fell $1.125 a share, to $35.75, in over-the-counter trading, amid concerns that its earnings would be diluted. ''They're paying a pretty rich price compared to the current stock price,'' said Jack B. Grubman, a telecommunications analyst at Paine Webber Inc.
The boards of both MCI and Telecom have approved the agreement, which is subject to approval by Telecom's shareholders, the Federal Communications Commission, the Justice Department and several state regulatory agencies.
In part, the acquisition is a response to recent steps by the F.C.C. to loosen regulations on A.T.& T., said Mr. Roberts, who added that the transaction creates ''a single, stronger competitor.''
But the Competitive Telecommunications Association, a Washington trade group that represents Telecom and other regional companies, said the deal would reduce competition. ''It tends to support our concern that consolidation of the industry could lead to oligopoly,'' said James M. Smith, the group's president.
Telecom, which has 5,000 employees, had revenues last year of $713 million. MCI, with 19,500 employees, had 1989 revenues of $6.5 billion.
 
Other Deals Are Likely
The takeover agreement announced yesterday may not be the last among the regional providers, analysts and industry executives said. Although MCI is not in discussions with any other regional telephone company, Mr. Roberts said, it will be looking for further strategic acquisitions in the next five or six years.
MCI was begun in 1963 as Microwave Communications Inc. In the last seven years, it has bought two international telephone businesses and a satellite-based domestic system.
Also in the market for long-distance companies is Francesco Galesi, a New York-based builder of shopping centers who has acquired half of Telesphere and a quarter of Advanced Telecommunications, the No. 7 long-distance company.
''I do think there's going to be more consolidation in the industry,'' Mr. Galesi said in a telephone interview yesterday from his horse farm in Jamaica. ''I hope to be a person who will be instrumental in doing that.''
The premium price for Telecom reflects the industry's large economies of scale. Costs reflect mostly the initial installation of equipment and not the volume of calls.
Regional long-distance companies are having trouble winning and retaining large business clients, which increasingly seek to buy all telecommunications services at discount rates from one or two large companies, said Howard M. Anderson, the president of the Yankee Group, a consulting firm in Boston.
Both Mr. Roberts and Herb Linnen, an A.T.& T spokesman, said the deal would intensify competition.
But Eli Noam, an economist at the Columbia Business School and a member of the New York Public Service Commission, said the effect on competition was unclear. While strengthening MCI would provide more competition to A.T.& T., the acquisition may also indicate that medium-sized companies are being bought up before they can grow into national competitors, he said.

GRAPHIC: graph: long-distance telephone market share (Source: Competitive Telecommunications Assoc.) (pg. D1); photo: Bert C. Roberts Jr., president and chief operating officer of the MCI Communications Corporation. (The New York Times/Jose R. Lopez) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (98%); VZ (NYSE) (98%); T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (98%); TELEPHONE SERVICES INC (66%); AT&T INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); COMPETITIVE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELECOM USA INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (94%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); FIBER OPTICS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); APPROVALS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



255 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 4.95 in 2d-Slowest Day of Year

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks rose slightly yesterday, and trading slowed to its second-lowest level of the year.
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 4.95 points, to 2,722.07, and volume fell to 114.97 million shares,from 137.49 million last Friday. On March 12, volume was 114.79 million shares, the lowest point of 1990. Declining stocks outnumbered advances,839 to 652. 
''Most portfolio managers no longer appear to expect a market decline because the market is very quiet,'' said David B. Bostian Jr., the chief investment strategist for Jesup & Lamont. ''But I think of it as the eye of the storm.''
 
'Could Be Vulnerable'
''With the onset of earnings reports soon,'' he said, ''the market could be vulnerable.'' He said he looked for earnings to be weaker than generally expected.
Economic problems in New England, banking problems in general and big merger deals continued to dominate the market. Banks, drugs, food, beverages and telephone stocks gained; gold weakened and computers were mixed.
Ames Department Stores, which has had difficulty turning around its Zayre stores, headed the New York Stock Exchange's most-active list, falling 1/4, to 3 1/4, on 4.14 million shares. Institutions accounted for most of the selling. Ames said last week that sales in March fell 12 percent.
Telecom rose 16 1/4, to 41 7/8, the second-most-active Big Board stock, on 3.56 million shares. It announced with MCI that the telecommunications companies had agreed to merge in a deal in which MCI paid $42 a share for Telecom. MCI headed the over-the-counter active list, falling 1 1/8, to 35 3/4, on 3.4 million shares.
Among other telecommunications stocks, United Telecom rose 1 3/8, to 39 3/4, and Rochester Telephone rose 1 1/8, to 36 7/8.
 
Banks Show Strength
Among the bank stocks, Citicorp rose 3/4, to 23 5/8; BankAmerica rose 7/8, to 26 3/8, and Norwest of Minneapolis fell 1/4, to 18 3/8, all in heavy trading. the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, rose 1 3/8, to 33 3/8, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, rose 1 3/8, to 66 5/8.
After weakness last week, Charles W. Peabody, a banking analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company, recommended BankAmerica, Chase Manhattan, Manufacturers Hanover, Mellon, Norwest, J. P. Morgan, Suntrust and First City of Texas.
Chase rose 1/2, to 28 1/2; Manufacturers rose 5/8, to 31 5/8; Mellon rose 7/8, to 25; Morgan rose 1 1/8, to 35 3/4; Suntrust rose 3/8, to 21 1/2, and First City rose 1/2, to 32 1/2, all in brisk trading.
Near the start of trading, the market seemed to respond for a time to the stronger tone of Japanese stocks. But by 11 A.M., after advancing by about 12 points, the Dow industrials drifted for the rest of the session.
Except for Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola, none of the stocks among the Dow Jones industrials rose by as much as a point. P.& G. rose 1 1/8, to 69 3/4, on 391,000 shares. Coca-Cola rose 1 3/8, to 79 1/4, on 475,000 shares. I.B.M., one of the more closely watched industrials, fell 3/8, to 105 1/2.
Pepsico, which is not a part of the Dow industrials, rose 1 1/2, to 66 1/2, on 775,000 shares, after it announced a barter deal to swap more than $3 billion of the soft drink for Soviet ships and vodka.
The Dow Jones transportation index fell 3.03 points, to 1,171.05, with UAL continuing to account for most of the change in either direction. UAL, the parent of United Airlines, fell 2 1/2, to 161, in strong trading as uncertainties persisted over its unions' plans to buy the carrier.
 
Food Shares Gain
Food shares were strong, with Kellogg up 1 1/2, to 63 5/8; CPC International up 1 1/8, to 70 7/8; Hershey up 1, to 33 5/8, and Quaker Oats up 1 1/4, to 50 3/4.
Among individual stocks, the Tribune Company rose 1 7/8, to 43 1/2, after it announced a 10-year cooperative production deal for six Tribune television stations, including WPIX in New York, KTLA in Los Angeles and WGN in Chicago, to join the CNN.
In another sign of nervousness over earnings, Network Equipment, a maker of communications products, fell 5 3/4, to 15 1/8, in heavy trading. After saying last week that it expected a disappointing fourth quarter, it said yesterday that it expected revenues for the fourth quarter ended March 31 to total about $44 million.
Other market indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index rose 1.29, to 341.37; the Amex market-value index fell 1.33, to 359.68, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 0.72, to 430.18.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (56%); UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (61%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL STOCK EXCHANGE (LONDON)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); MERGERS (79%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN



256 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Cost Rise Is Seen

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 9

 BODY:
The Bush Administration conceded today that the bailout of the savings and loan industry would cost taxpayers more than previously estimated.
''There's no question that the cost is increasing, and we'll have to take that into account in deciding future actions,'' the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said. 
He responded to a report on Friday by the General Accounting Office, the investigatory arm of Congress, that the 10-year cost of the program would be $243 billion instead of the $166 billion estimated by the Administration. The General Accounting Office said the 30-year cost of the program would be $325 billion to $500 billion, depending on the country's economic performance.
''We don't have an analysis either to endorse or reject the G.A.O. numbers, except to say there clearly are going to be additional costs,'' Mr. Fitzwater said.
Mr. Fitzwater rejected as ''total nonsense'' the contention by Charles A. Bowsher, the Comptroller General and head of the General Accounting Office, that the Administration had deliberately understated the cost of the bailout.
Mr. Bowsher, interviewed on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, said Sunday that the Bush Administration had set an artifically low cost on the bailout to let the Government appear to meet deficit-reduction targets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MAX MARLIN 'MARLIN' FITZWATER (72%); 



257 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Report on OPEC Production Sends Oil Prices Skidding

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Crude oil prices plunged yesterday, largely on a report that OPEC's production had soared to its highest level since 1981. Global demand for oil has also been declining because of the uncommonly mild winter in the Northern Hemisphere as well as softening in the economies of industrial countries.
At the close of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the largest energy market, the spot contract for West Texas intermediate-grade crude oil, for delivery in May, plunged 71 cents a barrel, to $18.44. That was the lowest level for a spot, or near-term, contract since last August. 
The exchange's spot contract for unleaded gasoline dropped 1.22 cents a gallon, to 60.89 cents, and heating oil for delivery in May declined 0.64 cent a gallon, to 53.07 cents. But the exchange's lively new natural gas contract, which began trading last Tuesday, rose 0.012 cent, to $1.637 per 10 million British thermal units.
''The industry knew that some OPEC members were exceeding their output quotas,'' said Peter C. Beutel, energy specialist at Elders Futures Inc., ''but when the Middle East Economic Survey reported that the group as a whole was pumping over 24 million barrels a day, which puts it at a nine-year high, the news hit the market hard.''
While the total reported output of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was about a million barrels above the levels of a year ago, demand has fallen. Mr. Beutel noted that domestic demand for heating oil in the first quarter of 1990 dropped 8.5 percent, largely because the winter was unusually warm.
Domestic consumption of unleaded gasoline fell 1.2 percent in the first quarter. For all of 1989, gasoline use fell four-tenths of a percent, the first decline since 1982, a recession year.
Bradford H. Hughes, energy analyst at Cargill Investor Services, noted that the rising flow of OPEC oil was taxing storage capacity in the United States and Europe ''and undoubtedly depressing prices.''
The mild winter also encouraged refiners to switch production to gasoline from heating oil earlier than they otherwise would have done. This has resulted in an oversupply of gasoline and has weakened prices.
Mr. Hughes noted more pessimistic news: the postponement of a planned strike by Soviet oilfield workers in Siberia. The Soviet Union is the world's largest oil producer, and its exports account for an estimated 80 percent of its foreign earnings.
Mercantile Exchange traders also reacted negatively to some technical news from London. They often use London energy contracts to hedge their domestic positions, but the price of London's April heating oil contract, which expires today, is an usually large $10 a ton above the contract for May delivery. Should the expiration in London of the April contract cause the price for May delivery to plunge, it could unravel many hedges on the New York exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CARGILL INVESTOR SERVICES INC (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); SPOT MARKET (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

PERSON: PETER C BEUTEL (61%); BRADFORD H HUGHES (61%); 



258 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Chip Index Shows Gains

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 9

 BODY:
The semiconductor industry's leading indicator showed continued strength in March, as United States semiconductor orders and shipments increased, a trade group reported today.
The Semiconductor Industry Association, based in Cupertino, Calif., reported a book-to-bill ratio of 1.09 for the three-month period ended in March, up from 1.05 in February and a revised figure of 1.06 in January. 
The book-to-bill compares orders with shipments and is considered a leading indicator of the industry's performance. A ratio of 1.09 indicates that for every $100 worth of product shipped, $109 was ordered, a sign of increasing demand.
Orders for the three-month period ended in March were up 5.4 percent, at $1.27 billion, from $1.20 billion for the period ended in February and slightly higher than the figure posted a year ago, which was $1.26 billion.
Three-month average shipments for March totaled $1.16 billion, up from February's $1.14 billion. At $1.30 billion, United States market shipments for March were 15.2 percent higher than February's $1.13 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS ELECTRONICS (93%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); 



259 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Japan Keeps Up the Big Spending To Maintain Its Industrial Might

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KIMITSU, Japan

 BODY:
At a time when some Americans are worrying about how much Japan is investing to buy real estate and companies from New York to Honolulu, the bigger concern for the United States may be how much Japan is continuing to invest on its industrial prowess at home.
Even after some turbulent months for the Japanese economy, the nation is expected to far outpace the United States this year in spending for new plants, equipment, research and development. This will be the fourth year in a row such a gap has existed.
While some of the investment is going into consumer products long associated with Japan, like advanced televisions, video cameras and computer chips, much of it is headed into industries that only a few years ago looked dead, like steel and shipbuilding.
 
'Laboratory for the World'
''It's a bit scary,'' said Kenneth S. Courtis, the senior economist of Deutsche Bank's capital markets operation in Tokyo. ''The United States usually spends to add capacity; Japan's investments are driven by a strategy to fundamentally reposition industry. A third of it is going into productivity; a third of it is going into innovation, new products. What we are seeing is Japan becoming the new-product laboratory for the world.'' 
The Japanese economy is about 60 percent the size of the American economy. Yet Mr. Courtis estimated that Japan last year invested more than $750 billion, or about 24 percent of its gross national product, in this kind of spending, known as capital investment. The United States spent more than $500 billion, or about 10 percent of G.N.P.
The rate of increase in that spending will probably slow somewhat this year in Japan because of the stock market plunge in Tokyo and growing fears that Japan's economic boom may be weakening. But interviews with executives of leading Japanese companies suggest that they still plan to spend heavily.
The evidence of investment even in old-line industries is dramatic in places like Japan's largest steel plant, situated in this town of 90,000 people across the bay from Tokyo. A few years ago the belching smokestacks were a symbol of the kind of inefficient heavy industry that the Government was committed to paring down in the face of heavy competition from South Korea.
But today, after hundreds of millions of dollars of investment and a program to retire or retrain excess workers, the Nippon Steel Corporation's giant Kimitsu Works has caught up with its lower-cost Korean competition, and 13,000 workers keep Kimitsu running at close to capacity. The company is planning to invest $1.1 billion this year to automate Kimitsu and several other plants yet again, an expenditure few of its American rivals could even think of making.
''Cutting back investment in new products and new technology is not a good way to economize,'' said Koichi Danno, the director of corporate planning for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, which has helped lead the revival in Japan's machinery and shipbuilding businesses. ''Our attitude is wait and see. We don't want to cut back.''
Other companies say they have built such huge reserves of cash that they can pay for expansion without resorting to the chaotic markets.
 
Maintaining Its Lead
Whether that view is sustained will probably be the true test of the strength of the Japanese economy in coming months. While initial surveys indicate that the growth rate in such investments in Japan will decline, the growth will still be far ahead of that in the United States.
Until 1987 the United States exceeded Japan in capital investment. But after a September 1985 international agreement to weaken the dollar, thus strengthening the yen and making Japanese goods more expensive abroad, Japanese companies mounted a large and expensive effort to automate factories and cut their work forces.
The idea was to remain competitive even if the yen approached 100 to the dollar. But no one expected that the high level of spending would persist or that the yen would weaken as it has in recent months, to nearly 160 to the dollar. International monetary officials met last weekend and expressed concern about the weak yen, but Japanese industry is quietly delighted with the situation because exporting is becoming far more profitable than anyone had predicted.
 
The Benefits of Low Rates
The large growth in capital spending in Japan cost less than it would have in the United States because of lower interest rates in Japan and a surging Tokyo stock market that made it easier to raise money. Now as interest rates have risen and Japan's stock market declines, some smaller companies have begun to pull back on capital investments.
But most large companies that have built huge cash reserves are not yet making significant cuts, although there are signs of nervousness. The Sony Corporation, for example, is said to be scaling back its capital spending plan for this year, though its investments would still rise modestly from last year's high levels.
Japan's capital investments are most remarkable in industries that lack the high-tech gloss of consumer electronics, computers and biotechnology. In Nagasaki, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries is finishing a new luxury cruise ship, one of several under construction in the country. And in machinery and other heavy equipment, once slow-growing industries, Japan's expansion overseas has created record demand for giant lathes, metal-pressing machines and other equipment used to produce everything from picture tubes to auto parts in Japanese-owned factories in Asia and the United States.
 
Big Demand for Robots
Japan's leading robot maker, Fanuc Ltd., can barely meet demand for its machines, which are crucial to efforts to automate manufacturing operations and make up for a huge labor shortage in this country.
For some older industries, new technologies have brought new vigor. Makers of railroad cars recently put on display in the middle of Tokyo Station a prototype of Japan's first linear motor car, a high-speed alternative to the ''bullet trains.'' The linear cars are elevated above the track and are propelled by magnetic force. The display was a reminder that 25 years after beginning bullet train service, Japan is ready to spend heavily to build faster, quieter trains.
In part the revival of Japan's heavy industries is being pushed by an unlikely ally, the United States. American trade negotiators have been pressing Japan to speed up its intensive program of public works projects, rebuilding airports and highways and erecting new government buildings.
The American hope is that some of the work will be awarded to construction companies, architects and other specialists from the United States. But the biggest beneficiaries are Japanese companies.
 
Some Favored Stocks
Already, some investors are accumulating Japanese ''S.I.I. stocks,'' named for the ''structural impediments initiative'' round of talks aimed at changing the way the American and Japanese economies interact. Among the hottest investment choices are Japanese makers of sewer pipes and concrete.
What worries some Americans here is not the investment in public works but the sustained level of investment in private industry. The Japanese Government has occasionally frowned upon big increases in capital spending because they threaten to increase Japan's trade surplus, but such expressions of displeasure have had little effect.
Recently, for example, the Government lost a telling face-off against the Toyota Motor Company, Japan's biggest auto maker. Toyota was eager to expand its manufacturing capacity because the car market in Japan continues to boom. The Government is concerned that such expansions ''could be a disaster,'' a senior official of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said recently. The ministry's fear is that the domestic Japanese car market could cool, tempting manufacturers to ship more cars abroad, which would add immensely to the trade imbalances. Nevertheless, Toyota said its capital investment would rise 25 percent.
 
Plans for Steelmakers
In the case of the steel industry, the recovery did not happen exactly the way the Government planned.
The goal was to reduce Japan's steel capacity, while pushing companies into new businesses that would provide jobs for the displaced workers. The first half of the strategy worked. By the end of this year Japan's biggest steelmakers will have closed 34 blast furnaces and trimmed their work force by 50,000 workers.
But the second part of the plan called for pushing Japan's heavy industries into new high-tech businesses. One after another they rushed into difficult-to-master tasks like developing gallium arsenide computer chips, biotechnology products, artificial intelligence programs and advanced computer technologies. So far the results are mixed at best.
Nippon Steel, for example, opened and then quickly closed a mail-order business. It also shut an international business communications center. Ventures in electronics, specialty materials and biotechnology are growing, but slowly; last year they accounted for 4 percent of the company's revenues. Nippon Steel says that will rise to 14 percent in 1993.
Later this month the company will go even farther afield, opening Space World, a theme park on the site of a remote plant that was closed.
What has saved the steel industry is something no one expected: the return of steel.
With huge investments in automation, the Kimitsu Works here reduced the cost of its hot coil steel to less than $400 a ton, making it competitive with that of Pohang Iron and Steel, the Korean giant. ''We've become one of the world's lowest-cost producers,'' said Bunichiro Kawasaki, the general superintendent of Kimitsu Works. ''But it took a long time and much money.''

GRAPHIC: graphs: total capital investments as a percentage of gross national product for Japan and U.S. from '78 to '89 (Source: Deutsche Bank) (pg. A1); total capital investment from '78 to '89 in U.S. and Japan (Source: Deutsche Bank) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5401 (TSE) (61%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (61%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3317 STEEL PIPE & TUBES (61%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: NIPPON STEEL & SUMITOMO METAL CORP (61%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (88%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); TRENDS (73%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (72%); SHIPBUILDING (54%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E



260 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-11
 
Lech Walesa will run for President in Poland. The Solidarity leader's declaration was the first step in a campaign that apparently seeks to force Wojciech Jaruzelski from office. Page A1

 
A compromise on German neutrality may be proposed by Moscow. Top advisers to President Gorbachev say the Soviet Union would accept German membership in both NATO and the Warsaw Pact for a transitional period. A1 
 
 
President Gorbachev's new powers might be used to impose Moscow's control over Lithuania as an extreme measure in case of civil conflict there, Tass reported. A10

 
The news of Lithuania, but with a Kremlin spin A10

Separatist coalition takes lead in voting in a Yugoslav republic A11

Mongolia's Communists trying to keep power A11

 
Japan will invest far more at home than the United States will domestically. Japan last year invested about 24 percent of its gross national product in new plants, equipment, research and development. The U.S. spent about 10 percent. A1

 
Two large Japanese companies announced plans to merge. The combination of the Mitsubishi Mining and Cement Company and the Mitsubishi Metal Corporation would be one of the largest ever in Japan. D1

 
A Libyan-supported terrorist group freed a Frenchwoman, her Belgian companion and their infant daughter in Beirut, more than two years after they were taken hostage as they cruised the Mediterranean on a pleasure boat. A1

 
A band of French terrorist suspects who reportedly carried out at least 33 killings over the last 12 years for a Spanish Basque separatist group were arrested after a routine identity check on a highway near Seville. A3

 
Shimon Peres and the Labor Party seem almost certain to form a new, left-leaning government unencumbered by a paralyzing coalition with the rightist Likud party. A3

 
Leaders of the opposition in Nepal denounced representatives of the non-party system against which they had protested for asserting that they intended to remain in power as ''an interim government.'' A8

 
Bush names envoy for Manila talks A6

Crackdown quiets Burmese in U.S. A9

In Canada's West, more protesters A5

Pilsen journal: A Bohemian city remembers when Patton came A4

 
NATIONAL A14-19, B5
 
An aggressive antismoking effort began in California. The state's sharp-edged, multimillion-dollar advertising campaign will be paid for by the smokers themselves through cigarette taxes. A1

 
Billboards in war on drugs bring criticism and lawsuit B5

 
Two oil tankers with double hulls were ordered from a South Korean shipbuilder by Conoco Inc., in a break with most of the domestic oil industry. The company said the ships would lessen the likelihood of oil spills. A1

 
Ann Richards won the runoff election in Texas. Ms. Richards, the state treasurer, defeated Jim Mattox, the attorney general, for the Democratic nomination for Governor after an extraordinarily bitter primary campaign. A1

 
Poor maintenance and design flaws were responsible for the accident last year on a United Airlines jet whose cargo door blew open over Hawaiian waters, killing nine passengers, Federal investigators said. A14

 
The space shuttle's mission to carry the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit was indefinitely postponed after a defective valve in the steering system halted the countdown within four minutes of liftoff. A16

 
Inquiry into stealth's performance in Panama is ordered A19

 
Washington Talk: Saying ''No'' to some constituents A16

 
Eight peace activists were sentenced for a protest in 1980 in which they poured their own blood on blueprints at a nuclear weapons plant. A14

 
More nuclear power plant workers were exposed to measurable radiation in 1988 than ever before, a consumer advocacy group said. A15

 
Hospital workers in California end strike A16

 
Job stress among men can cause potentially dangerous physical changes in the heart as well as high blood pressure, a new study has found. A19

 
Concord journal: Wherein public art doesn't please A14

Campus roiled as fraternity bars homosexual A17

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
A fire-retardant plywood used locally as a standard building material in town house developments has been found to decompose after a few years, leaving homeowners and builders with leaky and unsafe roofs and large repair bills. A1

 
The Chelsea church damaged by fire Monday night has received an outpouring of sympathy. Preservationists and religious and community organizations have offered to help restore the 124-year-old landmark. B3

 
Development of the Navy home port in Staten Island should be halted, Mayor Dinkins told the Defense Department. Although the Dinkins Administration cannot by itself block the project, its opposition sends a clear signal to Congress. B1

 
School districts across the region are facing some of the stiffest financial pressures in years, just as their states, also struggling to balance budgets, are cutting aid to them. B1

 
A dispute over a natural-gas pipeline in Dover, N.Y., has moved a big step forward. A landowner who lobbied to have the route of the pipeline moved off his empty field has volunteered to take it back. B1

 
A witness in the Bensonhurst slaying is a ''con man'' with a long criminal history, including convictions for robbery and rape, a prosecutor said. The witness was not identified.
B1

 
Teaneck police fatally shoot teen-aged boy B1

Doctor says family's killer had merely a ''mid-life crisis'' B3

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
THE LIVING SECTION
 
Food
Greek Orthodox Easter C1

Eating Well C1

60-Minute Gourmet C2

Microwave Cooking C3

De Gustibus C4

Sicilian treat for Easter C6

Food Notes C7

Wine Talk C8

 
Living
Computers and the elderly C1

Metropolitan Diary C2

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
Museum's bright future dims C11

Judson Church cenennial C11

Film: ''Crazy People'' C16

Music: The Pop Life C16

Baltimore Symphony C18

Dance: ''Airborne'' in Boston C13

Word and Image: ABC's ''Marshall Chronicles'' C11

''Inside the Soviet Writers'
Union'' C17

Book Notes C17

''The Living Clock'' on PBS C18

 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Money won't affect Mattingly A23

Viola on the spot A23

Basketball: Knicks lose A21

Column: Anderson on Mattingly A21

Hockey: N.H.L. reviewing Norton's injury A21

Top Ranger line struggles A21

Johnson will start for Devils A22

 
EDUCATION

 
Lessons B8

Education Secretary criticizes the values of Hispanic parents B8

Nuns help prisoners find freedom within walls B8

About Education B9

 
OBITUARIES D26
 
Rev. Dale S. Alexy, an Episcopal priest
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
EDITORIALS A24

 
For N.Y., more than money
The flag and a few punks
A secondhand arms treaty
Topics: Think tank tributes
 
Letters A24

Russell Baker: And yet they rise A25

Les Aspin: Moscow's new worry - its army A25

James J. Blanchard: Why not a ''solvency dividend''? A25

Peter Bloch: Sex 'n' drugs 'n'
Wagner A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (60%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); NEPAL (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); BELGIUM (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (88%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (60%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); BULK SHIPPING (71%); TERRORISM (70%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (69%); MARINE TANKERS (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (65%); ARRESTS (64%); LITIGATION (64%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); OIL SPILLS (62%); SMOKING (60%); SHIPBUILDING (60%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%); 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%); 



261 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Pilsen Journal;
G.I.'s or Russians? Time to Show the Snapshots

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PILSEN, Czechoslovakia, April 7

 BODY:
With lots of American flags and the beer that made this Bohemian city famous, Pilsen is cheerfully preparing to celebrate a truth that it holds dear but has rarely been able to tell. The last time was 22 years ago, during the brief spring of freedom in 1968.
What Pilsen had to keep secret is that 45 years ago it was the United States Army that liberated it from six years of German occupation. So intent were the Communists who ruled Czechoslovakia from 1948 until last autumn to be servile to the Soviet Union that they covered this fact to create the fiction that the Red Army freed all of Czechoslovakia. 
The liberation of Czechoslovakia east of here, and of all the lands east of here, was, of course, the work of the Red Army.
 
A Day for the Truth
But Anoa Hostickova, a municipal architect who grew up in Prague, said she thought a movie was being shot when in 1968 she saw people marching through the city with American flags. It was only when she mentioned this at work the next day that she learned that on May 5 and 6, 1945, two divisions under the command of Gen. George S. Patton Jr. drove the German Army from the city.
Jaroslav Rezac, a teacher of history and Czech literature, said textbooks gave the Soviet Union all the credit for Czechoslovakia's liberation and never mentioned the United States. He recalled that when he worked as a student guide at an exhibition in 1973 he told a class of schoolchildren that a photo giving the impression that Soviet troops drove the Germans from Pilsen was a misrepresentation. The teacher turned him in, and he was censured by his dean for telling the truth.
''They tried to erase history and create new history,'' said Vaclav Zeman, a lawyer. ''Teachers taught children that it was Russian soldiers in American uniforms who liberated us.''
This May 6, the truth will have its day in what is planned to be a great popular feast. President Vaclav Havel is expected to come to give credit where it is due, and Ambassador Shirley Temple Black will be there to receive it for the 16th Armored Division and the Second Infantry Division. #30 Vintage Jeeps Mr. Zeman, a member of the preparatory committee, which is part of the Civic Forum, the movement that under Mr. Havel's leadership overthrew Communist rule, said he had booked every room in the largest hotel to accommodate the many veterans of the two divisions who plan to come. After a reception at City Hall, all guests will repair to the brewery for lunch.
About 30 surplus jeeps, which the American Army sold to the Czechoslovaks before it withdrew at the end of 1945, are being put into running order to meet Mrs. Black at the former demarcation line between the American and Soviet occupation zones and escort her car to town. They will fly American flags and be driven by men wearing pieces of American uniforms that Pilsen people have kept as souvenirs.
In a rare display of cooperation between armies of the opposing alliances, a Czechoslovak contingent is to march to the music of an American Army band that is expected from West Germany, Mr. Zeman said. Negotiations are under way with an Austrian military museum to exchange an old Czechoslovak tank for a World War II American Sherman that Mr. Zeman's committee would like to make the centerpiece of an exhibition of liberation memorabilia.
A memorial to the Second Division will be put up, and the foundation stone laid for one for the 16th Armored.
Pilsen was forced to abandon the truth when the Communists seized power in 1948. A pedestal for a monument had been installed shortly after the liberation. During the three years in which Czechoslovakia enjoyed democratic government, the American liberation was duly celebrated.
On the first anniversary after the Communist coup, the pedestal, on a grassy island at a busy intersection, was the center of several days of implicitly anti-Communist demonstrations, as citizens came bearing American flags, flowers and candles, which the police removed overnight.
 
Lapels With American Flags
In later years, as anniversary tributes continued, first the base was removed, and when tributes continued at its former site, the traffic island also disappeared. Money that had been donated by citizens to commission the monument was sent by the Communist Government to North Korea during the war there.
Jaroslav Rezac Sr., the teacher's father and himself a teacher of English who was a volunteer interpreter for the Army, apologized for his moist eyes as he recalled the brief return of the truth in 1968. ''It was extraordinarily beautiful for us to hear the American anthem again,'' he said.
Many a lapel here carries pins bearing the American flag or the insignia of the two divisions, the product of enterprising citizens taking advantage of the occasion and the freeing of the once rigidly state-run economy. A local printer has run off stacks of American flags on paper, and cloth flags are expected any day.
 
'We Will Never Forget!'
A poster shows the two national flags (48 stars in the American one) and a photo of two G.I.'s on a tank in front of Pilsen Cathedral. In both languages there is an inscription, ''We Will Never Forget Boys!''
As late as last year, said Frantisek Rezac, a leader in a new, independent labor union who is not related to the teachers, several people were briefly detained on May 6 when they spoke at a forbidden meeting at a monument commemorating victims of the Nazis, and thanked Pilsen's real liberators.
''This is why this year it will be a popular festival,'' the union leader said. ''The lying about who liberated us meant one thing to the people here. The Communists took us for stupid.''

GRAPHIC: photo: When American troops liberated Pilsen, Czechoslovakia, in World War II, Pfc. Benjamin V. Bednarz handed out chewing gum to the children. Mr. Bednarz, who lives in River Edge, N.J., said recent events have laid to rest his fear that the children thought he had duped them. After the Communists consolidated power in 1948, children were taught in school that Pilsen was liberated by Russians in American uniforms. (U.S. Army); map: Pilsen, Czech.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (77%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); PILSEN (CZECHOSLOVAKIA)

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CZECHOSLOVAKIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HISTORY; CENSORSHIP; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BREWERIES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CENSORSHIP (70%); CHILDREN (70%); TEXTBOOKS (70%); 

PERSON: KAMM, HENRY VACLAV ZEMAN (75%); 



262 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
The News of Lithuania, But With Kremlin Spin

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 10

 BODY:
When it comes to reporting on the situation in Lithuania, Soviet news organizations have reverted to the one-sided, polemical style of the pre-glasnost era.
Some intellectuals who have benefited from President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's encouragement of greater openness now fear that it may be taken away from them under the pressures of ethnic separatism and economic decline.
As an example, such critics point to the nationwide evening television news program ''Vremya,'' which has been bending over backward to cover the opposition to the independence movement in Lithuania, where the newly elected Parliament, led by President Vytautas Landsbergis, proclaimed sovereignty on March 11.
''They're not reporting,'' a Russian philosophy professor said as the program began on Saturday night. ''They're preaching at us.'' Report on Vilnius Rally After showing scenes from a pro-independence rally in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, that was said to have attracted 300,000 people, the ''Vremya'' correspondent, Aleksandr Barkhatov, briefly interviewed a demonstrator who said he did not feel that there could be freedom in Lithuania without full independence. Mr. Barkhatov said Soviet Army loudspeaker trucks and a helicopter that dropped leaflets on the crowd were the only attempts to provide an opposing point of view, and he read the contents of one of the leaflets before the camera. 
Then followed a three-minute interview with the deputy director of the Committee of Citizens of the U.S.S.R. in Lithuania, Gennadi S. Tarasov, who complained that while Mr. Landsbergis said he wanted a calm and reasoned dialogue with the Soviet authorities, the new Lithuanian Government would require residents to sign loyalty oaths to get identity cards. ''I won't sign this, but I'm staying,'' he said. ''I'll be a second-class citizen.''
Eduard M. Sagalayev, chief editor of Soviet television's news programs, said in an interview Monday that he recognized that ''Vremya'' did not give a balanced picture. ''We'd like it to be, but there is pressure from the Government, from the military, from the Communist Party Central Committee,'' he said. ''Not from the President, but now that things have calmed down perhaps the pressure will ease and we can be more objective.''
 
No Formal Censorship
He said that there was no formal censorship, something that a new law on the press being discussed by the Supreme Soviet in Moscow this week will ban, and off-beat news shows like the weekly ''Vzglyad'' program sometime take a tack quite different from ''Vremya.'' But the ''pressure'' apparently affects others as well.
The official Soviet press agency Tass, reporting from Vilnius on Saturday about a Lithuanian proclamation encouraging young people to refuse the Soviet draft on May 4, clearly took sides against resisting induction.
Tass said many families of future draftees had been ''at a loss'' to understand the proclamation. ''One cannot but take into consideration the fact that many republican newspapers, radio and television are going hand in hand with the Sajudis leaders and are giving one-sided coverage of events in Lithuania,'' it said.
Last week, the television news coverage from Vilnius, from which foreign correspondents are now barred by the Soviet authorities, consisted largely of strikes by ethnic Russians opposed to Lithuanian independence. Lithuanian spokesmen said that participation in the protests was low and that they had little effect on the situation.
In the 1979 census, the latest for which data are available, 80 percent of Lithuania's 3.39 million people were ethnic Lithuanians. Russians were the second largest ethnic group, with 8.9 percent of the population, and Poles were next with 7.3 percent.
 
Letters in Pravda
Pravda, the Communist Party newspaper, has been running letters from citizens elsewhere in the country expressing concern about Lithuania's moves toward independence.
Today Pravda ran an unusually long dispatch, billed as a ''subjective'' report, by its correspondent Yuri Shabanov. It sensitively described the feelings of ostracism an ethnic Russian reporter experienced in a republic bent on throwing off the Russian yoke, but concluded that Sajudis was dictating anti-Soviet positions to the Lithuanian Parliament and that Mr. Landsbergis was trying to dictate to Moscow, too.
Yuri Bandura wrote in Moscow News, one of the few newspapers independent of Government or Communist Party control in Moscow: ''Official Moscow reports on the Lithuanian situation generally have a dry, tough and exacting tone,'' That newspaper, too, was critical of the way Mr. Landsbergis and his Lithuanian Government have handled the situation, with a series of what it described as unilateral ultimatums to Moscow.
Tankred Golenpolsky, editor of a new independent publication, the Newsletter of European Soviet Culture, said ''independence'' in the press here was still a relative thing.
''Where do you think the printing presses are?'' he said. ''Where does the newsprint come from?'' His newsletter is printed on the presses of Izvestia, the Soviet Government newspaper.
In Vilnius, Soviet armed forces seized the printing plant where the main Lithuanian independence newspapers are printed more than a week ago, but so far have not stopped them from coming out.
 
Editor's Ouster Stopped
In a case of attempted interference on the national level last year, Mr. Gorbachev tried to dismiss the editor of the country's most popular critical journal, Argumenty i Fakty. But buoyed by support from his staff, the editor, Vladislav A. Starkov, stood fast.
As the Communist Party newspaper, Pravda has no such claim to independence, and a resolution published in it on Saturday made clear that the party's view of what the role of the press should be had not really changed since Lenin's day. Pravda should support the party line by printing the truth and only the truth, it said, and help to make it the avant-garde of Soviet society -something prescribed by law in the Soviet Constitution until the party decided in February to relinquish the right to be the country's leading force.
Specifically, the resolution said, Pravda should report the news in a way that increased support for Mr. Gorbachev's policies of restructuring the economy. Pravda's longtime chief editor, Viktor G. Afanasyev, was replaced last October by Ivan T. Frolov, an aide to Mr. Gorbachev.
The resolution said that all the country's news organizations should lead an active fight against ''nationalism and chauvinism in all its forms,'' meaning, in the narrow sense, the kind of nationalism that led Lithuania to proclaim its independence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 



263 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;
Mattingly: Yankees' Last Tradition

BYLINE: By Dave Anderson

DATELINE: CLEVELAND

 BODY:
On the morning after signing a $19 million contract, somebody else might have awakened with a champagne hangover. Or fluffed the pillow and slept until noon. But if you're wondering why Don Mattingly deserves to be baseball's highest paid player and why all that money isn't likely to change him, consider the guest book near the weight machines and stationary bicycles in the health club of Stouffer Tower City Plaza hotel where the Yankees are lodged.
Just as the Yankees' opener last night with the Indians was postponed because of rain, 10 names were in the guest book. Nine were unfamiliar, probably those of traveling businessman. On the second line, in black ink, was ''Mattingly.'' 
If any of the other Yankees had worked out, none had signed the guest book. But after the announcement of his five-year, $19.3 million deal that begins in 1991 and averages $3.8 million a season, the Yankee first baseman had dutifully perspired. You'd think he was down to his last $2.5 million - his salary this season.
In the only Yankee tradition that George Steinbrenner has been able to maintain, Mattingly joined Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle, Jim (Catfish) Hunter, Reggie Jackson and Dave Winfield as baseball's highest paid player. At least until Jose Canseco or Bo Jackson gets a better deal.
With a .323 career average after having batted over .300 in each of his six full seasons, with 164 homers and 717 runs batted in, although he won't turn 29 years old until April 20, and with a threat to test the free-agent market, Mattingly had backed George Steinbrenner against the vault. And the principal owner opened it. ''Don Mattingly,'' the principal owner said humbly, ''will attract people to come and see my ball club play.''
For now it's still Steinbrenner's ball club, pending the outcome of Commissioner Fay Vincent's investigation of the principal owner's dealings with Howard Spira, an indicted extortionist and self-described gambler, in obtaining information to discredit Winfield's foundation.
Too bad the Babe and Joe D and Mickey weren't in pinstripes when George had the key to the vault. Then again, maybe they were better off. Imagine if George operated in the take-it-or-pump-gas era before free agency and not-so-free inflation.
When cynics questioned the Babe in 1930 for signing an $80,000 contract when President Hoover was making $75,000, he replied: ''Why not? I had a better year than he did.''
 
But that was the
Babe's highest salary. He had to argue with Ed Barrow, the steel-fisted general manager, for $75,000 in 1932, for $52,000 in 1933, and for $35,000 in 1934 before being traded to the Boston Braves.
When DiMaggio demanded $40,000 for 1938, his third season, Barrow reminded him that Lou Gehrig was making $43,000 after 13 years.
''In that case, Mr. Barrrow,'' DiMaggio said in those years long before agents, ''Mr. Gehrig is a very underpaid ballplayer.''
DiMaggio accepted $25,000 that year, but by 1949 he emerged as baseball's first $100,000 player, thanks to Toots Shor, then New York's most celebrated saloon keeper. DiMaggio was offered $85,000 plus an attendance bonus, but Shor advised him to go for $100,000 without a bonus. ''Be the first to make $100,000,'' Shor said. Dan Topping, then a co-owner with Del Webb, agreed to the $100,000 salary, but Webb demurred.
''I'm not going higher than $90,000 with the attendance bonus,'' Webb told Shor.
''Del,'' said Shor, ''ain't it worth another $10,000 to get your picture in all the papers with baseball's first $100,000 player?''
Webb's picture soon was in all the papers at a time when there were few television sets.
Mantle, who was rewarded with only $35,000 for his Triple Crown in 1956, finally made $100,000 in 1963, but baseball salaries didn't soar until Catfish Hunter suddenly became a free agent because of a missed 1974 bonus payment by Charles O. Finley, then the Oakland Athletics' owner. Hunter took Steinbrenner's offer of a five-year, $3.35 million contract that included insurance policies and attorney fees.
Then Reggie Jackson joined the Yankees in 1977 for $2.66 million over five years. And when Dave Winfield arrived for 1981 he signed a 10-year $23 million deal that outsmarted Steinbrenner who had not considered its compound-interest clause.
Steinbrenner's annoyance at Winfield's contract eventually inspired the prinicipal owner's $40,000 payment to Howard Spira that has inspired the commissioner's investigation. And now Steinbrenner's involvement with Spira has inspired the principal owner, desperate with what might be a desperate team, to open the vault for Don Mattingly.
If money is the root of most investigations, it's also the root of the last Yankee tradition.

GRAPHIC: photo: Don Mattingly (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES

SUBJECT: BASEBALL EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ATHLETES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); EXTORTION (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); INDICTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: MATTINGLY, DON; ANDERSON, DAVE DAVID R ANDERSON (59%); DAVID R ANDERSON (59%); 



264 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Help the Poor, but Don't Call It Welfare

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Yes: Drive Down the Deficit/ No: Don't Punish the Poor'' (editorial, March 18), which opposes deficit reduction at the expense of the poor and advocates increased taxes to improve poverty programs, undercuts its economic and moral argument by stating, ''Americans may not want to help the poor . . . but they surely can afford to.''
The common misperception that Americans do not want their taxes to support programs for the poor has been time and again disproved by well-designed scientific studies. These have found that most Americans oppose any program labeled ''welfare'' but are willing to support any program for the poor not tarred with this term. 
This was widely noted in 1977 in a national poll undertaken for The New York Times and CBS News to provide background information for reporting on the Carter Administration's welfare reform proposal. When asked, ''Do you approve of most Government-sponsored welfare programs?'' 58 percent answered, ''No.'' However, when asked whether they supported specific welfare programs not labeled as such, 82 percent approved of the Government's using their taxes ''to pay for health care for poor people'' (i.e., Medicaid); 81 percent approved of the Government's ''helping poor people buy food for their families at cheaper prices'' (i.e., food stamps), and 81 percent approved of the Government's ''providing financial assistance for children raised in low-income homes where one parent is missing'' (i.e., aid to families with dependent children).
Only 13 percent disapproved of these largest and most expensive programs for the poor, with approval cutting across rich and poor, conservatives and liberals.
In analyzing what the survey called the ''seeming contradiction'' of ''an American public that is deeply antagonistic to the concept of public welfare yet strongly supports what welfare programs do,'' your report concluded:
''The very word 'welfare' raised a kind of social red flag. But once the word is set aside, Americans display a deep compassion for those who are destitute and helpless.''
More than compassion, the poll found most Americans willing to have their tax dollars support programs for the poor.
Those findings may surprise or dismay others, but they are accepted as commonplace by social scientists familiar with similar polls and studies. Some have developed conceptualizations to describe the anti-welfare labels and pro-welfare programs orientation of most Americans. Seymour Lipset speaks of those with such attitudes as ''ideological conservatives'' and ''operational liberals.''
The excuse most often used for not providing adequately for the poor by politicians from the President on down is that the public won't stand for it. Particulary at this time of increasing hunger and homelessness, and decreasing Government assistance to the hungry and homeless, it is important for those demanding that the Government meet its obligations to assist the poor - to know - and to let the politicians know - that the great majority of Americans supports this demand.
 
ALFRED J. KUTZIK
 Brooklyn, March 25, 1990
The writer has served as a consultant to the welfare departments of Maryland and New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (56%); MEDICAID (54%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); PUBLIC OPINION INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MEDICAID (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); 

PERSON: KUTZIK, ALFRED J



265 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Why Not a 'Solvency Dividend'?

BYLINE: By James J. Blanchard; James J. Blanchard, a Democrat, is the Governor of Michigan.

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich.

 BODY:
With all the talk in Washington about a peace dividend, we're in danger of overlooking another kind of windfall, one that's enjoyed by Michigan and other prudently managed states.
I'm talking about a ''solvency dividend,'' the payoff in lower borrowing costs from making the tough choices to balance the budget and keep it balanced year after year.
As we put together our 1990-'91 budget proposal this winter, we took a moment to add up how much our strong financial management (including five credit rating upgrades since 1985 and seven consecutive balanced budgets) has saved the state in reduced borrowing costs. The total surprised even us - $1 billion since 1983, when we faced a $1.7 billion deficit in a $5 billion budget. 
We've taken that $1 billion and invested it in such things as education, economic development, law enforcement and environmental protection. We've increased state aid to elementary schools by 93 percent per pupil since 1983 and established an aggressive preschool program for ''at-risk'' 4-year olds. We have been able to invest in tomorrow's challenges rather than pay off yesterday's debt.
The $1 billion got us thinking. If the Federal budget were balanced - and kept balanced - how much could the country save?
Washington will spend at least $174 billion for interest on the national debt in 1990 - equal to about $1,500 for every taxpayer in America. Roughly 14 percent of the budget goes toward interest payments - into thin air, not clean air. Nor is the money going for education, the war on drugs and crime, housing or any of our nation's other pressing needs.
Total Federal spending on education, the environment, law enforcement, drugs, agriculture and transportation under President Bush's proposed budget doesn't equal interest payments on the national debt.
If there were no Federal debt, each state could receive a Federal solvency dividend. In Michigan, that would equal $7 billion annually, a sum nearly equal to our entire budget. New York would receive $17.5 billion a year. Indeed, if there were a Federal solvency dividend, the fiscal problems faced by many Northeastern states, including New York, would be erased; in fact, 45 states could eliminate all of their taxes.
This may sound farfetched. But it bears pointing out that if Washington had run balanced budgets since 1983, there still would be a solvency dividend to Michigan of about $3.5 billion each year. Since 1983, interest on the Federal deficit has doubled, illustrating the pervasive and spiraling nature of deficit spending.
We cannot afford to squander the opportunity to take the benefits of peace and invest them in the future. We must work for a solvency dividend and the financial freedom it will provide our own nation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US) BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); AIR QUALITY (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

PERSON: BLANCHARD, JAMES J (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



266 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Asks U.S. To Halt Development of S.I. Naval Port

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins has asked the United States Defense Department to stop development of the Navy port that has brought one cruiser to Staten Island and may bring several other ships there.
The Mayor sent a letter stating his opposition to Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney. Although the Dinkins administration's disapproval cannot by itself block the project, it sends a clear signal to Congress, which is already questioning whether it should spend billions of dollars more on new ports.
Ten of the 12 members of the House of Representatives from New York City have already told Mr. Cheney in a letter that the strategic rationale for home ports is no longer compelling, given changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and budgetary constraints. 
 
'No Reasonable Justification'
''At a time when the Navy is closing facilities, reducing its fleet and realigning its forces, there appears to be no reasonable justification for the construction of six new home ports,'' including one at Stapleton, Staten Island, the Congressmen's letter said.
In 1986 Congress authorized $198 million for construction of the Staten Island port, of which nearly $175 million has been spent. The port is 90 percent complete, and the Department of the Navy has requested an additional $20 million, which would bring the center's total cost to $218 million.
Mayor Dinkins's letter is the latest assault on the Staten Island port, which has so far survived lawsuits, strident grass-roots protests and bitter political tussles.
 
At Odds With Cuomo
His request fulfills a campaign promise to oppose further development of the base and puts him at odds with its supporters, including Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Borough President Guy V. Molinari of Staten Island, the former United States Representative who led the fight for the port in Congress.
In his April 6 letter to Mr. Cheney, the Mayor said changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, reductions in the defense budget and concerns about the safety of having ships that might carry nuclear weapons in New York Harbor outweighed arguments for the Staten Island port. He has proposed finding nonmilitary uses for the port. Noting the Navy's decision in January to mothball the battleship Iowa, which was to have been the jewel in the crown of the port, whose full name is Naval Station New York, Mr. Dinkins said, ''I urge you to forgo any steps to replace the Iowa with another battleship or other nuclear-armed vessels and I urge you to act now to cancel the proposed home port on Staten Island.''
There have been no known nuclear accidents involving the kinds of ships that would use the base.
 
Proponents Point to Revenues
A Defense Department spokesman, Lieut. Comdr. Gregg Hartung, said that Secretary Cheney had not yet received Mayor Dinkins's letter and that therefore the department declined to comment.
Proponents of the port called the Mayor's letter irresponsible and questioned how, given New York City's budget deficit, he could reject the $387 million a year that the Navy has estimated the port would generate in revenue for the city.
''When you have a city drowning in red ink, and the Mayor is coming out every day with more and more bad news, this doesn't make sense,'' Mr. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President, said. ''I think it's irresponsible on his part, and I wonder how he plans on digging out of the fiscal plight the city is in.''
Mr. Molinari said he would not ask President Bush to intervene, although he has been a consistent supporter of the President. ''It would be improper to ask the Commander in Chief to make a decision like this based on friendship,'' he said.
Opponents of the port said the Navy's estimates of its economic benefits were calculated on the assumption that the battleship Iowa, with its crew of about 1,600 and significant maintenance and repair requirements, would be berthed at the Stapleton base along with a six-ship support fleet. The Navy has designated Stapleton as the home port for the cruiser U.S.S. Normandy, which has a crew of about 364, but it has not said whether it still intends to berth the other six ships there.
Representative Ted Weiss, the Manhattan Democrat who has led the opposition to the port among the city's Congressional delegation, called Mr. Dinkins's letter ''a very significant step forward.''
''It never really made any strategic sense, it never made any budgetary sense, and whatever military reasons there were for it went out the window when they mothballed the Iowa,'' Mr. Weiss said.
The Stapleton port and other home ports came off the drawing boards in the Reagan Administration when the Navy anticipated a 600-ship fleet and was worried about running out of space at existing ports. The strategic rationale was to eliminate the possibility that the Navy would be crippled by an attack on a large base.
 
Scaled Back to Six Ports
The original plan called for 13 bases scattered around the country, many in the districts of influential members of Congress, but the plan has since been scaled back to six.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who originally supported the port program, said last month that the Staten Island base ''makes no sense,'' and Senator John Warner, Republican of Virginia, who cast the crucial vote in favor of the home ports in 1986, has asked Secretary Cheney to reconsider the program.
In a letter responding to Senator Warner, who was Secretary of the Navy in the Nixon and Ford Administrations, Mr. Cheney said, ''The Navy, in particular, is re-evaluating the Strategic Home Porting Plan along with other parts of the shore-based infrastructure.''
In its bid for the Staten Island port, which was supported by the Koch administration, the city agreed to spend $11 million to repair the bulkhead at Stapleton and $22 million to upgrade streets. A spokesman for Mayor Dinkins, Leland T. Jones, said that money for the bulkhead would remain in the budget but that expenditures for street repairs would be reconsidered.
He said the city has not considered what it might do if the Navy goes ahead with the port.
 
Concern With Safety
Mayor Dinkins has opposed the port since it was proposed in 1983, primarily on safety grounds, which he raised again in his letter to the Defense Secretary. Nuclear weapons may be deployed on ships based at Stapleton, and opponents fear that a mishap might result in the release of plutonium over a densely populated area. As a matter of policy, the Navy does not confirm which ships carry nuclear missiles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor David N. Dinkins has asked the Department of Defense to stop development of the Navy home port on Staten Island. (The New York Times/Frank C. Dougherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; NAVIES NAVIES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); MAYORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); LITIGATION (64%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (89%); 



267 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Tax Revolts and Cuts in Aid Batter Schools

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

DATELINE: RIDGEWOOD, N.J., April 10

 BODY:
Local school districts across the metropolitan region are facing some of the stiffest financial pressures in years, just as their states, also struggling to balance budgets, are cutting aid to them.
Last spring taxpayers rejected school budgets in scores of communities in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. Officials say their budgets for the next school year are meeting even greater resentment now as soaring health-insurance costs and rising teacher salaries have again pushed increases well above the inflation rate.
School superintendents seem more concerned this year with placating residents who are angry over high property taxes, which have grown steadily over the last decade even as school enrollments have declined.
 
Budget Cuts and Teacher Layoffs
From Bergen County, N.J., to Fairfield County, Conn., even the most affluent suburbs have cut hundreds of thousands of dollars from budgets and prepared to lay off teachers. 
But officials in all three states say the reductions in state aid are compounding their difficulties. ''We've just put a very bad year behind us, and there's the specter of another one coming up,'' said Louis Grumet, executive director of the New York State School Boards Association.
In New Jersey and Connecticut, many school superintendents feel state authorities are double-crossing them. Both states have proposed providing significantly less in local grants than stipulated by their school-aid formulas, guaranteeing either higher property taxes or educational cuts, critics say.
''There's hypocrisy at both the state and Federal levels,'' complained Frederick J. Stokley, the Schools Superintendent in Ridgewood, one of New Jersey's highest-achieving districts. ''The cry from our 'education Governor' and our 'education President' is we have to get our children ready for the 21st century. They all verbalize about their commitment to education, but the rhetoric is not being backed up. Schools are moving backward.''
In New Jersey, Gov. Jim Florio has proposed $2.6 billion in aid for local districts next year, $517 million less than the state's aid formula stipulates. His proposal is also $656,496 less than current spending, meaning the state's 40.4 percent share of local educational expenses would drop sharply.
 
'Very Short-Sighted'
In Connecticut, Gov. William A. O'Neill has proposed $871 million in aid, $62 million less than stipulated by his state's aid formula. Unless some money is restored by the General Assembly, the state's share of local educational costs will drop from 44.7 percent to 44.1.
''I think it's very short-sighted and a tragedy for education in Connecticut,'' said Terry Cassidy, executive director of the Connecticut Association of School Boards. ''The state has greater latitude for increasing taxes than local school boards. But the state doesn't seem to have the will to support its schools at the rate they should be.''
In Ridgewood, officials recently cut $500,000 from a proposed budget of $38.9 million. Then the state announced that it was providing $262,000 less in aid than the district had anticipated.
Stung by last spring's budget defeat, only the fifth in Ridgewood since 1946, school officials decided against further increasing a proposed tax increase of 7.9 percent, or about $275 on the average home. Instead, Dr. Stokley said, they will try to recoup the $262,000 in a new teachers' contract.
This maneuvering is so much minutia to Harry Whitmore, whose youngest child graduated from Ridgewood High in 1968 and whose annual property taxes are $6,000.
''I just look at the bottom line and at my taxes, and they just can't keep adding and keep adding and keep adding,'' he said. ''Most people feel the budget is higher than it needs to be.''
 
Good Schooling vs. Taxes
With a vote on the Ridgewood budget due on April 24, high-school students are organizing to get supporters out to vote, and debate among residents is brisk.
''It's a superior school system, and the kids are serious about their education, said Marie Sullivan, the mother of four children. ''I'm not for shortchanging them.''
But Karen Klempner, the mother of a 5-month-old baby, said her $7,000 property tax bill had stymied the sale of her town house for six months. ''People just are not buying the 'good schools' argument anymore,'' she said. ''They say the taxes are outrageous.''
State aid problems also are looming for districts in New York. For the state budget that was to have gone into effect on April 1, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo recommended increasing the state's current $8.5 billion in local school aid by $240 million. But that is $725 million less than recommended by the state's Board of Regents, said Mr. Grumet of the School Boards Association.
 
Taxes or Service Cuts
''It takes $593 million more a year just to stay even in terms of state aid,'' he said. ''Every penny we come in below that figure means local property taxes will skyrocket again or services will be cut.''
The bleak state aid picture comes a year after the region's deepest assault on school budgets in years. Last April, 38 percent of New Jersey's 1989-90 budgets - 210 of 553 - were defeated in the worst anti-tax wave since 1975.
In New York, 21 percent of budgets - 135 of 642 - lost in the first round of voting a year ago, the highest rejection rate since 23 percent of the budgets lost in 1981.
Connecticut's school budgets are reviewed by local boards of finance, not voters. Of 120 district budgets checked by the Association of Boards of Education a year ago, 80 percent were rejected or cut deeply by the finance boards, Mr. Cassidy said.
Cost-cutting seems commonplace now across the region, regardless of a district's wealth and reputation.
In Westport, one of Connecticut's premier systems, the finance board has ordered an $890,000 cut in a proposed budget of $33.2 million. The cut is triple the highest one in previous years, school officials said.
 
Average Salary $50,150
Officials say the average teacher salary in the Fairfield County suburb is $50,150. Like many districts, Westport, after a decade of little hiring, has many older teachers at the top of the pay scale. In addition, Connecticut, like many states, has pushed to raise teacher salaries. Teachers now sense a taxpayer backlash.
''There's a teacher-bashing mentality out there,'' said Richard Leonard, president of the teachers' union and an English teacher at Staples High for 30 years. ''When we were making $25,000 and $30,000, people were less critical. Now that we're up in the 50's, people are saying they don't want to pay that kind of money.''
If the $890,000 cut prevails, at least seven teaching jobs will be eliminated, officials said.
In Danbury, Conn., the 8,300-student system is still reeling from last year's loss of 62 jobs, including those of 42 teachers, after city officials halved a proposed 11 percent budget increase. School officials, hopeful that a new city administration will be more sympathetic, have again proposed an 11 percent increase to the district's $50 million budget.
''Even if we get the full 11 percent, we could restore only 17 of the 62 positions we lost last year,'' said Danbury's Schools Superintendent, Anthony Singe.
 
Insurance a 'Real Killer'
Among the district's problems are premiums for health and dental insurance for employees, which have grown to $6.6 million for 1990-91 from $3.5 million in 1987-88, Dr. Singe said. ''That's a real killer for us,'' he said. Insurance premiums in Perth Amboy, an old industrial hub in New Jersey, have gone from $2.9 million in 1988-89 to nearly $5 million for 1990-91. Half of an original $2.2 million increase for the 1990-91 budget was for health-insurance premiums, said Superintendent Frank N. Sinatra.
But then the state proposed giving Perth Amboy $3.4 million less than it anticipated, leaving a $5.7 million bill for taxpayers, Mr. Sinatra said. ''They'll never accept that,'' he said. Imposing a wage freeze and forcing staff members to pay a part of health-insurance premiums are the most likely solutions, he said.
 
Fighting 'Frills and Luxuries'
Taxpayer resistance in the region was localized until Tax Pac, an anti-tax group, was created a year ago in Suffolk County, L.I., by David J. Willmott, the 51-year-old publisher of a weekly, Suffolk Life. Mr. Willmott says Tax Pac has 30,000 dues-paying members spread across 90 percent of Suffolk's 960 election districts. School officials in Albany consider the group the state's strongest foe of school budgets.
''We want to eliminate from school budgets all frills and luxuries that taxpayers cannot afford and have nothing to do with mainstream education,'' Mr. Willmott said.
Budgets should finance only state-mandated core curriculum and elective courses, he said, and activities like football and drama clubs should have their own budgets and be voted on. If these budgets lose, the parents of participating students or booster clubs should finance the programs, he said.
He also wants the state to finance fully all programs that it mandates, except for the core curriculum. On that point, he sounds like some New Jersey superintendents angry about chronic state underfinancing of local aid.
''There's talk among school boards about not paying for state-mandated items like asbestos removal and radon monitoring,'' Dr. Stokley said. ''If they don't fund their law, why should we follow their mandates?''
Harold Morris, Superintendent in Teaneck, N.J., complained: ''They don't obey their own law, yet they can impose programs on districts and say we have to obey. It's a double standard. For years, taxpayers have been shortchanged and fooled by the state, and that's unconscionable.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I just look at the bottom line and at my taxes, and they just can't keep adding and keep adding and keep adding,'' said Harry Whitmore, who pays $6,000 in property taxes in Ridgewood, N.J. (The New York Times/Eddie Hausner); ''It's a superior school system, and the kids are serious about their education,'' said Marie Sullivan about Ridgewood's system. ''I'm not for shortchanging them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES BUDGETS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CITIES (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT



268 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: For a Burned Church, Help Pours In

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

 BODY:
All day long, donations and expressions of sympathy poured in for the Church of the Holy Apostles, the Chelsea landmark heavily damaged by fire Monday night.
A stranger, moved by the ravaged building, walked up to a church official, wrote a $100 check and left. Religious and community organizations, preservationists and friends and neighbors all sent messages to the Episcopal parish, offering to help restore the church. 
The expressions of support revealed New York's deep feelings for the church, a 142-year-old structure at Ninth Avenue and 28th Street that operates the largest soup kitchen in the city.
 
More Volunteers
Yesterday, more volunteers than usual came to the soup kitchen in the adjacent mission house, which was untouched by the fire. They served a cold meal of macaroni and tuna salad and fruit and juice. The chef changed the menu from chili because the electricity had been cut off.
''We served 950 meals today,'' the rector, the Rev. William A. Greenlaw, said.
As he surveyed the smoke-blackened building, its roof now bearing a gaping hole and its chancel strewn with charred timber and debris, Mr. Greenlaw said he was devastated.
''I am asking the people of New York to respond generously to our need or we won't be able to make it,'' he said.
He estimated damages to be from $3 million to $4 million, adding that he hoped insurance would cover most of it.
He said more than half of the church's 19 stained glass windows were damaged, including 5 of 10 ''priceless panes'' by the 19th-century designers John and Willial Jay Bolton. The newly completed slate roof, which the church raised $500,000 to renovate, ''is close to a total loss,'' he said.
The wood beams over a third of the building were destroyed, and all the interior plaster was damaged by smoke. Assistant Commander John Mulligan of the New York City Fire Department said the blaze was considered ''an accident'' caused by workers using a propane torch that ignited the roofing material.
Waiting in the line at the soup kitchen yesterday, Nathan Johnson, an unemployed morgue supervisor who said he lives ''out there,'' said he was shocked when he heard of the fire and was afraid the lunch program would be canceled.
''I didn't know where I would get a meal today,'' he said, ''but had faith that God would direct me.''
Many anxious parishioners and neigbors have been stopping to ask where they can send donations to the church, said James T. Novack, volunteer coordinator at the soup kitchen.
Mr. Greenlaw said people have begun to rally around in a show of solidarity. He expressed appreciation for a call from a representative of John Cardinal O'Connor's office, which offered the use of a Roman Catholic center.
 
'Deeply Concerned'
The Church of St. Luke in the Fields, which was rebuilt after a 1981 fire, sent a check for $500. Other churches in the neigborhood have offered help.
One of the first callers was the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, who asked what she could do, Mr. Greenlaw said. He said there were also calls from from Deputy Mayor Barbara Fife's office and Assemblyman Richard Gottfried.
''All the preservation community is deeply concerned over this unnecessary hardship and impressed with the resilience and determination of Rector Greenlaw,'' said Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel, who heads the New York Landmarks Preservation Foundation.
She said the church ''deserves our regard and financial help.''

GRAPHIC: More than half of the Church of the Holy Apostles' stained glass windows were damaged by fire on Monday, including 5 of 10 ''priceless panes'' by the 19th-century designers, John and Willial Jay Bolton, the church's rector said. A worker removed pieces of a broken pane yesterday. (The New York Times/Don Hogan Charles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHURCH OF THE HOLY APOSTLES (MANHATTAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHELSEA (NYC)

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH RELIGION (91%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FIRES (90%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ROOFING MATERIALS (67%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE WILLIAM AGREENLAW (90%); 



269 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Work Force Failing To Meet Math Needs

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10

 BODY:
Although the fastest-growing occupations require a mathematical background, a new report contends that a growing number of people entering the work force will not have the required training.
''Unless changes occur, the nation's needs for mathematically skilled teachers, scientists, engineers and hosts of other workers for business, industry and government will not be met,'' said the report, issued today by the National Research Council, a private group that advises Congress on scientific issues.
By the year 2000, the need for workers in these fields is expected to rise by 36 percent over the 1986 figure, the report said. But at the same time demographic trends indicate that the traditional pool of scientists and engineers, white males, will fall at roughly the same rate. 
There will be 21 million new jobs a decade from now, the report said, with most requiring mathematical backgrounds and post-secondary education.
 
Change in the Work Force
The report said 85 percent of new entrants into the work force are minorities and women, but few minorities and women enter engineering and science, a field including mathematicians.
To compound the situation, the report said the existing shortage of qualified math teachers at all levels will grow worse in the next decade if the pattern does not change. ''The current number of new doctoral degree holders taking academic positions in the United States will not even be sufficient to replace faculty lost to retirement,'' it said.
Within the next 20 years, black and Hispanic students will make up 30 percent of the college-age population, yet few minority students pursue mathematics as a career, according to the study, ''A Challenge of Numbers: People in the Mathematical Sciences.''
 
Few Minorities in Math Field
Only six percent of those who have doctorates in mathematics are minorities.
Although women are receiving bachelor's degrees in mathematics in numbers equal to men, only 17 percent of those receiving mathematics doctorates are women.
''There are simply not enough people studying math and the sciences,'' said William E. Kirwan, the president of the University of Maryland at College Park, who serves as chairman of the Committee on the Mathematical Sciences in the Year 2000, which produced the report. ''I am hoping that the signs of economic trouble will waken people to the consequences.''
The report was the second of three in a series on trends and needs in mathematics education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL; 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MATHEMATICS LABOR FORCE (92%); MATHEMATICS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TRENDS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); 



270 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
About Education

BYLINE: By Fred M. Hechinger

 BODY:
The shaping of child-care legislation is made difficult by long neglect. How can this nation catch up with care that should have been provided years ago and that has long been available in other industrial societies? The problem is compounded by a similar backlog of other unmet social needs, like health insurance and care for the elderly. the issue boils down to money; creating a new child-care structure is expensive.
The median start-up cost of an early childhood education center, for example, is estimated at $48,500. In some places, however, the cost can go as high as $900,000. These figures come from a report, ''Early Childhood Education: What Are the Costs of High-Quality Programs?'' done by the United States General Accounting Office and presented to the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources. The report put the average cost of early education for a 4-year-old at $4,797 in fiscal 1988. 
On average, 69 percent of that cost was paid by parents, with 15 percent more coming from other private sources, like churches, colleges and fund-raisers. Only 16 percent was covered with public funds. This suggests that little money, and therefore little child care, was provided for poor families, the very people who need it most.
''Despite increased enrollments in early childhood education programs,'' the report says, ''disproportionately fewer low-income and minority children receive a preschool education than children of higher-income families.'' At last count, only 33 percent of 4-year-olds from families with annual incomes below $10,000 had the benefit of preschool education, compared with 67 percent from families with incomes over $35,000.
The G.A.O. study surveyed 265 accredited centers serving 4-year-olds full time and all year. At the core of the problem are staff salaries, which amount to nearly three quarters of a center's costs. Early childhood teachers earn an average salary of $16,000 a year, the report estimates, compared with $38,000 for public school teachers nationwide. As a result, highly qualified people willing to work in the centers are hard to find, and many of the best leave child care for regular teaching jobs.
Dismal as the G.A.O. numbers may be, many economists consider even those figures overly optimistic. Victor R. Fuchs, a professor of economics at Stanford University who has been researching the child-care field, emphasized that there are also many part-timers working for extremely low hourly wages.
And the Child Care Employees Project, a nonprofit group in Oakland, Calif., says the average hourly wage for child-care workers in 1988 was $5.35, amounting to an annual income of $9,431, placing them near the poverty line. It is not surprising that every year about 40 percent of these workers quit their jobs.
Professor Fuchs points to the French child-care experience: Staff members get the same training and pay as elementary school teachers. They also usually have to take care of about twice the number of children as they would be required to supervise in American centers. (The G.A.O. report speaks of a ratio of 10 or 11 children for each adult as ideal.) But the greater pay appears to promise greater stability in staffing and higher-quality personnel.
The G.A.O. study addresses only a partial step toward a solution. The issue is no longer merely early childhood education but how to care for children virtually from birth.
The report reminds the Senate that the percentage of employed women with children under age 6 has tripled in the last three decades and now stands at 63 percent and rising. This answers the well-intentioned but out-of-date conservative view that child care should be placed in a mother's hands.
Scandinavia has led the movement to have full-time child care available from early morning until early evening, even for infants. It is expensive. In Denmark, the cost for a child is between $5,000 and $7,500 a year, and the charge to parents who can afford to pay is about $230 a month until age 3 and $150 thereafter.
The Swedish model is much more lavish - it comes to about $10,000 a child - but its costs could undoubtedly be reduced by increasing the number of children per adult, which is currently three or four.
Whatever the best model for the United States, a vast effort is required to train high-quality people and provide competitive pay. As child-care legislation once again moves through Congress, the next few weeks may suggest some answers about just what price Congress, President Bush (who has threatened to veto costly proposals), local communities and parents may be willing to pay. Cost and quality of child care are obviously linked. Millions of children, if neglected in their early years, will eventually be a heavy - and expensive - burden to society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL); FINANCES EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ACCREDITATION (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); AGING (57%); 

PERSON: HECHINGER, FRED M VICTOR R FUCHS (57%); 



271 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: A New Museum's Bright Future Grows Dim

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NORTH ADAMS, Mass.

 BODY:
Once a bright gleam in the cultural future of Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, a projected $86 million complex for contemporary art, has lost much of its luster. Some in this financially strapped state are calling it ''the miracle that's become a mirage.''
The idea of using a vast abandoned factory site in this economically depressed town as a home for art of the postwar era was conceived by Thomas Krens, now the director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York.
But this state's fiscal crisis and concern about the museum's ability to generate predicted economic benefits have diminished the enthusiasm of some supporters and bolstered the resistance of its opponents.
A glowing feasibility study and master plan, now being reviewed by the state's Office of Administration and Finance, says that the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art - popularly known by the acronym Mass Moca -can ''be a cultural attraction of international magnitude and appeal, and an economic agent of great potential for Northern Berkshire County.'' The museum, which is to occupy a 13.5-acre maze of courtyards and mill buildings that make up the abandoned Sprague Technologies plant here, would work, the study asserts, ''by combining the allure of art with the forces of commerce in a mixed-use plan that is both dynamic and practical.'' 
The study was done by the executive planning group of the Mass Moca Cultural Development Commission, a nine-member body appointed by Gov. Michael S. Dukakis and headed by Mr. Krens.
A $35 million bond issue to help finance Mass Moca was approved two years ago by the State Legislature. And the museum's sponsors have tentatively scheduled the first phase of its opening for March 1993. Should Art Outrank Schools and Aged? Yet as Massachusetts confronts its economic crisis, legislators and their constituents are questioning whether to go ahead with the project when funds for education and care to the elderly have been cut and state spending for the arts, which two years ago stood at $27 million, was slashed to $17.3 million in January.
''When you can't pay the mortgage, you don't put a deck on the house,'' said Christopher J. Hodgkins, a Democratic State Representative from Lee, in the Berkshires. ''Although I voted for it, I was dubious from the beginning. It's a creative project, but one whose costs aren't meshing. There's a lot of smoke and mirrors involved.''
Yet Governor Dukakis and some state officials and legislators, particularly those from the area of North Adams, where the closing of the Sprague plant in 1985 abolished some 3,500 jobs, are still pushing for Mass Moca. They see it as a way to create jobs and tourist revenue. And other officials say the museum will not draw on the state's $12 billion operating budget. They point out that the $35 million general obligation bond issue will be sold to private investors, although interest payments to bondholders, made higher by a downgrading in the state's bond rating, will come from state money.
What's more, within two years after its opening, the project could -as have other Massachusetts cultural institutions - call on the state-financed Massachusetts Cultural Council for operating money. Richard Schwartz, a spokesman for the council, said that the agency was ''a bit nervous'' about that possibility, because ''it could be a very large sum for us.''
A decision on the feasibility study will probably occur this spring, said Gary A. Shepard, the state's Assistant Secretary of Economic Affairs. ''If we decide that it's do-able from an operational and functional point of view, that our money will be invested properly with a good chance of a return on our investment, then we will O.K. it,'' Mr. Shepard said. ''If our decision is positive, we will hopefully get money flowing within this fiscal year.'' West German Idea Set in the Berkshires Mass Moca was conceived by Mr. Krens in 1985 when he was the director of the Williams College Art Museum in prospering Williamstown, next door to North Adams. Inspired by the example of a factory converted for use as an art gallery in Cologne, West Germany, he envisioned the Sprague plant as an arena for installations of large-scale contemporary art. The museum, designed by a stellar architectural team headed by Frank Gehry and Robert Venturi along with David Childs of Skidmore Owings & Merrill, would help pay for itself by incorporating commercial facilities, such as a luxury inn, three restaurants and design-related shops.
''It came into being because I and others believed that no cultural institution existing today had the capacity to deal with large-scale postwar art,'' Mr. Krens said recently. ''Mass Moca is solely an opportunity that came up by the convenient conjunction of the financial success of Massachusetts, the relative financial distress of North Adams, the availability of a concentration of land and buildings and the recognition that maybe this kind of thing could work.
''I don't have all the answers for Mass Moca. I think it needs a champion and I'll continue to act in that capacity. But it also needs reinforcement in the collective will of the artistic community - artists, collectors, curators, dealers.''
Mr. Krens, who appears bent on setting up an international network of museums under the Guggenheim's aegis, said that the Guggenheim had no financial involvement with Mass Moca. And he denied that pressure from the Guggenheim's board had caused him to distance himself from the North Adams project. He said he was in close touch with Joseph Thompson, Mass Moca's director.
He added: ''Look, I am the last person to spend $35 million of state money if Mass Moca is not going to be successful. I don't need it as an albatross around my neck.'' Home for Great Art Needs Great Art One hurdle seen by David Ross, the director of the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston and one of the nine Mass Moca commissioners, is ''whether great collections would indeed materialize.'' He elaborated: ''All of us on the commission feel very strongly that if the museum has to function as a kunsthalle without an extremely long-term collection of very important material, would it provide the draw? It needs the goods, and they must be goods that will draw people from all over the world.''
As a start in stocking the museum, which would focus on the art of the 1960's, 70's and 80's, Mr. Krens says he has pledges for the long-term loan of major holdings from Count Giuseppe Panza di Buomo of Milan, the New York dealers Ileana and Michael Sonnabend, the English collector Charles Saatchi and the German Architectural Museum in Frankfurt. He maintained that the Panza loan for Mass Moca has nothing to do with a recent agreement between the Guggenheim and Mr. Panza for the purchase and gift of more than 200 works from his collection.
Works from the Panza collecton, for instance, to be installed at Mass Moca, would include large-scale light and space installations by the artists James Turrell and Dan Flavin and sculptural pieces by the English artist Richard Long, as well as works by well-known Conceptual artists. e Count Panza has said that he is ready to lend Mass Moca 300 works, although the difficult financial situation in Massachusetts makes the prospect uncertain. Mrs. Sonnabend said recently that she was also committed to lending her collection, which was traveling for a year and a half. ''When it comes back, we'll see,'' she said.
The museum's ultimate cost, originally projected at $77.5 million, is now put at $85.7 million because of increases attributed to inflation through 1997. Already $1.7 million of the bond issue has gone to finance the feasibility study. Some $38 million -including the remainder of the bond issue, $33.3 million, plus $5 million to be privately raised - would be spent on Phase 1 of the building program before Mass Moca could open its doors, providing over 200,000 square feet of exhibition space, a climate control plant and a museum shop and cafe. Private developers would simultaneously build a luxury hotel, three restaurants and retail shops, all for $17.8 million. Akira Tobishima, the head of a major Japanese construction company, who was recently made a trustee of the Guggenheim Museum, has expressed interest in building the hotel.
Phase 2 of the program would add an additional 180,000 square feet, at a cost of $27.2 million more. An additional $12.5 million would be raised for endowment.
The only new building at the factory complex would be a prefabricated structure for large-scale changing exhibitions, Mr. Thompson said. Seeing the Future In Other Pasts ''The museum will be the first permanent platform for large-scale art of the past 30 years,'' he added. ''It will present in depth the kind of art which is now only sampled in most public collections.'' Economically, Mass Moca would in the long run ''decrease the drag on social services in an area that hasn't enjoyed great prosperity anyway,'' Mr. Thompson continued. He also said it would add an enriching presence to existing cultural institutions in the Berkshires -including the Sterling and Francine Clark Institute in Williamstown, the Williamstown Summer Theater, Jacob's Pillow and Tanglewood -that would increase visitor potential to the area.
But there are those who dispute the optimistic projections. They point out that although Mass Moca forecasts an annual attendance of 150,000, the Clark Institute, a small gem of an encyclopedic museum noted for, among other things, its large collection of Renoirs, averages only 120,000 visitors a year, partly because of the relative inaccessibility of the northern Berkshire area. In addition, the art to be shown at Mass Moca, much of it austere and intellectual in concept, is less appealing to a general audience.
''New England has traditionally been behind in contemporary art, so we would hope that such an undertaking could succeed,'' said James Welu, the director of the Worcester Art Museum. ''But we don't want it to be a white elephant. A major concern is whether a constituency could be developed to support such a large undertaking into the future. Historically, museums follow affluence, they don't usually create it.''
But David Ross said, ''We all feel we have to struggle, but if another powerful institution was created that would help bring more energy and money to the state - well, a rising tide lifts all ships.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the projected Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, in North Adams, misattributed a feasibility study. It was made by outside professional organizations, not by the executive planning group of the Mass Moca Cultural Development Commission.

GRAPHIC: photo: Thomas Krens, whose idea it was to turn an abandoned factory site in North Adams, Mass., into a complex for contemporary art. (The New York Times/David Jennings); map: North Adams, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SPRAGUE TECHNOLOGIES (62%); MASS MOCA CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART

SUBJECT: ART; FINANCES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); CLOSINGS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); BOND ISSUES (50%); TOURISM (50%); BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE THOMAS KRENS (73%); ART OUTRANK SCHOOLS (62%); 



272 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
Conoco is ordering two new oil tankers designed to reduce the likelihood of oil spills like that of the Exxon Valdez last year. The move represents a break with the stance of most U.S. oil companies, which have so far resisted double-hulled tankers. [Page A1.] 
Mitsubishi Metal and Mitsubishi Mining and Cement will merge in a $2 billion deal. The deal, a surprise to analysts, aims to focus both companies' efforts on developing a new generation of high-technology industrial products. [D1.]
The unsecured creditors of Eastern Airlines asked the bankruptcy court to appoint a trustee to take over the airline. [D1.]
Lockheed said it had successfully beaten back an attempt by the Dallas financier Harold Simmons to gain control of the company through a proxy contest. [D1.]
The parent of Credit Suisse has taken a big stake in Bank Leu, Switzerland's oldest bank. [D1.]
California began an antismoking advertising campaign that will be paid for by smokers through cigarette taxes. [A1.]
UAL formally agreed to sell the company, the parent of United Airlines, to its employees for about $4.38 billion. [D4.]
United Airlines, Boeing and the F.A.A. all had roles in an accident that killed nine passengers last year, investigators said. [A14.]
New England's largest electric utility has promised to allow other regional electric companies access to its transmission lines if its deal to buy Public Service of New Hampshire is approved. [D15.]
Walt Disney released a study indicating that 90 percent of moviegoers do not want commercials shown in theaters. [D25.]
 
 
 
The Economy
A Federal district judge in the Lincoln Savings case asked Government lawyers to provide him with the basis of their estimate of taxpayer losses related to the seizure of the institution. [D2.]
 
International
Air travel in Europe will come to a ''near standstill'' by the end of the decade if improvements are not made, a study said. [D14.]
 
 
 
Markets
Oil prices continued to tumble as mounting surpluses of petroleum caused increased waves of selling here and overseas. [D1.]
Stocks prices rose slightly in dull trading. The Dow rose 9.01 points to end the session at 2,731.08. [D10.]
A second unsuccessful auction of 40-year bonds by Resolution Funding pushed prices of Treasury securities lower. [D18.]
Yields were mixed on C.D.'s and money market accounts at banks and savings institutions. [D18.]
The dollar declined sharply against most major currencies amid concerns about continued central-bank intervention. [D19.]
 
Business Technology
The gas turbine is becoming the utility industry's main hope for the next decade largely because of a series of technical and economic changes that have been made recently. [D9.]
A company has built a prototype gas burner that uses photovoltaic cells to turn light into electricity. [D9.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
In Hungary's move to relax socialist controls, halfway measures could backfire. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Owners of ''junk bonds'' may be able to sleep better at night. The president of Twenty-First Securities has a new hedging strategy that he says will offset some of the risk of investing in the debt issues. Market Place. [D10.]
Edward A. McCabe is returning to advertising. The former president of Scali, McCabe, Sloves will join Beber, Silverstein, a small Miami agency. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D25.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (85%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (57%); CLARIDEN LEU AG (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); BOEING CO (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (86%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (86%); PARENT COMPANIES (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); JUDGES (70%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); AUCTIONS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (63%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (50%); 

PERSON: HAROLD C SIMMONS (56%); 



273 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Oil Prices Off Sharply as Supplies Rise

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Oil prices continued to tumble yesterday as mounting surpluses of petroleum caused increased waves of selling here and overseas. The May contract for crude oil settled at an eight-month low of $17.68 a barrel, down 76 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the largest energy market.
Citing the recent sharp drop in oil prices, the official press agency of Saudi Arabia predicted ''evil consequences'' if members of the 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries continued to exceed their self-imposed production quotas. Some analysts said the Saudis were merely warning that overproduction would bring harmful economic consequences to everyone; others took it as a warning that the Saudis, OPEC's largest producer, would chastise fellow members as they have in the past by flooding the market and driving prices still lower. 
The oil market had long known that OPEC members were exceeding their quotas and selling increasing amounts of crude at discounts from posted prices. But it was not until the surpluses began swamping storage tanks here and in Europe that buyers began rejecting offers from OPEC exporters.
After the New York Mercantile Exchange closed, the American Petroleum Institute reported that the nation's stocks of crude oil rose for the week and were well above levels of a year earlier.
The spot May crude oil contract ranged between $18.55 and $17.59 during the frenetic trading session before closing below $18. The same contract fell 71 cents the day before and $1.13 last week.
Meanwhile, the spot contract for unleaded gasoline plunged further, losing 2.46 cents a gallon, to 58.43 cents. The spot May heating oil contract declined 0.67 cent a gallon, to 52.40 cents.
''We were all surprised by the selling momentum,'' said Joel Faber, who heads an oil trading company bearing his name. ''Most of us expected at least a modest technical rally after the long decline in crude prices.''
The selling of crude oil contracts spilled over into the gasoline market. One reason is that supplies of the West Texas Intermediate grade oil that is traded on the exchange are also more than ample.
Mr. Faber also noted that while heating oil prices declined at this time of year, the unusually mild winter prompted many refiners to switch to gasoline output weeks before they normally would. ''This situation has produced some tightness in heating oil supplies here and there,'' Mr. Faber said.
Broker calls for more cash margin added to the selling momentum, he added, ''and we can expect even more margin calls to go out after today's selloff.''
Peter C. Beutel, energy market analyst at Elders Futures Inc., the domestic trading arm of the big Australian financial house, said much of the selling pressure came from the breakdown of technical support levels. Most commodity investment funds depend on computer programs to provide buy or sell signals. Mr. Beutel said the selling had washed out the last technical support level of $17.78, ''and it has been replaced by $16.91, a level last seen on Feb. 1, 1989.''
Meanwhile, he continued, the overseas energy markets also weakened. In London, the price of the spot May contract for high-grade North Sea Brent blends fell a further 65 cents a barrel, to $15.95. Further discounts are being made for crude oil with high-sulfur and metallic contents.
Bradford H. Hughes, an energy specialist at Cargill Investor Services, noted that while the A.P.I. reported nation's crude oil stocks were up 8 million barrels and stood at 45 million barrels above levels a year earlier, refinery runs were off 1.8 percent in the latest week, because of seasonal switching from heating oil to gasoline.
''This factor and the seasonal upturn in gasoline demand may account for the 2.8-million-barrel drop in the nation's gasoline stocks in the latest week,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''Still, gasoline stocks are only down two million 42-gallon barrels from a year ago.''
The A.P.I. also reported that the nation's inventory of heating oil fell 2.5 million 42-gallon barrels for the week, but stocks were 4.5 million barrels above the level a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); GASOLINE (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SPOT MARKET (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J JOEL FABER (65%); BRADFORD H HUGHES (56%); 



274 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A Way to Hedge On 'Junk Bonds'?

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
ROBERT GORDON, president of Twenty-First Securities in New York, thinks he has found a way to permit those who own ''junk bonds'' to sleep better at night. His proposed sedative is a hedging strategy, a hybrid of stock and bond-futures trades, that he says will offset some of the risk of investing in the volatile, unrated debt issues.
Mr. Gordon is one of the better-known financial tinkerers on Wall Street, and his boutique firm carries out a variety of hedging and arbitrage strategies for major institutional investors. If his hedging theory passes muster on Wall Street, more institutional investors may be willing to put capital into the junk bond market, providing much-needed liquidity. 
But skeptics in the junk bond arena are taking a ''show me'' attitude about Mr. Gordon's somewhat vague assertion, which he will outline for institutional investors and money managers at an invitation-only conference on May 3 in New York.
''Sure, if you could hedge, you could take a bigger position in the market, but you can't, so it's academic,'' said one junk bond trader. ''You can only hedge apples with apples and oranges with oranges.''
But in Mr. Gordon's view, junk bonds are a sort of financial fruit salad. ''What we're doing is breaking a high-yield bond into its component parts - interest-rate risk and credit risk,'' he said.
Mr. Gordon declined to provide his specific hedging formula, which he developed in partnership with Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, investment managers in Los Angeles, until he has presented it to his clients. But he said it involved a ''blended'' use of Treasury bond futures contracts and other equity-hedging techniques. ''We think we can hedge the risk of owning about 60 percent of the junk bond universe,'' he said.
By coincidence, that percentage roughly corresponds to the portion of the $200 billion junk bond universe made up of debt issued by companies that also have common stock outstanding, suggesting that Mr. Gordon's ''blended hedge'' incorporates the common stock of junk bond issuers.
If so, that would rule out Mr. Gordon's technique for junk bond issuers with no common stock outstanding -about $80 billion worth of the market at the end of 1989. It also may not be useful for insurers and other regulated investors who may be barred by state rules from using common equity-hedging tools like short-selling, which is the sale of borrowed stock by an investor who expects to replace the shares with new ones purchased at a lower price.
Nevertheless, Mr. Gordon's tinkering is another sign that Wall Street is putting some mental and financial muscle into the task of getting the junk bond market back on its feet. Indeed, it is the second such signal this week. On Monday, Salomon Brothers announced that it had purchased Drexel Burnham Lambert's junk bond data base and software, beating out more than a dozen other bidders. In addition, the firm has hired at least one of the senior computer technicians who ran the data base at Drexel's junk bond office in Beverly Hills, Calif.
C. Daniel Tyree, managing director and head of Salomon's junk bond operation, said Salomon was eager to acquire the exclusive use of the Drexel data base because it ''complemented'' his firm's other recent commitments to the junk bond market. ''We have upgraded our staff tremendously,'' he said, noting that several junk bond experts from Drexel and other firms have been recruited. ''With this data base, we will have the complete mosaic: the people and the information.''
The informaton is, by all accounts, awesome. It includes the description, underlying financial data, research reports, prospectuses, yield calculations and pricing history of 3,000 securities. Mark E. Fields, a managing director and head of junk bond sales, said that roster includes 500 issues that were sold by Drexel through private placements, for which public data are almost nonexistent.
Armed with its new data base, Salomon expects to be able to ''be more aggressive'' in matching buyers and sellers in the junk bond market regardless of whether a new hedging technique emerges, Mr. Fields said. ''But looking at the market in general, perhaps 1 percent of the outstanding junk-bond market is in dealers' hands,'' he said. ''If there were a hedging mechanism, that would help dealers provide more liquidity and more capital in the secondary market. That percentage would go up. And that would help.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: SBW (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HOULIHAN LOKEY HOWARD & ZUKIN INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTY-FIRST SECURITIES CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); FUTURES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; GORDON, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



275 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Air Travel Gridlock Seen for Europe

BYLINE: By BURTON BOLLAG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, April 10

 BODY:
Air travel in Europe will come to a ''near standstill'' by the end of the decade if radical improvements are not made, a study released today predicts.
Traffic is growing so rapidly that congestion at airports and in air corridors will reach ''catastrophic'' proportions as early as 1995, says the study, commissioned by the International Air Transport Association, which represents 190 of the world's big airlines.
The report, calls for a ''once-for-all outlay of about $3.5 billion,'' beyond currently planned investments, to expand airports and increase air traffic control capacity to meet the demand for the next two decades.
The number of passengers for flights within Europe is expected to almost double to about 500 million in 2000 from 267 million in 1980 and to triple to about 740 million by 2010. 
 
Patchwork of Systems
But as important as investments, the study says, is the willingness of governments to set aside air space reserved for military flights, and to make the patchwork of national air control systems compatible.
Transport ministers from the 23 member countries of the European Civil Aviation Council are expected to agree to an air traffic integration plan that industry officials consider ''a major step forward'' at a meeting on April 24.
The plan calls for an eight-year period during which the different national air traffic control systems in Europe would adopt the same standards and computer software, allowing them to communicate with one another better and hand over control of flights with little effort.
Western Europe has about half the density of flights of the Northeast United States, yet the fact that each country keeps complete sovereignty over its air space makes coordination of flights much more difficult, industry officials say.
 
Big Political Problem
''An F.A.A. of Europe would be the best of all worlds,'' said Norman Jackson, senior director-technical of the association, referring to the United States Federal Aviation Administration. ''But it's a major political problem and could take a long time to come about.''
The study says the proportion of intra-European flights delayed by more than 15 minutes almost doubled between 1986 and 1989 to approximately 24 percent. This took place despite improvements made in coordinating national air traffic control systems. In the summer peak period, some charter flights have been delayed by 24 hours.
Industry officials, however, say safety records have actually been increasing as air controllers make planes wait on the ground instead of in the air.
The study, written by the research organization S.R.I. International of Menlo Park, Calif., says the cost of delays and inefficient routings to circumvent military airspace and other national restrictions amounts to about $5 billion each year. Those losses are expected to double to $10 billion by 2000 if strong remedies are not quickly applied.
 
Fares May Rise
Air travel can also become ''unaffordable to an increasing percentage of the European population,'' the study said, if losses associated with congestion prompt a rise in air fares.
''At least 10 major European airports'' will run out of space for airplanes that want to land there, if major new investments are not made to expand runways and terminal space, the study added. Among the most overcrowded are in Madrid, Frankfurt and London.
The study says that the proposed $3.5 billion additional investments called for would avoid more than that amount of losses caused by overcrowding. But it acknowledges that opposition to airport expansion has created a negative image problem for the industry.
For this reason the report calls on air transport association, which is based in Geneva and Montreal, to develop public education advertising campaigns to convince the European public that such investments make economic and enviornmental sense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (68%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SRI INTERNATIONAL (50%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (79%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (77%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 



276 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Shows Sharp Drop; Gold Prices Also Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined sharply yesterday against most major currencies in thin, seesaw trading as concerns about continued central-bank intervention dampened market sentiment.
Gold prices also fell. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $375 a troy ounce, $1 lower than late Monday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $375.50 an ounce, off 15 cents. 
Robert Ryan, corporate foreign exchange manager for the Bank of New York, said traders were reluctant to buy dollars for fear that major central banks would intervene to drive the dollar down again.
Several central banks, including the Federal Reserve, sold dollars in Europe and Asia to help stem the yen's decline on Monday. That action followed a weekend meeting in Paris in which the major industrialized nations, known as the Group of Seven, agreed to closely monitor developments in the yen.
The Japanese currency has been under pressure lately amid growing signs of a weakening Japanese economy and a sharp decline on the Tokyo stock market.
Also helping to weaken the dollar yesterday were reported comments from Helmut Haussmann, West Germany's Finance Minister, that he expects the mark to firm as a result of a planned economic and monetary unification of East and West Germany, currency dealers said.
Trading was described as thin yesterday because of the Passover holiday and in advance of the Easter holiday.
In Tokyo, where global trading begins, the dollar climbed 1.70 yen to a closing 158.15 yen yesterday. It was quoted at 158.60 yen in London, and at 157.60 yen in New York, down from 158.335 Monday.
The dollar was mixed against the British pound. Sterling sold in London for $1.6345, down from $1.6397, and for $1.64515 in New York, up from $1.63445 Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's quotes, included: 1.6750 West German marks, down from 1.6935; 1.4830 French francs, down from 1.4982; 5.6285 French francs, down from 5.6845; 1,230.16 Italian lire, down from 1,243.00, and 1.16925 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1616.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Monday, were: 1.6900 West German marks, down from 1.6923 marks; 1.4955 Swiss francs, down from 1.4960; 5.6750 French francs, down from 5.6805; 1.9030 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9043; 1,240.00 Italian lire, down from 1,242.00, and 1.1613 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1615.
Gold traded in London at a late bid price of $375.15 an ounce, down from $375.50 late Monday. Gold also fell in Zurich to $375.25 an ounce from $376.25. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold closed down $2.16 at $376.97 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); ZURICH (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (95%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EASTER SEASON (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PASSOVER (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 



277 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Cavazos Criticizes Hispanic Parents on Schooling

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, April 10

 BODY:
 But when asked at a news conference what solutions he would propose, Mr. Cavazos, a sixth-generation Texan who is of Mexican descent, leveled his criticism at Hispanic parents. Hispanic cultures long placed a high value on education, he said, but "somewhere along the line we lost that."
 
'We Start by Caring'
 He argued that neither economic difficulties nor the language barrier completely explained the problems of Hispanic students because other ethnic groups had overcome those obstacles.
"I think in part we Hispanics have not acknowledged that problem," he said. "We start by caring. I think that's been one of our problems in America today. We really have not cared that youngsters have dropped out of school. We don't care, either teachers, parents, business community, elected officials. 
"We must have a commitment from Hispanics, from Hispanic parents especially, that their children will be educated," he said. "That is the first vital step."
Several local school officials and community leaders who spoke at today's hearing took issue with Mr. Cavazos. And Elena Pell, the national director for program development for Aspira, an advocacy group for Hispanic students, said of Mr. Cavazos's remarks, "It doesn't match up with our experience in working with Hispanic parents that they've lost interest in their children's education."
 
'Society Is at Fault'
 Gloria G. Rodriguez, executive director of Avance, a parent-child education program here, said: "Hispanic parents know that education is the only way out of poverty for their children. He's wrong to say the families are at fault when society is at fault for not supporting families that are overwhelmed by economic problems."
Stanley S. Litow, deputy chancellor of the New York City schools, said it was "absurd to blame Hispanic parents for the high dropout rate, based on our experience."
"These youngsters require added services like teaching English as a second language and more bilingual programs," he said. "Often we can't provide these services because of a lack of trained teachers and lack of dollars. We're laying too much of the blame on these parents, who love their children as much as anyone else."
About 40 percent of all Hispanic students in the United States drop out before graduating from high school, and the Education Department says the rate has not improved over the past 10 years even though the dropout rates of other groups have been declining. Mr. Cavazos said this would become a major national problem in the 1990's, when Hispanic youths will account for almost one-quarter of the new members of the American labor force.
Liz Cuevas, a freshman at John F. Kennedy High School here, told the Presidenial panel: "The students have to drop out just to support their families by getting jobs. I don't think that is right, but you have to do what you have to do."
The 15-year-old student complained of a lack of concern by teachers and parents, but most of all she blamed the bleak economic prospects faced by Hispanic youths. Speaking of those who abandon school, she asked, "Why bother, if I'm not going to have a future, if my parents don't have a future, if I don't know anyone who has a future?"
 
Criticism of Administration
 Mr. Cavazos became the first Hispanic-American to head a Cabinet department when President Ronald Reagan nominated him to the education post in August 1988. Mr. Bush asked him to remain in the job, but he has largely been relegated to a minor role in the Cabinet, even on education matters.
For his part, Mr. Bush has been criticized by educators and many state governors who say he places great emphasis on improving the nation's educational performance but opposes increases in Federal spending for education.
Today, Mr. Cavazos told the forum that the President was "deeply concerned about the low educational achievement among Hispanics" and added, "He recognizes that we cannot reach our national goals without improving the education of our growing Hispanic population." This was the first in a series of public hearings by the Task Force on Hispanic Education, a group of officials selected by Mr. Bush in December from several Federal agencies. The Secretary said the panel would suggest strategies for improving the performance of Hispanic-Americans in school, including ways to involve more of them in Federal efforts like bilingual education and special programs for the poor.
 
No New Programs Likely
 He indicated that the panel was unlikely to recommend major new Federal programs. Instead, he said, the aim was "to discover how the Federal Government can contribute to innovative solutions developed at the grass-roots level."
Other speakers called for more spending on programs at almost every level of education, from parenthood classes for the mothers of preschool children to scholarships for college students.
While declaring that Mr. Bush was eager to remedy the problems of Hispanic students, Mr. Cavazos also emphasized the Administration's view that programs and financing must come from the state and local levels.
One exception is bilingual education programs that help Hispanic children rapidly become proficient in English. Unlike his predecessors under Mr. Reagan, Mr. Cavazos has strongly supported such programs. While Federal aid to bilingual education declined through the 1980's, the Bush Administration has proposed a 10.6 percent increase in spending on these programs for the 1991 fiscal year.
Mr. Cavazos today emphasized the Administration's view that the design of bilingual eduation programs should be a local concern and that the goal should be to help students learn English as quickly as possible.
The next hearing in the series will be in Boston on April 26, followed by Chicago on May 11, Miami on May 18 and Los Angeles on June 5.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Education Secretary Lauro F. Cavazos said Hispanic students' high dropout rate would become a problem when they enter the work force. (The New York Times/Craig Stafford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DROPOUTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); FAMILY (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CHILD POVERTY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: CAVAZOS, LAURO F (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 



278 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL OFFICIALS REPORT THE CENSUS LAGS SIGNIFICANTLY

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
With hundreds of thousands of census forms not delivered to the proper addresses and with millions of people not returning the completed forms, Federal officials said today that the 1990 count of the United States population is lagging significantly.
Congressional researchers estimated that in the end, as few as 60 percent of the forms may be returned to the Census Bureau. The bureau's director, Barbara Everitt Bryant, who notified Congress today of the sluggish rate of return, said in an interview that 55 percent of the forms had been returned and that the final return rate would be ''solidly in the mid-60's.''
Even that figure is below the bureau's original goal of a 70 percent return rate. A decline of each percentage point in the return rate means that 950,000 additional households must be visited in person by enumerators. 
 
Urgent Need Reinforced
Census officials have argued for months that they would make up for those who did not mail back the forms by dispatching census-takers to track them down, starting April 26. The officials brushed aside any speculation that so many people now needed to be counted by census-takers going door to door that the job was impossible.
But the Congressman who heads the House subcommittee that oversees the census, Thomas C. Sawyer, said today that he had discussed with Dr. Bryant the urgent need to reinforce the bureau's efforts. Representative Sawyer, an the Ohio Democrat, said more census-takers would have to be hired at an additional cost of $50 million to $150 million.
The budget provides for about 300,000 enumerators, a figure that would have to be increased by 25,000 to 75,000 to compensate for the lag in the mail returns, Congressional auditors said.
 
Bureau Beset With Criticism
''I am distressed - that's not too strong a word,'' said Mr. Sawyer, the chairman of the Census and Population Subcommittee of the House Committee on Post Office and Civil Service. ''It's fair to suggest that the integrity of the census could be in jeopardy if Congress doesn't work in concert with the bureau.''
The final count becomes the basis for Congressional and legislative reapportionment and for the annual distribution of at least $50 billion in Federal funds and millions of dollars more in state and local money.
The low return rate of census forms come to light as the Census Bureau has been beset with criticism and as reports abound about people who never received forms and who could not get through to the bureau's toll-free information number (800 999-1990) or who received no help when they did get through.
In some cases, entire neighborhoods or apartment buildings have received no forms. On occasion, even whole towns, like Ross, Calif., have received none.
Census officials said that some of the overall problem lay with the Postal Service's failure to deliver some forms and with the failure of independent contractors to correctly address others.
But the officials, as well as independent monitors, said a big part of the problem, and a potentially more difficult one to grapple with, is that people are simply not mailing in their census forms.
Response rates as of today were as low as 34 percent in central Brooklyn, 43 percent on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, 41 percent in Boston's high-rent Beacon Hill neighborhood and 49 percent in Hollywood, Calif.
Regional and local Census Bureau officials said that low rates of return cut across the socio-economic lines. That surprised them because they had thought residents of well-to-do neighborhoods would mail back their forms at higher rates than residents of poor or working-class neighborhoods.
''The thing that would help us most is if everyone who hasn't returned a questionnaire got them in fast,'' Dr. Bryant said.
 
Some Cities Responding Well
In some cities, the census count is going well. In Orlando, Fla., 59 percent of the census forms were being returned, and the district office manager, Mary Shepherd, said she expected no problem in reaching the 70 percent goal.
There were also optimistic reports from San Diego, and Dr. Bryant said Cleveland was well ahead of the national rate on the returns.
It is not clear why Americans are not returning the forms. Although regional census officials believe the return rate to be lower than a decades ago and believe the census to be more troubled than earlier efforts, they cannot cite figures. The bureau says it did not keep figures for midway points in past census counts, only for final tallies.
The final count of forms that have been mailed back will begin in about 10 days, and not until it is complete will the bureau be able to match this year's performance with those of previous decades.
Officials of both the Census Bureau and Congress held out hope that more forms than currently expected would come in.
 
A Test in 1988
But in 1988, during a dry-run test of the census in St. Louis, about 88 percent of all the forms eventually returned had been returned at this stage of the census process, said William Hunt, a Congressional auditor.
Dr. Bryant said an off-year test was a bad comparison because there is far less publicity about the census in an off year and no sense of what she called ''a national event.''
Some officials privately raised the possibility that, if it becomes increasingly difficult to get census returns, the bureau may have to push back its constitutionally mandated Dec. 31 deadline for providing national totals. The total count is scheduled to go to President Bush on that day, while the state-by-state counts used for reapportionment are to scheduled be out by April 1, 1991.
 
Difficulty in Recruiting
Both Representative Sawyer and Mr. Hunt expressed concern about whether enough census-takers could be recruited, particularly in some of the white-collar areas, like Boston's Beacon Hill and Manhattan's Upper West Side.
''The underreturn seems to be occurring in the same areas where they are experiencing recruitment problems,'' Mr. Sawyer said today. In New York City, at a news conference at City Hall, Hulburt James, coordinator of the city's census outreach efforts, said that city officials had been distressed that what they estimate as close to 10 percent of the households in the city have not yet received census forms. He said they were also concerned that the Census Bureau is planning to close its assistance centers for citizens on April 15, instead of keeping them open longer.
 
Dinkins Upset With Raids
Mayor David N. Dinkins was particularly upset that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had recently conducted raids in Washington Heights, where many Dominican and other Latin American immigrants live, in violation of what he thought was an understanding that such raids would not be conducted during the census, since the might inhibit participation.
Sheila H. Grimm, the regional director of the census for the New York City area, said that as of Tuesday morning, its rate for forms logged in so far was 46.2 percent.
''That rate is basically a very volatile, changing rate,'' she said. ''There is a huge backlog of forms to be checked in and we are still hand-delivering others.''
She said the preliminary figures did not mean the bureau had missed huge swaths of the city, but that it was still working and would continue hand-delivering forms through April 20. At the end of the month, she said, enumerators would go out in person to addresses that had not responded.
In Brooklyn today, a coalition of big cities, states and groups like the N.A.A.C.P. went into Federal District Court seeking to force the Commerce Department to change its guidelines for adjusting the census to make sure minorities and the poor are accurately counted.
A primary issue is over a follow-up survey the department agreed to undertake after the census to compensate for any undercounting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Americans have been slow to be counted. Researchers expect that only 60 percent of the mailed forms will be returned. In the Towson, Md., census office, a worker stacked formes that had been sent in. (The New York Times/Marty Katz) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (52%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FINANCES; CENSUS CENSUS (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REDISTRICTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; BRYANT, BARBARA EVERITT (DIR); SAWYER, THOMAS C (REPR) THOMAS C SAWYER (68%); 



279 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 29 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Tuesday about the financial difficulties of the Dance Theater of Harlem misstated New York State's unemployment benefits.
They are $245 a week, not a month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM

SUBJECT: DANCING; FINANCES DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (83%); 



280 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Omens of Intolerance Among Cairo's Muslims

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 6

 BODY:
At dusk the streets are empty and the traffic dies down and a calm settles on this most rambunctious of cities, for this is Ramadan, the Muslim month of daytime fasting that represents one of Islam's sacred duties.
As night falls, and a single cannon shot from the Citadel overlooking the city signals the end of the day's restraint, millions of Egyptians settle to their first meal since before dawn, a celebration whose widespread observance shows how deeply Islam is ingrained in the souls of most Cairenes.
Yet, this year, the month of daytime famine and night-time feast has coincided with omens of intolerance among some Muslims. They are intolerant not only of dissident voices within Islam, but also of the nation's Coptic Christian minority of five million to eight million people. 
The authorities recently jailed an Egyptian author labeled by one magazine ''Egypt's Salman Rushdie'' - a comparison to the British author whose novel ''The Satanic Verses'' drew a death sentence from Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran.
The Egyptian author, identified in Cairo newspaper reports as Allaa Hamed, had, according to Islamic scholars, ''lampooned the Prophet, assaulted Islam and claimed that the Koran was not inspired by God'' with a work called ''The Vacuum in a Man's Mind.''
Most issues of the book were seized when the author, who is a Muslim, was arrested. But, according to Egyptians who have read parts of it, it argues that ''religion is a curse nowadays'' and that paradise is a ''hallucination.''
The treatise has stirred a familiar debate among Cairo's intellectuals about the limits of freedom in this society. ''Each human freedom has its limit and that is not to hurt peoples' feelings or religions,'' said Tharwat Abaza, an author who is deputy chairman of a Government advisory body called the Shura Council.
As the authorities and others consider the power and pull of faith in this land of 55 million - the most populous in the Arab world and a central participant in United States regional diplomacy - their concerns focus on the wider issue of whether economic deprivation and other forces are feeding religious passions that threaten the secular fabric of the nation.
Last month, a wave of anti-Christian attacks by a small Islamic organization called Islamic Groups, left five churches in the upper Egyptian province of Minya destroyed or damaged.
Members of the group, according to Egypt's Organization for Human Rights in a recent report on the clashes, had also attacked Christian-owned charities, cars, pharmacies, stores, factories and warehouses.
''These events constitute a new wave of escalation of religious-communal hostility, which has its fairly recent origins in the early 1970's and which, during the events of last month, developed into acts of wholesale religious violence,'' the report said.
The reference to the 1970's was significant because it conjured memories of the way President Anwar el-Sadat's policies unleashed religious passions that led to communal strife and, ultimately, to his assassination by Islamic fundamentalists in 1981.
The force of religion represents a profound influence in a region scarred by Lebanon's particularly gruesome example of the destruction of a frail nation by war among religious groups. In some of those Arab countries that have experimented to various degrees in political liberalization - Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria and Jordan - Muslim political groups have become established as the protagonists of an alternative society based on Islamic law, also called the Sharia.
The leaflets urged all Muslims ''to defend their 'honor unto death' against those whom they called the Crusaders,'' the report said. The preachers at two mosques in the towns on Minya and Abu Gurgas took up the call in Friday prayers in early March, the report said, inspiring members of the Islamic Groups to lead ''large numbers of people and schoolchildren on a rampage of destruction, looting and burning of churches, Christian associations and Christian-owned pharmacies, hospitals, medical clinics, shops and cars.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); 

COMPANY: CITADEL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT

SUBJECT: ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COPTIC CHURCHES RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WRITERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RAMADAN (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); POLITICS (69%); ARRESTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN SALMAN AHMED RUSHDIE (56%); AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (55%); 



281 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
Learning From Japan

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
On the high-definition television screen in Sony's Shinagawa studio, a wine glass shimmers with spectacular clarity. In Fanuc's canary yellow plant at the foot of Mount Fuji, an aisle of new robot arms twist and turn in the disjointed calisthenics of their test program. In Nissan's vast automated warehouse at Oppama, a computer sends Maximas and Infinitis to a waiting cargo ship.
These machines are the high-level product of a highly functional society. As the visitor to Tokyo immediately notices, its crowds are orderly and well dressed, its streets and subways scrupulously clean, and people go about their business with no apparent fear of crime. 
Objective measures confirm the impression that Japan works. Economic output per person is already the world's highest, though purchasing power is somewhat less. People in Japan enjoy a longer life expectancy than in any other country. And whatever it is that I.Q. tests measure, Japanese score the highest, maybe because of their rigorous and test-ridden schooling.
Mostly with becoming reserve, Americans are celebrating the triumph of their political and economic values over those of the Eastern bloc. Japan, it is widely assumed, is not a rival system but merely an Asian version of Western free market economies. The assumption bears closer scrutiny. The persistent trade crisis between Japan and the United States, probably postponed by Japan's promises last week to open up its markets, strongly suggests a society that marches to different rules.
The order and efficiency of Japanese life flow from strong pressures to conform. Japanese children cram constantly for entry to select schools. By the time they graduate from high school, they have spent four years longer in the classroom than American children. Japanese salarymen enjoy lifetime employment, but since job-switching is almost impossible they must obey the company code. Japanese citizens have few avenues of protest. In the courts, prosecutors win 99 percent of their cases. In politics, a single party has held power for 40 years. A reporters' club system clogs the free flow of news. The result: a highly educated and disciplined work force. Japan also differs notably from Western democracies in its degree of central direction. Its civil servants are a widely respected elite.
They tend to retire early and join the boards of corporations they dealt with when in government. With the aid of this network, civil service decisions rest on excellent information and well-formed consensus. The role of politicians in Japan is mostly to mediate disputes between rival ministries and industries.
As a form of government, Japan's system lacks transparency and public accountability. But its successes are undeniable. Officials have carefully shaped and tended movement into the industries they consider desirable, notably those with high technology and high added value. They have shown superb skill at responding to crises, like the oil shock of 1973. They managed the yen's sharp rise against the dollar with such efficiency that exports to the United States hardly budged. The politicians may reign, but the mandarins in the government quarter of Kasumigaseki allow little political interference in their disinterested management of affairs.
Japanese officials usually bridle at the proposition that their system differs from the West's. But it is no compliment to their skills to suppose Japan is an imitation of America. Its society is more disciplined and directed. Japan's booming prosperity during the 1980's may be suffering some financial setback. But since Japan now invests twice as much per person as America, its superior growth is all but assured for years.
Seeing the vitality in the Ginza's thronged streets, or all the consumer gadgets in the electronics stores in Akihabara, it's easy to think that Japan's distinctive society may hold lessons for others. Technology, capital investment, education - Japan has adapted its society to wield these tools of Western progress with remarkable success.
Western societies are hardly likely to adopt mandarin rule or to compel their citizens to conform, work and save. But maybe there are other ways to secure a highly educated and flexible work force, a government that creates conditions for industry to thrive and a society largely free of hard drugs and street crime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (73%); ROBOTICS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); TRADE DISPUTES (65%); EARLY RETIREMENT (62%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (61%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (57%); 

PERSON: WADE, NICHOLAS



282 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Air War With Castro Costs U.S. Good Will

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Further on ''Losing an Air War With Castro,'' your March 24 editorial discussing technical problems and political infighting at TV Marti, which beams United States-made television programs to Cuba (and which is overseen by the U.S. Information Agency):
As one totally bilingual in English and Spanish, who was in Havana as keynote speaker at a United Nations workshop on space communications for development, I would like to share impressions I gleaned from workshop participants about the test of TV Marti, which began March 27, the second day of our meeting.
The workshop included some 70 representatives from organizations in Mexico, the Caribbean, Central and South America, Italy, France, Canada and the Soviet Union. Also attending were representatives of Intelsat, Intersputnik, Inmarsat, Hispasat, Caricom, the International Telecommunication Union, the United Nations Disaster Relief Organization and the sponsoring agency, the United Nations Outer Space Affairs Division. All are concerned with communications and development. 
Informal discussions on the TV Marti test made it evident that no one of this group of high-level and highly skilled professionals could understand why this action is being taken now when, if anything is needed in a world in ferment, it is nonprovocation. My personal concern is for the good will the United States has lost at a time when we are using telecommunications to promote greater international understanding and better relations. In this light, TV Marti seems totally inappropriate.
Aside from the issue of sovereign rights, there are questions of international law. We understand the International Telecommunication Union has called a special meeting of the International Frequency Registration Board to examine the regulations to determine if TV Marti is in violation.
It is a sad commentary on the way the United States is being viewed in Central and South America and elsewhere that the prevailing sentiment in any battle of the frequencies would most likely be opposed to the United States position.
My telecommunications and development colleagues at the United Nations workshop asked me, as the only United States citizen present, to try and explain what is happening and why. I could not give them a good response. It is my hope that the Government will undertake to explain its TV Marti position.
If no reasonable explanation is forthcoming, I would predict that the United States is in for some rocky rides at coming international telecommunications conferences that deal with the allocation and use of frequencies in the broadcasting spectrum.
 
LOUIS A. BRANSFORD
President, Public Service
Satellite Consortium
 Washington, March 29, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: I (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FRANCE (56%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); 

COMPANY: INTELSAT SA (57%); TV MARTI (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (58%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (58%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (56%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (56%); INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR OUTER SPACE AFFAIRS (56%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (56%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TV MARTI

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TELEVISION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (88%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DISASTER RELIEF (53%); 



283 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Sadly, a Far Cry From the City He Helped Save

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Felix G. Rohatyn, the investment banker, was briefing young executives on Tuesday about New York City's future when one asked him to measure conditions today against 15 years ago, when Mr. Rohatyn helped rescue the city from bankruptcy.
Bad timing. At 11 o'clock the night before, as Mr. Rohatyn and his wife, Elizabeth, were walking four blocks home from a seder given by Dr. Paul Marks, president of the Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, they passed an elderly couple asleep on the sidewalk, their legs protruding into Madison Avenue.
The Rohatyns were still discussing the couple's plight and the consequences of homelessness when, as they turned onto East 62d Street, a young man snatched Mrs. Rohatyn's Hermes leather purse and sprinted off. 
''When she screamed, I thought he had stabbed her,'' Mr. Rohatyn said.
Asked the next day what had changed in 15 years, Mr. Rohatyn said the incidents on Monday night crystalized one contrast.
''There is a qualitative difference today, both in terms of what you see and what you feel, and what you feel is the constant threat of something that's going to happen to you,'' Mr. Rohatyn said. ''It is not civilized life to consider yourself lucky when you've been mugged but haven't been killed.''
As active volunteers and philanthropists, the Rohatyns are no strangers to poverty, homelessness and scarce municipal resources. As chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, Mr. Rohatyn has been a persistent fiscal Cassandra, proved correct by the latest budget crisis. But in contrast with 1975, he said, social and racial pressures threaten the city's survival.
Mrs. Rohatyn said that when she recounted the purse-snatching to friends, she purposely did not mention the thief's race. ''Every single person came back and said, 'Was it a black kid?' '' she said. It was. Mr. Rohatyn said: ''Even though I believe David Dinkins's election has done much to defuse the pressures, there is still a potential problem if things were to get much worse again, and they will.
We are witnessing these kinds of problems when the economy of the city is in only the first stages of a downturn. This anti-social behavior didn't start when the Mayor first discovered there was a deficit.''
Moreover, crime statistics are understated. The Monday night purse-snatching was the third time Mrs. Rohatyn had been robbed in the last few years, none of the incidents being reported to the police. The first time, a bicyclist ripped a gold chain off her neck on Madison Avenue; then someone stole the wallet from her handbag on Fifth Avenue.
''I screamed,'' Mrs. Rohatyn recalled. ''Nobody did anything.''
What she did was alter her own behavior. Freedom, as the song says, is another word for nothing left to lose. The Hermes purse contained only a comb, a plastic compact and a house key.
She also sounded the alarm. ''I was just talking to Barbara Walters,'' Mrs. Rohatyn said. ''She often walks over to Mortimer's. She said, 'I'm not going to do that any more.' I said to my daughter, who's going to dinner two blocks from her apartment, 'Get the doorman to take you there, and the butler who serves dinner to take you home.' And she's 36. I talked to Anne Scarborough. She said she's terrified.''
Nowadays, Mr. Rohatyn said, ''there is no part of the city where the quality of life is acceptable.'' Technology, meanwhile, has made it easier for terrified people to leave town.
''We can move half our office either across the river or to Denver,'' he said. ''I can go live on the outskirts of Phoenix. Maybe I can't do as much business there and enjoy life as much, but it is feasible.''
The Rohatyns, though, are not moving, they said. Nor do they wish to be dismissed as illiberal or as whiners - ''as some rich white person over-reacting, with cab drivers being shot and people in the black community being killed and maimed every day,'' Mr. Rohatyn said.
Rather, he said, he hopes the Mayor and the Governor demonstrate the political will to join community leaders in confronting challenges that cannot be wished away as officials reflexively reduce budgets. Mr. Rohatyn again suggested a municipal wage freeze, a smaller work force and better management. In return, he said, ''people in my world would accept significantly higher taxes'' in the spirit of shared sacrifice that prevailed in 1975.
The encouraging side of what happened on Monday night, he said, was the response of waiters, who, alerted by Mrs. Rohatyn's screams, dashed out of Arcadia to join other passersby in pursuing the purse-snatcher.
''God,'' Mr. Rohatyn said one waiter told him, ''how can they do this to you? You saved the city.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); ROBBERY (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); TRENDS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MAYORS (72%); BUDGETS (69%); PHILANTHROPY (64%); CRIME STATISTICS (60%); STATISTICS (60%); CANCER (56%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G; ROBERTS, SAM FELIX G ROHATYN (98%); 



284 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Development Brings Discord to Flushing

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
From the busy corner of Northern Boulevard and Union Street in Flushing, Queens, signs of the distant past, vibrant present and uncertain future of this changing polyglot area can be seen in a glance.
Down Northern Boulevard, the wood-shingled Friends Meeting House, a 17th-century Quaker landmark, recalls some of the area's earliest European settlers.
Along Union Street, a row of stores and offices that could be out of an Asian streetscape vividly indicates Flushing's latest arrivals with a profusion of signs in Korean, Chinese and Japanese.
Farther down Union Street, a break in the building line reveals a large parking lot where New York City and a major private developer have proposed a big apartment, office and retail complex - a plan that is vehemently opposed by many residents who insist that there has already been too much development in the area.
 
A Dynamic Retail District
In this sprawling, middle-class slice of northern Queens, where big-city bustle alternates with stretches of suburban-like tranquillity, Flushing's once-declining ''downtown'' commercial section has been rejuvenated in recent years - chiefly by the area's many Asian newcomers - into one of the city's most dynamic retail districts. Several small office buildings and various apartment buildings have also been completed downtown in the last few years. A hotel and other commercial projects are under construction. 
But while proponents of the growth hail it, many other residents deplore the pace and direction of the changes. They say disorderly growth has turned downtown Flushing into a hectic Manhattan-like zone that is harming the quality of local life.
''I definitely think Flushing is at some kind of crossroads right now,'' said Regina Colletta, district manager of Queens Community Board 7, whose jurisdiction covers the heart of Flushing. ''We have a lot of civic groups here, all working for what they think is best for the community.''
But the debate involves more than just Flushing. It also raises a question with citywide implications: How can a fiscally troubled city's need for the tax revenues that accompany redevelopment be reconciled with widespread neighborhood feelings that the changes are for the worse.
The clashing perspectives in Flushing are reflected in the views of two residents, Eileen Loh, a 55-year-old fashion designer turned real-estate developer, and Pam Keating, 48, a freelance illustrator.
''Ten years ago Flushing went down,'' Mrs. Loh said of the decline of Flushing's downtown area in the 1970's. At the time, vacancy rates were growing along Main Street and on Roosevelt Avenue, two of the area's main thoroughfares.
''If we don't have more building, we'll go back to 10 years ago,'' she said. ''We have to face the fact that the structure is changing.'' As she spoke, Mrs. Loh, who arrived in the United States from Taiwan in the 1960's, stood amid the concrete shells of a mall that she and her husband, Henry, are building on 39th Avenue between Prince Street and College Point Boulevard on the fringe of the downtown district.
 
'It's Going Very Vertical'
The Lohs' mall will include nearly 50 stores and restaurants and an outdoor plaza that Mrs. Loh envisions as a site for Asian cultural events. The couple have nearly completed a second, smaller complex of stores and offices across the street.
A block away on 39th Avenue, more construction equipment roars as another developer puts up a 14-story hotel. Two other commercial buildings are rising on Main Street and on Farrington Street.
A mile away, in her clapboard, brick and stucco house on 157th Street near Northern Boulevard, Ms. Keating takes a dim view of this activity.
''Our downtown for a long time was a small-town shopping area,'' she said. ''Buildings used to be three stories, now they're 10, 12. It's going very vertical very suddenly. The whole quality of the place has changed.''
But it is more than just a matter of style and esthetics, she said. ''The infrastructure was not designed for it,'' she said. ''There's no place for anyone to park who would go shopping there. The congestion is impossible. The crowds are oppressive.''
 
The Chirping of Birds
Ms. Keating, a lifetime Flushing resident, is vice president of the Off-Broadway Homeowners Association, comprising 22 families in her vicinity, a suburban-flavored enclave that typifies many parts of Flushing.
In these areas, people live in detached private homes on quiet streets, where the chirping of birds is the most conspicuous sound on a bright spring afternoon. The blare and bustle of downtown seems a world away, as do the apartment-building clusters on stretches of Flushing thoroughfares like Kissena Boulevard and Franklin Avenue.
Overall, Flushing is generally defined as the nine-square-mile area from the Van Wyck Expressway east to Francis Lewis Boulevard and from 25th Avenue south to Union Turnpike.
More than 200,000 people live in the Flushing area. The Asian population -mostly Chinese and Korean but with a conspicuous contingent of Indians -has grown in the last 15 years to between 60,000 and 80,000, with each of these groups having its own concentration of shops and services downtown. The rest of the population is predominantly white.
 
A Moratorium Is Sought
Ms. Keating said that while many local people ''have been upset about overdevelopment in Flushing for years,'' the last straw was the Flushing Center project, a plan by the city and a private development team to build a $180 million apartment and commercial complex on the municipal parking lot at Union Street and 37th Avenue.
The proposal calls for two 16-story towers and a row of town houses with a total of almost 400 condominium apartments; a six-story office building, and a mall with more than 70 stores and a 10-screen movie complex. Many of the area's civic and business groups have vigorously objected to the plan, and the city and the developers - whose managing partner is the prominent builder William Zeckendorf Jr. - are now considering how it might be scaled back to meet the objections, said the community-relations representive for the developers, Raquel Ramati.
Lee Silberstein, a spokesman for the city's Public Development Corporation, which had sought proposals from developers for the city-owned site, similarly promised that his agency would ''work with the community'' in Flushing, whose downtown, he said, produced more retail income - about $250 million a year - than any other retail district in Queens.
But referring to the growing city budget gap, Mr. Silberstein said, ''In this tough fiscal time, the city should be generating more income from such a site than a parking lot provides.''
Such arguments do not convince the recently formed Coalition for a Planned Flushing, made up of more than 30 local civic, church and business goups. In fact, said City Councilwoman Julia Harrison, a Democrat who represents the area and is a leader of the coalition, pressing ahead with even a scaled-back project at this time would be unacceptable.
''We're asking for a moratorium on new construction in downtown Flushing until there is a master plan,'' she said. ''What's happening now is that helter-skelter buildings are going up. Between pedestrian and vehicular traffic and bus terminals it's gridlocked.''
 
A Landmark Theater
Another disputed site is the R.K.O. Keith's, on Northern Boulevard and Main Street, a surviving example of the palatial 1920's movie theater that is now closed. Its elaborate ticket lobby and grand foyer have been declared city landmarks. While its owner, Thomas Huang, a major Flushing developer, has been seeking to build a shopping complex in the nonlandmarked portion, others in the area are demanding that the entire theater be restored.
Some Asians in Flushing say that, given the role of Asian developers and merchants in carrying out most of the downtown changes, they detect an ethnic bias among some of the critics. ''I think it's always below the surface but quite clear,'' said Wellington Chen, 38, an architect and Community Board 7 member who came from Hong Kong in 1970. ''But I think it's a small minority that wants us out, not the majority.''
Mrs. Harrison vehemently denied that anti-Asian feelings were a factor in her coalition. She acknowledged that none of the area's Asian civic groups were in it, but said, ''They've never bothered to affiliate or come.''
For his part, Mr. Chen urged a more amicable discourse over Flushing's future. ''Rather than criticize or indict each other, I hope we can work together,'' he said. ''I don't think this type of squabbling is conducive to a healthy relationship.''

GRAPHIC: photos: ''If we don't have more building, we'll go back to 10 years ago,'' said Eileen Loh, a real-estate developer. Mrs. Loh stood in front of a mall that she and her husband are building on 39th Avenue in Flushing, Queens.; ''There's no place for anyone to park who would go shopping there. The congestion is impossible. The crowds are oppressive,'' said Pam Keating, who is oppposed to expansion in Flushing. (The New York Times/Vic DeLucia) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS COMMUNITY BOARD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; FLUSHING (NYC); QUEENS (NYC)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (88%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITIES (74%); TRENDS (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P EILEEN LOH (73%); PAM KEATING (65%); 



285 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: N.J. Transit Proposes Raising Fares

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 11

 BODY:
N.J. Transit today proposed raising rail fares by 10.9 percent and bus fares by 9.9 percent for transit riders in northern New Jersey, where most of the system's 291,600 daily commuters live.
If the increases are approved after four public hearings next month, it would be the third consecutive year that mass transit fares in New Jersey have gone up.
Facing a $47.8 million budget deficit in the coming fiscal year, the agency's board of directors today also proposed eliminating eight bus routes and six peak-hour trains, cutting 200 employees and making other economies.
Several board members and agency executives said they found such cuts distressing. They said thousands of riders would be driven away by inferior service, much as they were in the 1960's and 70's when bankrupt bus and rail lines, which were predecessors of N.J. Transit, deferred regular maintenance and reduced service. 
 
No Rise in Subsidy
''We're moving in a way that clearly over time means we will deliver less attractive service and less reliable service,'' said George Warrington, chief operating officer of N.J. Transit.
If the fare increases take effect on July 1, bus and rail commuters would be among the first residents in New Jersey to feel the harshness in the state's budget for the next fiscal year. The state's subsidy to N.J. Transit would remain unchanged from this year at $218.5 million, even though revenues from ridership declined while labor and insurance costs increased.
Gov. Jim Florio has offered no additional help, saying commuters may just have to pay more. ''I would expect the transit commissioners to be able to justify to me and to the transit riders of New Jersey any request for fare hikes,'' he said in a statement.
Unlike the last two years, when fare increases were spread across all 154 bus routes and 12 train lines operated by N.J. Transit, as well as 44 private carrier bus routes that the agency subsidizes, this year's increases are restricted to the area of the state north of Trenton.
N.J. Transit officials said the 31,000 bus riders in southern New Jersey (there is no rail service there except the new line to Atlantic City) are being protected because last year's 12.5 percent increases drove away so many passengers that revenue fell by 2 percent during the first six months of this fiscal year from the same period of the previous year.
 
Estimates of Losses
''I take that to be a precursor to what will happen in northern New Jersey next year if these new increases are approved,'' said Eva Lerner-Lam of Tenafly, a public member of the N.J. Transit board. Ms. Lerner-Lam voted against today's proposal, as did one other member of the seven-member board, Prentis C. Nolan 3d of Ridgewood.
Certain long-distance bus routes in northern New Jersey will also be exempt from the increase.
N.J. Transit officials say they expect that raising fares will drive away an additional 8,800 daily bus and rail riders. Eliminating the targeted bus and rail lines would cause the system to lose another 600 riders, the officials estimate.
After several years of ridership gains through the mid-80's, N.J. Transit has been hard hit lately. A slowdown in the economy has substantially cut into the number of passengers, officials said, and the consecutive fare increases over the last two years also hurt. Before last year's fare rise, there were 301,400 daily riders. The current economic slowdown is expected to reduce riders further, and the latest proposals, if they are adopted, could drop ridership to 277,900.
But Ms. Lerner-Lam said she thought that estimate was optimistic, and the representatives of commuter advocacy groups warned that the current proposal could hurt the system far more than predicted.
 
'More Hikes and Cuts?'
A member of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, William R. Wright of Cranford, said so many riders could be lost with the new increases and service cuts that, as happened on southern New Jersey bus lines last year, N.J. Transit would gain no additional revenue.
''What then?'' Mr. Wright said. ''More hikes and cuts? An accelerated downward spiral until this board finds itself directly responsible for the total collapse of public transit in New Jersey?''
A few transit adovcates urged the board to run the trains and buses until the money runs out and then force the state to find a stable source of funds, claiming that such brinkmanship worked recently in Buffalo, where the transit system was shut down for two days. Board members rejected the idea.
The trains planned for elimination are on the North Jersey Coast, Raritan Valley and Morris and Essex branches. N.J. Transit officials say alternative service is available. Each of the eight bus routes that would stop running now carries fewer than 100 passengers daily, officials said.
In other cuts, more than 200 of N.J. Transit's 8,600 workers would be let go, merit increases would be frozen for six months and employee training would be curtailed. Vehicle-cleaning schedules will be lengthened so that buses are thoroughly washed every other day instead of every day, and trains every three months instead of every two months.

GRAPHIC: chart: cost of commuting from N.J. to N.Y. per month from '82 to '90 (Source: N.J. Transit)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NJ TRANSIT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: NJ TRANSIT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; BUSES; COMMUTING; PASSENGER SERVICES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



286 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Political Idealists Trying to Hold Back the Night

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 11

 BODY:
Waldemar Hille joined the Communist Party 48 years ago believing that the movement would create a more compassionate and humane America.
Today, as Communism falters in Europe, the 82-year-old Mr. Hille is fighting to preserve ''an important people's institution,'' a retirement home for political activists.
''We're not just wallowing in resignation here,'' said Mr. Hille, a pianist who is one of nine residents of the home, Sunset Hall in downtown Los Angeles. ''We're fighting for our rights.'' Other residents said their building offered them a special environment of humanistic intellectualism. 
Sunset Hall was founded in 1924 as a retirement home for ''religious liberals'' by the First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles, which was a center of social and political activity at the time. Now the home is threatened by lack of money and dwindling occupancy, and a developer wants to buy it for $26 million and turn it into an apartment house.
Sunset Hall is operated independently from the church, relying on monthly fees of $900 to about $1,400 from its residents, by the income from an endowment, and donations from supporters.
 
Death and Sagging Endowment
The endowment has dropped sharply, and several residents have died or moved. The home's directors announced in February that they planned to close the 36-room building. But there were so many protests from the residents that 10 of the 12 directors and the home's administrator resigned.
The residents are still active politically. They canvassed their neighborhood for the Rev. Jesse Jackson in his Presidential bid in 1984, and they picketed with striking Los Angeles teachers last year. They also persuaded a Superior Court judge to issue a temporary restraining order forbidding the sale or closing of Sunset Hall.
A new board of directors has not yet announced how it will raise the money for Sunset Hall to survive, but there might be a a benefit banquet and a telephone campaign to solicit donations.
Sadie Tomkin, 82, is an old Communist and former manager of ''People's World,'' a Communist newspaper. ''I am very happy that I'm living in a place where I'm free to participate in social issues of the day,'' she said. ''That's the way myself and my husband and most of our friends always lived, identifying with the community issues. We want to keep helping things move ahead, to attain a better life for the working people.''
 
F.B.I., Blacklists, McCarthy
Mrs. Tomkin says she has no regrets about the life she led, despite the questioning and surveillance she says she endured in the 1950's from agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and despite the job loss her husband, a machinist, went through after the House Un-American Activities Committee identified him as a Communist.
Mr. Hille, a pianist who worked with the singers Paul Robeson and Pete Seeger (and was blacklisted along with them in the McCarthy era), now considers himself a ''humanist'' more than a Communist. But he remains critical of the American system.
''Organized capitalism is an evil thing in itself,'' he said in an interview in a shady courtyard of the Spanish-style residence home. ''It's profits versus people.'' He feels the changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union are good ''if they reflect the will of the people.'' He is sure his hero, Lenin, would have approved.
Mr. Hille, says he believes the situation in which the Sunset Hall residents find themselves reflects a growing social problem in this country. Last year, as the home's financial situation began to totter, it hired Thomas E. Brandlin as administrator. He tried, but wound up resigning this year.
''Basically, the place is broke,'' said Mr. Brandlin. ''The hall has operated at a deficit for 21 of the last 23 years and recently was losing up to $25,000 a month.'' Economic realities led the board to decide to close the place, and he concurred, he said.
 
Shadow of the Nursing Home
Retirement homes offering the kind of semi-independent living that Sunset Hall offers have high vacancy rates, Mr. Brandlin said, because most older people want to stay on their own as long as possible - until they cannot care for themselves at all and go to the nursing home.
''I was not out to get anyone,'' said Mr. Brandlin, telling why he recommended that the board close the place. ''We were just at the end of our money.'' He said the deficit this year, $95,000, was the worst ever.
The home's residents say bigger questions of social justice are involved. ''The first thing a society, any kind of society, should have on its agenda is to take care of its children, and then of the elderly,'' said Mrs. Tomkin. ''That's the way a decent society anywhere works. But in this country, we're just left high and dry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNSET HALL (LOS ANGELES)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (83%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); RELIGION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (56%); 



287 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Helio Smidt, Leader Of Varig, the Airline Of Brazil, Dies at 64

 BODY:
Helio Smidt, the president of Varig Brazilian Airlines, died of cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Rio de Janeiro. 
Mr. Smidt, who was of German extraction, joined Varig, now Latin America's largest airline, at the age of 19 as an office clerk in Porto Alegre, Brazil, where the line was founded in 1927.
He was named regional director for Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo in 1957 and three years later was appointed director of administration and control. He was elected president of the employee-owned airline in 1980 and guided it through some difficult times.
Varig's 28,500 employees own 86 percent of the voting stock of the company through a foundation created in 1945 by stockholders, who relinquished their shares of the company to the foundation.
In 1988, while other airlines in South America were sinking in debt or struggling because of inflation, Mr. Smidt had Varig opening new routes, and adding three Boeing 747's to its fleet of 84 airplanes.
He was also president of the Varig Group, a holding company with 25 subsidiaries and was named Brazil's Man of the Year in 1987.
He is survived by his wife, Norma; a daughter, Eliana Pinto of Sao Paulo, and a grandson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (96%); GOL (NYSE) (96%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (96%); BOEING CO (55%); VARIG GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: VARIG AIRLINES

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AIRLINES (91%); DEATHS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); AIR SERVICE (88%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (74%); COMMON STOCK (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); 

PERSON: SMIDT, HELIO HELIO SMIDT (90%); 



288 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
The Director of the F.B.I. said fraud at savings and loans seized by Federal regulators was ''pervasive'' and warned that pursuing the hundreds of cases would be a costly effort stretching out over several years. William S. Sessions said the agency was investigating criminal fraud at 234 failed institutions. [Page A1.] 
 
A Government memorandum about Lincoln Savings raised questions about the competence of the man appointed by the Government as chief executive of the institution. [D7.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
American membership in a new development bank for Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union faces opposition from conservative Republicans, organized labor and special-interest groups. [D1.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Shell Oil introduced a reformulated gasoline to reduce tailpipe and evaporation emissions from automobiles in 10 cities, including New York, where air quality is a problem. [D1.]
 
CBS reported a 52 percent rise in first-quarter profits and a 16.5 percent gain in sales, largely because of its broadcasts of the Super Bowl and the NCAA basketball tournament. [D1.]
 
The new economic reform program in Brazil is expected to have a significant impact on American companies. Johnson & Johnson was the first big company to be affected. [D1.]
 
Two businessmen pleaded guilty to engaging in a $4 billion tax-fraud scheme, a United States Attorney said. [D4.]
 
The attempted takeover of West-Point Pepperell has put financial pressure on William F. Farley and the Chicago industrialist has proposed to revise the debt of the company he created to finance the deal. [D2.]
 
Talks are continuing between Boeing and three potential Japanese equity partners in its proposed 767-X aircraft. [D4.]
 
Pepsico is ending its small soft-drink business in South Africa, after the failure of its franchised Cape Town bottler. [D5.]
 
Security Pacific reported a 5 percent increase in first-quarter earnings, to $188.4 million. [D7.]
 
A judge dealt a blow to Norton in its effort to elude a takeover by BTR, by ordering the company to restore a canceled shareholders meeting at which BTR intends to try to oust the board. [D4.]
 
Jean-Louis Scherrer became the latest luxury clothing designer to be bought out by a Japanese-controlled company. [D4.]
 
MARKETS

 
Stocks fell slightly in the wake of a sharp drop in oil prices. The Dow was off 1.35 points, to 2,729.73. [D8.]
 
Treasury securities prices rose in light trading, as dealers cautiously bought securities in advance of reports on retail sales and producer prices. [D15.] Yields were unchanged to slightly higher on money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report. [D6.]
 
The dollar ended narrowly mixed in thin trading as dealers shrugged off continued efforts by some European central banks to shore up the Japanese yen. [D14.]
 
Prices of orange juice futures jumped after the Government projected a smaller Florida orange harvest than expected. Oil futures ended mostly higher. [D14.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The agreement by MCI to buy Telecom is raising several antitrust issues. Talking Deals. [D2.]
 
Several waste companies could be helped by new Environmental Protection Agency rules that could raise the cost of operating landfills by as much as $880 million a year. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Saatchi & Saatchi has begun to promote a novel system that turns product development into a schoolyard game. Randall Rothenberg: Advertisisng. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (68%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); PEP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (53%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); SHELL OIL CO (56%); BOEING CO (54%); PEPSICO INC (53%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); TAKEOVERS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); GASOLINE (74%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); SOFT DRINKS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RETAIL SALES (67%); BASKETBALL (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (52%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%); 



289 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: An Old Liberal, a New Sermon

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Robert B. Reich is on the stump again. His audience is a cross section of the Washington establishment: nearly 80 lobbyists, politicians, businessmen, economists, union leaders and journalists. They hurried through their luncheon of salmon and asparagus, leaving ample time to hear Mr. Reich speak and to cross-examine him.
Mr. Reich, a Harvard professor, is one of the nation's best-known liberals. In the early 1980's, he popularized the concept of industrial policy, which proposed Government subsidies and incentives to strengthen American industry and overcome the Rust Belt blight. Now, he is getting a new public hearing for a fresh industrial policy, one he contends would make the United States more competitive in the emerging global economy. And this time the appeal goes beyond the liberal movement, embracing free-marketeers, although he still has plenty of critics in that camp.
 
Simple and Vivid Message
Mr. Reich, who is 4 feet 11 inches tall, arrived for the lunch at the Institute for International Economics, a Washington research group, carrying a worn wooden footstool that he placed behind the lectern in the crowded dining room. His message was simple and vivid, delivered with the certainty of a sermon: Business competition has changed radically, but neither public policy nor public perception has made the adjustment. 
American-owned corporations are no longer the sole source of the nation's competitiveness and living standard, he said. A Philips (Dutch) or a Honda (Japanese) shifts wealth to the United States when they put factories here, just as General Motors factories in Europe shower wealth on that continent at the expense of the United States. Therefore, Government policy should concentrate on getting the world's best companies to put their premier operations here, ignoring nationality. ''We no longer know what the pronoun 'we' means or who is 'us,' '' Mr. Reich said, repeating a favorite phrase.
Among other measures, he wants laws changed so that foreign corporations are allowed to participate in government-financed joint research. Rebuild the transportation system, he says, so any company would want to locate here. And, above all, Mr. Reich believes the Federal Government should foster education and on-the-job training to upgrade the skills of millions of American workers.
Actually, the role Mr. Reich assigns to the Government today is not much different than in 1983, when he emerged as the guru of an earlier industrial policy that also emphasized job training and subsidies. But two important changes have widened Mr. Reich's appeal.
In 1983, he wanted the Government to favor sunrise industries - the emerging makers of specialty steels, electronics, precision-built cars -while allowing low-tech manufacturing to shrink. That alienated many economists who considered market forces to be better than the Government at picking winners and losers.
 
A New Approach
Mr. Reich, a conciliator by nature, no longer disputes this view, arguing instead that the Government must upgrade the nation as a whole so that market forces will, in fact, attract the world's best investments. ''His new approach is a better one,'' said Robert M. Solow, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. ''And he is correct that there are a number of things the free markets tend to neglect, like research and job training.''
In the early 1980's, Mr. Reich and the new liberal movement that he helped shape were also more nationalistic, the goal then being to promote only American-owned companies. Now, nationality is unimportant, and that indifference appeals to many free-marketeers; they endorse unrestricted corporate investment anywhere in the world.
In fact, Mr. Reich's luncheon host, the Institute for International Economics, is an organization of free- marketeers and the institute's director, C. Fred Bergsten, welcomes Mr. Reich as an unexpected ally. ''I want to make the world safe for foreign investment and he wants to harness foreign investment to American interests,'' Mr. Bergsten said.
The speech was Mr. Reich's second appearance of the day. The 45-year-old professor, who teaches political economy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, had just come from the State Department, where he gave a similar address to senior staff members, most of them also free marketeers.
Mr. Bergsten had placed a copy of a Reich article entitled ''Who Is Us?'' at every place setting. The article, which pulls together the professor's evolving thesis, drew wide public attention when it was published in the Harvard Business Review in January. It is a prelude to a nearly finished book that Mr. Reich hopes will be as influential as his 1983 work, ''The Next American Frontier.'' Walter F. Mondale stayed up all one night to read that book and quoted from it as the Democratic candidate for President in 1984.
 
Some are Skeptical
But many of the luncheon guests were skeptical. Howard Samuels, an official of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., disputed Mr. Reich's characterization of the Japanese as good employers, saying that they resist unionization at their American plants. Assar Lindbeck, an economist at the University of Stockholm, said the borrowing required to finance Mr. Reich's Government policies would leave the private sector short of funds. And Michael Maibach, a lobbyist for the Intel Corporation, a California semiconductor company that concentrates most of its operations at home, challenged Mr. Reich's most basic conclusion: that multinational companies are shedding their national ties and operating globally.
Mr. Maibach and others argue that only a handful of huge corporations are truly global. The rest, particularly those in Japan, still try to keep most of their wealth and best technology at home, they contend, shortchanging other countries where they operate. ''The truly global corporation is not yet here,'' said Paul Krugman, an M.I.T. economist who is a co-author of a recent book on the subject.
The implication is that Mr. Reich's research might be faulty, a charge that has emerged in the past, not only for Mr. Reich but also for other economists who attempt to describe broad new trends, basing their conclusions on a mixture of statistics, personal experience, anecdotes and interviews.
Even Mr. Reich's fans acknowledge that his declarations are sometimes too black and white. ''There are times when Bob, in his effort to clarify a point, paints it in more unequivocal colors than I would,'' said Raymond Vernon, a colleague at the Kennedy School who reads the first drafts of Mr. Reich's manuscripts. ''But he is a brilliant popularizer, and he is popularizing ideas that are very important.''
 
Office in Cambridge
Mr. Reich operates from a narrow, cluttered first-floor office in the Kennedy School building in Cambridge, Mass. Two colorful paintings on the walls - both by Mr. Reich - illustrate themes from his 1970's experiences at the Federal Trade Commission, which he joined after completing Yale Law School and working for the Solicitor General's office.
The F.T.C. cases that Mr. Reich handled, as head of policy planning, first made him familiar with the difficulties then dragging down major American industries like auto making, consumer electronics and steel. His first magazine articles in the late 1970's were an attempt to describe the downfall. He has written many books and articles since then.
When President Carter lost to Ronald Reagan in 1980, Mr. Reich went on to the professorship at Harvard, which he has held for a decade. But the ''eye-opening'' F.T.C. experience and the information collected there led eventually to the proposals set forth in ''The Next American Frontier.''
Mr. Reich's research today is intertwined with teaching. He carries a full load: four courses a semester, 120 students, more than 1,000 papers to read. He devotes afternoons to teaching, mornings to writing and nights to more work, with dinner and early evening reserved for his two pre-teen-age sons.
 
Consultant to Corporations
He spends three or four days a month as a corporate consultant; 80 such sessions with executives in the last three years were a major source of information for his forthcoming book.
''We discuss how global resources are allocated, corporate strategies, what the executives expect from government,'' Mr. Reich said. ''I test each of my ideas on 15 or 20 companies in these sessions, and if they are confirmed, then I'll go to the statistics, and if there are anomalies, I work these out.''
Other forces have shaped Mr. Reich's thinking. One is his quest for consensus, in part an outgrowth of his relationship with his father, Edwin. The elder Mr. Reich, a conservative Republican, owned a women's clothing store in rural South Salem, N.Y., where Mr. Reich grew up. ''Probably my greatest political success in terms of persuading anybody of the rightness of my views has been in convincing my father to move from the extreme right to the center right,'' Mr. Reich said.
 
Product of Kennedy Era
Mr. Reich came of age in the Kennedy era and never lost what he described as a feeling of being a Camelot Democrat. After sputnik, President Kennedy's push to overtake the Soviet Union in space ''filled me with patriotism,'' Mr. Reich said.
He was a high school senior when President Kennedy was assassinated. A few months later he graduated as valedictorian in a class of 80 and went on to Dartmouth, where he was caught up in various causes, among them the anti-Vietnam War movement. After Dartmouth came a Rhodes Scholarship, where he first delved into what would become his lifelong interest: the relationship of law, politics and economics.

GRAPHIC: photo: While his views on industrial policy are attracting a growing new audience, Robert B. Reich, standing at center, maintains a full teaching load at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where he recently instructed a class entitled ''Law, Politics and Industrial Structure.'' (The New York Times/Jim Bourg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC PLANNING LIBERALISM (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (68%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (65%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; REICH, ROBERT B ROBERT B REICH (97%); 



290 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Role In Aid Bank Draws Fire

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
The Bush Administration faces stiff opposition from conservative Republicans, organized labor and some special-interest ethnic groups to American membership in a new regional development bank for Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
The critics are upset with the participation of the Soviet Union, whose demands for loans they expect would divert resources that should be available to the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe.
Two of the leading opponents of the new European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are the Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, and Senator Bob Kasten of Wisconsin, the ranking Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee. They have introduced legislation that would require the United States to negotiate a separate Eastern European lending agency with the World Bank, a lending institution that bars Soviet participation. 
 
Seeking Tough Trade-offs
''We're going to force the Administration into making very difficult trade-offs,'' Senator Kasten said today. ''I'm relatively confident that we can block participation of the Soviet Union.''
The critics point to the Soviet Union's tough policies toward Lithuania, which declared its independence last month, as a reason for their opposition. Analysts in Washington say that whether the opponents will succeed in blocking American membership or Soviet participation will depend upon how Moscow handles the crisis of Baltic seccession.
The Administration committed to American participation in the new $12 billion bank at a meeting on Monday in Paris of the 42 governments of the East and West. But the United States' contribution of $365 million depends on a Congressional appropriation, and that is where the battle over participation will be fought.
 
Kirkland Sends Letter
Lane Kirkland, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., in a letter dated last Sunday, urged Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d ''to block U.S. participation in an E.B.R.D. that does not preclude Soviet participation.''
Citing ''Soviet tactics of intimidation and harassment in Lithuania and Estonia,'' the head of the 14-million-member labor organization said American participation would ''send the wrong signal to Soviet authorities of business as usual.''
Like the World Bank, the new regional development bank would provide resources to build ports, highways, schools, hospitals, communications systems and other centers in economically depressed areas of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
Details of where the organization is to be based and who will be its president must still be worked out, but are expected to be resolved by the end of next month. The bank will be formally established at a treaty-signing ceremony in Paris on May 30.
With a 10 percent stake, the United States would become the largest single member of the bank. Thirty percent of the capital would be put up in cash with the balance ''callable,'' or available as needed.
The European Community will control 51 percent of the bank's capital, with Japan controlling 8.5 percent.
 
At Least 12 Groups
The American critics also object to establishing still another multilateral lending bureaucracy, after a postwar proliferation of agencies like the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the African Development Bank. About a dozen such international organizations exist.
The new bank was proposed by President Francois Mitterrand of France. Many of the analysts see his initiative as a French effort to take a leadership role on assistance for Eastern Europe to balance the emerging power of Germany.
The Bush Administration initially resisted including the Soviet Union, but failed to win its point among the European Governments.
 
Compromise on Borrowing
Rather than pull out of the organization, as it had threatened to do at first, the Administration reached a compromise with the European members to bar Moscow from borrowing more capital than it pays into the bank over three years.
The Soviet Union has 6 percent of the capital, but under the 30 percent cash stipulation, it put up only $216 million, instead of $720 million. Thus, Moscow would be able to borrow no more than $216 million.
Yet under another provision of the compromise agreement, the restriction could be suspended after three years,, which would open up larger loans to the Soviet Union. Eighty-five percent of the members, voting on the basis of their capital strength, would have to approve the measure.
The United States, with its 10 percent stake, could block this only if it got another leading member, like Japan, with its 8.5 percent, to side with it.
 
Brady's Position
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady has argued that with or without the United States, the European bank would have proceeded anyway and if the United States were not to participate, Washington would be sending an unwanted signal that it cared little about Eastern Europe.
''If I decide not to go into this thing, what are the conseqeunces of being left out?'' the Treasury Secretary asked recently. ''What kind of position does that present in the world's view of the U.S. interest in the march of these countries to freedom? I can just see the newspaper headlines.''
He said that with the restrictions on Soviet lending now in the bank's charter, the agency represented ''a salubrious way to help these countries make this gigantic move'' toward free markets.
 
European Dominance Cited
But Senator Kasten complained today that the bank would be ''dominated by European policy makers who are indifferent, if not hostile, to growth economics.''
Other critics, like Dr. Edward L. Hudgins, the director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy research organization in Washington, contended that Soviet membership could cause problems for the Eastern European countries.
''The U.S.S.R. could delay or derail loans to these countries if they offended Moscow,'' he said. ''The U.S.S.R. also could block membership of the Baltic republics as they seek to re-establish their independence.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on April 12 about a new development bank for Eastern Europe misidentified the ranking Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee. He is Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, not Robert W. Kasten Jr. of Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); LITHUANIA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ESTONIA (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ETHNICITY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



291 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Reform Seen Hurting U.S. Earnings

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Brazil's new economic reform program, which in three weeks has brought Latin America's largest economy to a near standstill, is expected to have a significant impact on American companies as well.
Johnson & Johnson, the health-care and consumer products company, yesterday became the first big company to announce a write-off because of the impact of the new Brazilian program. Other companies that securities analysts expect to be affected include General Motors, Ford Motor, Caterpillar, Citicorp, Union Carbide and Quaker Oats.
The American companies would first be hurt by a loss of sales if the economy falls into a sharp recession, which is expected if the new economic program is approved intact by the Brazilian Congress. In addition, a devaluation of the new Brazilian cruzeiro is expected, although the size of the devaluation is not yet clear. Such a move would result in lower gains for American companies when their earnings are converted into dollars. 
And American companies that are big exporters from Brazil, like the paper products maker Champion International Corporation, could be hurt if the tax on export earnings is increased.
The $125 million one-time charge against Johnson & Johnson's first-quarter earnings also includes the write-off and restructuring of Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries in several Latin American countries, principally Argentina. The write-off, which amounts to 38 cents a share, was not broken down. Earnings were 95 cents a share in the first quarter last year.
The centerpiece of the economic reform plan, which President Fernando Collor de Mello announced just after his inauguration on March 15, is an 18-month freeze on about 80 percent of the money in bank accounts. The purpose is to reduce consumer spending in order to fight hyperinflation. Prices have surged more than 48-fold in the last 12 months. The plan also includes a sharp reduction in Government jobs and ministries, the sale of state companies to private investors, the end of some subsidies and a reduction in import tariffs.
The Brazilian Congress has approved parts of the program but is still debating the rest of it, including the freeze on bank deposits. A significant easing of this restriction could change the outlook. But it could also dampen hope for the reduction of inflation.
 
Economy Grinds to a Halt
So far, the freeze, combined with the requirement to keep paying laid-off workers, has caused the economy to grind to a halt and raised the possibility of a deep recession. Dealers are not selling cars, cafes and restaurants are closed and hundreds of thousands of workers have been laid off.
Because laid-off workers are getting paid, the new currency is slowly getting into circulation. What makes assessments difficult is the guessing about what people will do with these few cruzeiros - spend them, save them or protect themselves by buying dollars.
Edward Kerschner and William Dinning of Paine Webber Inc. have identified more than 100 companies with affiliates in Brazil. The uncertainty of the situation, however, makes identifying the possible targets much easier than assessing the specific damage.
 
'The Impact Varies'
''The impact varies from company to company, and at this stage it is virtually impossible to quantify the impact,'' Mr. Dinning said.
According to the Paine Webber analysis, the General Motors Corporation, which produced 193,000 cars in Brazil last year, has stopped producing cars now but is still paying the workers. A sharp slowdown in sales could be a major shock because the company counts on profits from Europe and Brazil to offset losses in North America.
Citicorp, the holding company for Citibank, has a large retail banking operation in Brazil, and with two Brazilian banks, it runs the nation's largest credit card operation. The freeze, by curtailing spending, could have a striking impact here. The impact on the company's earnings, which were $1.16 a share last year, would be less than 30 cents a share if the entire credit card operation were shut down, the analysts said.
Caterpillar Inc. has revenues of more than $500 million a year from Brazil, or about 7 percent of its worldwide sales. The Union Carbide Corporation's operations in Brazil accounted for 15 percent of the company's earnings last year. So both companies could be hurt.
The Quaker Oats Company's earnings are expected to be down about $2 million this fiscal year as a result of the Brazilian situation, the analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (69%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECESSION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); DEVALUATION (74%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (63%); PAPER MFG (52%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



292 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Talking Deals;
MCI Deal Called Antitrust Test

BYLINE: By Keith Bradsher

 BODY:
THE agreement by the MCI Communications Corporation to buy Telecom USA Inc. raises several antitrust issues. The Justice Department's response to the $1.25 billion deal, in which the nation's second-largest long-distance company would buy the No. 4 company, is widely seen as a test case of the Bush Administration's antitrust policy. ''If you're going to challenge a merger, this would be the one,'' said a former regulator who asked not to be identified.
But former Government officials and other experts on the long-distance telephone industry say they doubt that the Justice Department will seek to block the deal. 
The department's reaction may also signal whether the Administration intends to continue the Government's oversight of the telecommunications industry through the judicial system, or instead give a greater role to the Federal Communications Commission.
MCI says its acquisition of Telecom will increase competition in the $52 billion long-distance market because the acquired assets will make it a more fit competitor to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. MCI seeks only to take business from A.T.& T. and does not try to compete directly with the regional telephone companies, said MCI's president, Bert C. Roberts Jr. The Justice Department declined to comment.
The department's current merger guidelines, released in 1982, do not require a general review of the Telecom deal. The Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust act does require MCI to give the department 30 days to decide whether to question the takeover.
The agreement announced on Monday between MCI, with 12 percent of the market, and Telecom, with 1.4 percent, would raise by only 34 points the index the department uses to measure market concentration. The current guidelines call for a review when the move exceeds 50 points in an industry as concentrated as long-distance service, in which A.T.& T. holds two-thirds of the market and U S Sprint has 9 percent.
But some economists have argued that market concentration indexes should not be applied to industries as heavily regulated as long distance. ''The market shares in this industry are as much a result of regulation as company cost structures,'' said Peter Pitsch, a Washington lawyer and until recently the F.C.C.'s chief of staff.
Some academics contend that the Justice Department's guidelines underestimate the extent to which small concerns and potential entrants may discourage market leaders from raising prices. By this criterion, the absorption of America's largest regional long-distance company by a market leader is harder to accept, said Alfred E. Kahn, a Cornell University economist and former chairman of the New York Public Service Commission.
The question raised by Mr. Kahn and other economists and former regulators is whether Telecom, if left alone, could grow into a fourth national competitor. Both MCI and U S Sprint needed more than a decade to become profitable national networks, and there may be cause for concern if these market leaders are then allowed to acquire other businesses trying to follow the same long road, said Eli Noam, a Columbia University economist and New York Public Service Commissioner.
Telecom's sales have been growing by 25 to 30 percent a year, reaching $713 million last year with earnings of $36.9 million. The company has completed 40 acquisitions since its founding in 1984. It has laid an extensive network of fiber-optic cable in Iowa and the Southeast, and developed several innovative products, like a special calling card that allows users to set up conference calls from any Touch-Tone telephone.
Telecom has won a strong base among small and medium-sized businesses, and in the last several years has begun to offer 800 numbers and expanded its national services. It is also the keystone of the National Telecommunications Network, a consortium of six of the largest regional carriers that seeks to coordinate their activities.
Even by the politically sensitive standards of antitrust regulation, the Telecom deal is especially touchy for the Justice Department. On the one hand, the Bush Administration has signaled an interest in increased enforcement of existing statutes, and the Telecom deal is the first large transaction with clear antitrust issues.
But the F.C.C.'s new chairman, Alfred C. Sikes, and other Government officials have been arguing that the F.C.C. should reassert some of the regulatory authority it lost when the Justice Department and Federal District Judge Harold H. Greene oversaw the breakup of A.T.& T. in 1984. A challenge to the Telecom agreement would put the Justice Department back in the center of telecommunications regulation.
The Justice Department also has a longstanding interest in the survival of MCI, having shielded it for many years until it grew into a large corporation able to compete with A.T.& T. In the end, the Justice Department may find itself hamstrung by its commitment to the current merger guidelines, Mr. Kahn said. For this reason, he said, a challenge to the Telecom agreement would be a hard case to win in court.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TALKING DEALS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (96%); VZ (NYSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (96%); AT&T INC (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELECOM USA INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (97%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); LAWYERS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



293 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Two Enter Guilty Pleas In Tax-Fraud Scheme

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Two businessmen have pleaded guilty to engaging in a tax-fraud scheme that involved more than $4 billion in rigged and bogus transactions in Treasury bills and other Government securities, the United States Attorney in Manhattan announced yesterday.
The men, Jeffrey L. Feldman and Paul J. Foont, pleaded guilty last week in two separate hearings. The indictment, which was handed up in October, stems from a series of transactions in 1981 and 1982 by a number of limited partnerships known collectively as the Cralin partnerships. 
According to the indictment, the scheme involved the creation of illegal losses for tax shelters through engaging in fraudulent securities trades. Those losses were then sold to investors, who could then use them to decrease their income taxes by offsetting other income. The investors did not commit a crime, the Government said.
Both men are charged with one count of conspiring to defraud the United States. They both face a maximum sentence of five years in prison, restitution and a $250,000 fine.
The guilty pleas close another chapter on the largest tax fraud case in history. That case, involving charges against Charles A. Atkins, the managing partner of Securities Groups, an umbrella organization for several investment partnerships, and two associates, resulted in guilty verdicts after a 1987 jury trial. The men were charged with engaging in a series of rigged transactions in Treasury bill futures and other Government securities to create $1.1 billion in fraudulent losses and expenses.
The gradual exposure for the jury to the words and world of Wall Street underscored a crucial aspect of the trial - differentiating for a jury of laymen between the complex and once perfectly legal financing of tax-shelter deals and the crimes Mr. Atkins and his associates had been accused of.
Mr. Feldman and Mr. Foont were charged with conspiring with officials at one of the investment partnerships in the Securities Group, known as New York Hanseatic, a dealer in United States Government and agency securities.
 
Illegal Tax Losses Sold
Hanseatic sold illegal tax losses that were created through phony transactions in Government securities to the Cralin partnerships, said Robert J. Cleary, the assistant United States attorney in charge of the Cralin case. ''They bought the losses and in turn sold the losses to their own investors,'' he said.
But in entering their guilty pleas, the two men admitted that under their supervision Cralin entered into more than $4 billion in fraudulent deals with Hanseatic to create phony losses for tax deductions for its investors.
A prearranged, fraudulent transaction in the securities would be one in which there was no economic risk to either party to the trade. In other words, both sides knew the outcome of the transaction regardless of the market.
As part of the transaction, Cralin paid Hanseatic a fee of $1 million. In return, according to the plea, Hanseatic provided documents to Cralin that made it appear that Cralin had approximately $140 million in tax deductions.
In other words, the two men pleaded guilty to simply buying the illegal tax losses, and then passing them on to their investors.
According to the Government, none of the investors in Cralin or in Hanseatic were held criminally liable for any of the activities. However, they could be found to owe taxes to the Government, as well as interest and possibly penalties.
Mr. Feldman, 42, of Skillman, N.J., will be sentenced on June 28. Mr. Foont, 51, of New York City, will be sentenced on June 21.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; GOVERNMENT BONDS TAX FRAUD (93%); GUILTY PLEAS (93%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); VERDICTS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BONDS (76%); SENTENCING (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (71%); FUTURES (69%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT; FELDMAN, JEFFREY L; FOONT, PAUL J PAUL J FOONT (66%); JEFFREY L FELDMAN (66%); 



294 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Security Pacific's Net Increases 5%

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEV, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 11

 BODY:
The Security Pacific Corporation, the nation's fourth-largest banking company, reported today that first-quarter earnings increased 5 percent, to $188.4 million, from $179.3 million in the period a year earlier.
Earnings were $1.54 a share, unchanged from the 1989 period because of more shares outstanding.
''The continuing growth and strength in our primary markets in California produced the second-best quarterly net income in Security Pacific's history,'' said Robert H. Smith, the company's president and chief executive. Security Pacific's best quarter was the fourth quarter of 1989, when it earned $191.7 million. 
 
'Rather Positive'
Tony Howard, an analyst at Crowell, Weedon & Company in Los Angeles, rated Security Pacific's first-quarter performance as ''rather positive.'' He said, however, that losses in the company's struggling Arizona bank subsidiary would prevent it from matching the performance of some of its California competitors, notably Wells Fargo & Company.
Nonperforming loans and leases increased 6 percent, to $1.74 billion from $1.64 billion. The increase was caused in part by higher international nonperforming credits in developed countries. For example, interest rates have been high in Australia, the company said.
Net interest income, the difference between the interest the company received on loans and investments and the interest it paid on deposits and other borrowed funds, increased 2 percent, to $746.6 million from $733.8 million.
But the net interest margin, the spread between interest paid and interest received, declined to 3.95 percent from 4.21 percent. The margin was pinched because the prime rate was cut in Janaury to 10 percent from 10 1/2 percent. The cut gave borrowers of loans at the prime rate a break in interest payments. Additionally, the company sold $750 million worth of credit-card loans, which contain a wide interest margin.
Non-interest income for the quarter increased 11 percent, to $479.6 million from $431.6 million.
Security Pacific's shares were unchanged today, closing at $35.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (LSE) (95%); 8648 (TSE) (95%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (95%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); CROWELL WEEDON & CO (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITY PACIFIC CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PRIME RATES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: LEV, MICHAEL ROBERT H SMITH (57%); 



295 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Efforts to Prop Up the Yen Have Little Effect on Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended narrowly mixed yesterday in thin trading as dealers shrugged off continued efforts by some European central banks to shore up the Japanese yen.
Currency dealers said the dollar-selling against the yen by some European central banks had little impact on the dollar's level against the Japanese currency, which has been under pressure in recent weeks amid growing signs of a weakening Japanese economy.
Most dealers said they saw the intervention, which followed a similar move on Monday, as orders executed on behalf of the Bank of Japan rather than any concerted effort by the Group of Seven industrialized nations to stem the yen's weakness. 
''It was a token appearance,'' said Zlatko Glamuzina, chief dealer at the New York office of Banco di Sicilia. ''If the central banks wanted to support the yen, they should have sold their own currencies for yen because the yen is weak against all currencies.''
 
Thin Holiday Trading
Trading was described as extremely thin yesterday because of the Passover holiday and in advance of the Easter holiday.
In Tokyo, where the global trading day begins, the dollar rose 0.35 Japanese yen to close at 158.50 yen. It was later quoted at 158.15 yen in London and at 157.95 yen in New York, up from 157.60 yen late Tuesday.
The dollar was mixed against the British pound. Sterling bought $1.6427 in London, up from $1.6345, and $1.6425 in New York, down from $1.6451 Tuesday.
Against the West German mark, the dollar fell to 1.6735 marks in London, from 1.6900 marks Tuesday. It traded at 1.6720 marks in New York, down from 1.6750.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's quotes, included: 1.4800 Swiss francs, down from 1.4830; 5.6210 French francs, down from 5.6285; 1,230.25 Italian lire, up from 1,230.16, and 1.1644 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1692.
Gold prices fell. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $374.30 a troy ounce, down 70 cents from late Tuesday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid of $374.75 an ounce, 75 cents lower.
Gold traded in London at $374.75 an ounce, down from late Tuesday's bid of $375.15. In Zurich, the bid for gold fell to $374 an ounce, from $375.25.
Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $1.84 to close at a bid of $375.13 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); BANCO DI SICILIA SPA (56%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EASTER SEASON (72%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); PASSOVER (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 



296 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Inch Higher; Trading Light

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities inched higher in light trading yesterday, as dealers cautiously bought securities in advance of reports on retail sales and producer prices.
A sharp drop in oil prices helped to spur buying early in the session. But oil staged a recovery in the afternoon, and much of the early gains in the credit markets were reversed.
A successful auction of $7.5 billion worth of new seven-year Treasury notes also provided some support. 
At the auction, the new notes were sold at an average yield of 8.62 percent, up from 8.02 percent at the last such auction on Jan. 10. That is the highest yield on a seven-year Treasury security since the 9.39 percent yield reached at the auction on April 12, 1989.
''We probably would have had a decent rally if it hadn't been for oil,'' one government bond trader said.
 
Retail Sales Projections
Anticipation of a positive report on retail sales figures for March, to be released this morning, also played a role in the market.
Most analysts are expecting the report to show that overall sales rose by three-tenths to four-tenths of a percentage point last month, continuing a period of slow growth.
''Once you adjust the numbers for inflation, there is not much growth there,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, a vice president and senior economist at the PNC Financial Corporation in Pittsburgh. ''It seems as if sales tapered off as we went through the first quarter.''
Dealers are also expecting the March report on producer prices, expected tomorrow, to be positive as well. Mr. Hoffman is projecting that producer prices rose by one-tenth of a percentage point last month as a result of declines in energy prices.
 
Extended Holiday Break
In spite of the essentially positive outlook, an extended holiday break has made most dealers cautious.
The Government securities market will close at 2 P.M. today and will be closed all day tomorrow in observance of Good Friday.
''We have a short day on Thursday, and when the producer price report comes out on Friday a good part of the industry won't be around,'' said William M. Brachfeld, an executive vice president at Daiwa Securities America Inc. ''Those factors make it hard to be anything but cautious.''
Indeed, the market was sluggish for much of yesterday.
''The Refcorp auction on Tuesday provided the entertainment for the week,'' said Joe Liro, a vice president and money market economist at S. G. Warburg Securities Inc., referring to the troubled sale of 40-year notes by the Resolution Funding Corporation. ''But now, people basically want to beat it out of town.'' 30-Year Bonds Gain 6/32 By late yesterday, the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 99 1/4, up 6/32, to yield 8.56 percent. Late Tuesday the closely watched issue was offered at a price to yield 8.58 percent.
Among other issues, the 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 9/32, up 3/32, to yield 8.60 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 19/32, up 1/32, to yield 8.58 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates dipped slightly.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.74 percent, down one basis point, or hundredth of a point. Six-month bill rates dipped by two basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.74 percent. And one-year bills fell by seven basis points, to an offered rate of 7.66 percent.
Elsewhere, Baltimore County, Md., offered $119 million worth of bonds at competitive bid in the tax-exempt municipal bond market.
An investor group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. won the issue, which consists of serial bonds with maturities from 1991 to 2010. Coupons on the bonds range from 5.80 percent in 1991 to 7 percent in 2010.
The issue is rated AAA by both Moody's Investors Services and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
Light Corporation Trading
Trading in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was very light, dealers said. Prices of most issues were unchanged on the day.
In the secondary market for municipal bonds, prices of most actively traded issues rose by about 1/8 point.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of seven-year Treasury notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Average Price	99.379	Average Yield	8.62%	Low Price	99.328	High Yield	8.63%	High Price	99.379	Low Yield	8.62%	Accepted at low price	47%	Total applied for	$19,441,864	Accepted	$7,519,506	N.Y. applied for	$18,010,201	N.Y. accepted	$7,028,731	Noncompetitive	$414,000	Interest set at	8 1/2%	
 
The seven-year notes mature April 15, 1997.

GRAPHIC: graph: 7-year treasury notes (Source: Treasury Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (66%); DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (63%); PRICES OF TREASURY (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RETAIL SALES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EASTER SEASON (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 



297 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;
Fluff 'n' Stuff on Opening Day

BYLINE: By Ira Berkow

 BODY:
It was the opening of the baseball season, the sun shone - except, of course, in Chicago, where it was a typically gray, windy, mitten-required opening day - the players ran to their positions, the fans ran to their seats, or to shelter under the stands, and the air was filled with cries of ''Play Ball!'' and other glorious nonsense.
There is nothing like opening day to inspire even the most logical, the most pragmatic, the most feet-on-the-turf type person to spring into a rapturous ode on our so-called national pastime.
This thought began to ripen when it was learned that Itzhak Perlman had agreed to play the national anthem at the Mets' opener, which he did, on Monday. A number of years ago I had occasion to visit the celebrated violinist in his apartment on Riverside Drive. He had it on good authority when he moved in that this apartment, quite a large apartment, in fact, was the same one in which Babe Ruth once lived. 
''I believe it,'' Perlman said. ''There were a lot of broken windows. Babe must have practiced a lot.''
Perlman said he never had played the national anthem at a sporting event or a concert, and the inference was that he probably wouldn't.
''I want the standing ovation to come at the end,'' he said, ''not at the beginning.''
But he is a great baseball fan, and it is obvious how he could have been coaxed to stroke his sweet strings at home plate.
And then in the air was also that talk that arises concomitant with the baseball opener in America -I don't know if the winds have carried it to Canada, yet -about new hopes and new dreams and new horizons and new mown and new moon and Newman (Al, Twins second baseman).
''Opening Day is always pretty special,'' said Carlton Fisk of the White Sox, as quoted in The National. ''It's the rebirth of America's pastime after a dormant winter. It's pretty exciting, like when the apple trees blossom and when the cherry trees blossom. It's a time for celebration.''
Even august editorialists, who are generally immersed in the economy and the military and judiciary, often and willingly get their heads turned on opening day. Baseball is still supposed to be the game we played as children, and will always be so to most of us. In reference to the recent lockout of the players by the owners, it was written in The Times that ''strikes are for grumpy grown-ups; baseball isn't.''
The sentiment is laudable, but, of course, the game of baseball on a professional level is the business of baseball, as the editorialists understand, and regardless of how much the ideal is primped with national anthems and cherry blossoms and recitations of youth. Baseball as a business is an unpalatable fact in our fields of dreams, but it is fact nonetheless.
Baseball is the business of professional baseball players, as well as - and this no one seems to argue - of baseball owners.
Many fans and sports commentators resent the salaries ballplayers receive. And the more they get, the more they are resented. This doesn't mean that as soon as the first pitch hits the first bat, or the first catcher's mitt, that the fans won't be cheering. They will, and did.
But you also hear: ''Can you imagine? Mattingly is getting $19 million for five years! I don't care how good he is. No ballplayer should get that kind of money.''
Of course, little of this is heard: ''My God, Steinbrenner is paying him $19 million for five years! Can you imagine how much Steinbrenner has if he can afford that? No owner should have that kind of money.''
But George earns what the marketplace will bear, as does Don. Odd, though, how much we care about these ballplayers. Daily, for example, we've been reading about the new Darryl Strawberry, who, at age 28, says he has changed his life, after 26 days in a rehabilitation center this winter for, according to Strawberry, an alcohol problem. But he also says that this is the first time since he was a boy that he has been ''humble.''
Certainly, we root for anyone with a problem to straighten it out, especially if he strives to, as Strawberry apparently is. But newspapers for years have also been filled with stories about whether this will be the year that Darryl Strawberry grows up.
The consuming interest, however, is based decidedly more on whether he will have a good year with the bat and glove, and lead the Mets to a World Series. If it weren't, we'd be following closely the progress of others who have been through rehabilitation, like a fireman or an airplane pilot or a garbage collector.
''Isn't it terrible,'' a young woman recently said to Marvin Miller, the former executive director of the Major League Players Association, ''that teachers don't earn anything near what a ballplayer makes, and do so much more for society?''
''That's not the fault of the ballplayers,'' said Miller, ''that's the fault of society.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA ITZHAK PERLMAN (71%); 



298 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE:  The New York Times Co reports earnings for Qtr to March 31

 BODY:

** COMPANY REPORTS **	 The New York Times Co (AMEX)	Qtr to March 31	1990	1989		 	 		 	 	Revenue	431,188,000	423,068,000		 	 	Net inc	16,589,000	b33,516,000		 	 	Share earns	.22	.42	 	 	 	
 
b-Included income from discontinued operations of $1,975,000, or 2 cents a share.
 
Discontinued operations reflected the sale of NYT Cable TV, which was sold in August 1989.
 
The company attributed the earnings decline to lower advertising linage at The New York Times due to continuing weakness in the New York region's economy, a 5-cent-a-share reduction in earnings from the July 1989 McCall's acquisition, and 8-cent- a-share reduction in earnings due to increased depreciation and interest expense related primarily to the completion of the building for The New York Times's new automated color production and distribution facility in Edison, N.J., and a newly constructed facility for the Gwinnett (Ga.) Daily News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (96%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DEPRECIATION (66%); 



299 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
GORBACHEV BRIEFS VISITING SENATORS

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 12

 BODY:
Visiting American senators said today that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had talked to them of making radical plans to reform the stagnant economy, but that he had also indicated he had no hard timetable for making such critical changes as price reform.
While various Soviet economists have been speculating on the likely nature of the new economic plan that is to be formed soon, the comment from the senators was the first hint of how Mr. Gorbachev might deal with a central part of the issue.
A package of a score of proposed economic reforms, including some free-market ideas on pricing, banking and taxing policies, is to be offered to Parliament within a few weeks, Soviet officials have said. 
Beyond those plans, however, Mr. Gorbachev has been given increased powers to make emergency decrees, which critics of the current economic spiral say he must use quickly and firmly if the economy is ever to be turned around.
 
'No Specific Timetable'
''He did indicate it would be done in phases with no specific timetable,'' said Senator George J. Mitchell, the Democratic majority leader, after a two-hour meeting with the Soviet leader, who reportedly described the economic crisis as ''the most critical stage of perestroika.''
Later, the Government press agency Tass quoted Mr. Gorbachev as telling the senators, ''We shall seek to keep processes within the democratic framework, although some of them will overstep it in some respects.''
A crucial element in the promised reform will be Mr. Gorbachev's resolve to use executive power to force unpopular economic cures on the public. In his five years in power, he has been criticized for procrastinating on true reform, fearing the disruption it will mean in Soviet life.
In those five years, the economic crisis has worsened. Mr. Gorbachev has had his economic advisers crafting the latest reform package and is scheduled to consider the final form of the package in meetings this weekend.
As the senators met privately with Mr. Gorbachev at the Kremlin, his Government kept up its steady publicity attempt to prepare the public for the promised radical changes.
 
Price Controls May Fall
The changes will mean that Government controls might be quickly dropped on perhaps 70 percent of Soviet prices, according to the prediction of Pavel Bunich, deputy chairman of Parliament's economic reform committee. He also estimated that up to 70 percent of state-owned properties might soon be leased to individuals or new business collectives.
There have been many such estimates amounting to a running debate in recent weeks by Government economists and deputies. But the only prescription and timetable that counts, Mr. Gorbachev's, has not yet been reliably disclosed.
He told the senators that the deleterious effects of the central command system of the Communist economy have meant that Soviet political reform has moved faster than the economy.
''We do not yet have a system,'' tass quoted him as saying. ''It has not yet taken shape,'' he added, noting the ''difficulties and popular concern.''
''It has become necessary to expedite economic transformation,'' Tass quoted him as saying, stressing that this was one of the main reasons why the presidency recently was equipped with stronger executive powers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CONGRESSIONAL TOURS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (77%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 



300 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Soviet Military Is Reported To Reassert Itself at Kremlin

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
The Soviet military, unhappy over President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reforms and its diminished status, is trying to reassert itself in Moscow, specialists from the Rand Corporation said today.
The specialists said that in recent weeks the influence of the military appears to have grown because Mr. Gorbachev needs the armed forces to help deal with regional disputes, particularly the crisis in Lithuania, the republic that is seeking to reassert its independence from the Soviet Union.
The increase in the military's influence may account for the toughened stance Soviet officials took in Washington last week on some arms-control issues, including what limits should be placed on the deployment of cruise missiles, said Arnold L. Horelick, an expert at the Rand Corporation, a research center in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Horelick, a former American intelligence analyst for Soviet affairs. said the growing military influence may portend a less accommodating position in talks over German reunification. 
 
Sources of the Findings
The assessments by the experts came as the Rand Corporation released a report on the Soviet military under Mr. Gorbachev that was based in part on interviews with Soviet military officials and a study of the Soviet press. Access to Soviet officials has been possible in recent years as a result of Mr. Gorbachev's policy of glasnost, or increased openness.
The Rand experts disagreed on whether the resurgence of military influence was temporary.
As the report was issued, a senior Pentagon official told reporters that the Soviet military was afflicted by turmoil in its ranks and was fearful about Mr. Gorbachev's reforms.
The official, Henry S. Rowen, an Assistant Defense Secretary for International Security Affairs, said that many Soviet officers recalled the ''very searing'' disruptions that were caused by Nikita S. Khrushchev's military cuts and that they were worried that this experience was being repeated.
 
'An Organization in Trouble'
Mr. Rowen, who recently returned from a visit to the Soviet Union, said recent reports of desertions and failures of draftees to show up for induction were ''signs of an organization in trouble.''
He said he had no direct knowledge of disputes between Soviet political and military leaders, but added that ''it would be surprising if there were not strains, given what Gorbachev is about.''
After the arms talks last week, some Administration officials speculated that the tougher Soviet stance on cruise-missile issues may reflect the growing influence of the Soviet military as Mr. Gorbachev tries to deal with the crisis in Lithuania.
But other officials say that too much is being made of this theory, suggesting that the Soviet approach on arms control may be the result of bargaining tactics.
Just what lies behind Moscow's latest arms-control approach may not be clear to American officials until mid-May, when Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d flies to Moscow for a final round of arms talks before the summit meeting between President Bush and President Gorbachev.
The Rand report also said Mr. Gorbachev had quietly orchestrated a wholesale replacement of senior Soviet officers in an effort to bring the military under tight civilian control.
In the first six months of 1989 alone, 12 top-level commanders were replaced, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); 

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (93%); ARNOLD L HORELICK (56%); 



301 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Estonian Parliament Votes To End All Military Service

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 12

 BODY:
The Estonian Parliament has voted overwhelmingly to end all military service in the republic, in a move certain to increase tension between Moscow and the independence-minded Baltic republics, Estonians said today.
After a bitter and rambunctious debate, the legislators voted 71 to 3 late Wednesday night to rescind Soviet constitutional articles governing the draft. Angered by the proposal, 27 pro-Moscow deputies refused to take part in the vote.
Military service has become one of the most contentious issues between Moscow and the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as they seek to regain the independence they lost in 1940. 
Stalin forcibly annexed them to the Soviet Union after concluding a nonaggression treaty with Nazi Germany that included secret protocols dividing Europe into spheres of influence. Gorbachev's Warning to U.S. The Kremlin's attempts to press the Baltic republics to abandon their calls for independence have provoked words of warning and caution from many Western countries, including the United States.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev warned today that if the United States continued to preach to Moscow about its policy toward Lithuania, relations between the two countries could suffer.
Speaking to a delegation of seven United States Senators, who asked the Soviet leader to comment on his policy toward the breakaway republic, Mr. Gorbachev said Lithuania's provocative actions - declaring independence and suspending the Soviet Constitution on March 11 - had caused the current crisis, the official Soviet press agency Tass said.
The United States Senate and Congress have passed resolutions urging President Bush to recognize independent Lithuania as soon as possible. In a two-hour meeting with Mr. Gorbachev today, the Senate delegation repeated that the use of force in Lithuania would seriously damage United States-Soviet relations, the delegation leader, George J. Mitchell, Democrat of Maine, said at a news conference here.
 
'Political Methods Are Better'
Tass said Mr. Gorbachev responded to the Senators by saying that ''we do not need to be convinced that political methods are better.''
''Not everything depends on us, however,'' said Mr. Gorbachev, whose Administration has been bristling lately at American warnings about Soviet tactics in the Baltic republics. ''And Senators, like Americans in general, should realize this and avoid giving lectures. They might prompt resentment in our society, affecting Soviet-American relations.''
 
Routes to End of Soviet Rule
Moscow says that any republic has the right to leave the Soviet Union through a new law on secession that establishes various steps for the procedure. But all three Baltic republics insist that since they never legally joined the Soviet Union, they do not need to follow Soviet procedures to leave.
The Lithuanian and Estonian Parliaments have each, through different means, declared Soviet rule invalid on their territories and say they are in the process of re-establishing their independent statehood. The Latvian Parliament, which is scheduled to convene May 3, is expected to make a similar move.
Caught up in the political maneuverings over independence are thousands of young Baltic men who are refusing to be conscripted into the Soviet Army or are deserting their posts before their terms are completed.
Military officials and Kremlin leaders have threatened to prosecute young men who fail to fulfill their mandatory military obligations. Organizations in all three republics have sprung up to support and protect young men who refuse to serve in the Soviet military because they consider it an occupying army and who are often harassed by fellow soldiers who resent the independence drives in the Baltics.
 
Tug-of-War Over Soldiers
A group called Geneva 49 was established in Estonia in October, and has so far registered more than 3,500 men who have left their units or are refusing to answer their call to the draft or to retraining.
Soviet leaders are particularly incensed by moves to evade army service - and by official support for such actions by the Baltic republics - because they consider it a serious violation of national security and military prestige.
Moscow and Lithuania waged a tug-of-war over Lithuanian soldiers who abandoned their army service and were given refuge by a special parliamentary commission there. The Kremlin's most dramatic show of force in Lithuania, the sending of more than 100 tanks and military vehicles through Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, last month, came on the day of a deadline the military had set demanding that deserters and draft dodgers turn themselves in.
Several days after the deadline had passed, armed soldiers broke into two hospitals where some of the young men had been hiding and arrested them. Lithuanian officials say the military continues to search for the young Lithuanian soldiers.
 
Estonia Outlaws Soviet Draft
The Estonian Parliament went ahead with its decision outlawing the draft despite Moscow's moves againsts army evaders in Lithuania and despite a visit to the republic on Saturday by First Deputy Defense Minister Konstantin Kochetov, who insisted that the spring draft proceed as planned in Estonia.
The new Estonian law states that, as a result of Parliament's decision March 30 declaring Soviet sovereignty over Estonia illegal and announcing the beginning of a transitional period to independence, ''compulsory service in the Soviet Army is not lawful'' in the republic.
''It is a most logical step on our road to independence,'' said Lennart Meri, a leader of the Estonian independence movement and an adviser to the Estonian Government. ''A person cannot be forced to serve in the army that has occupied his country and that he is trying to be free of.''
The new law goes into effect immediately, in the midst of the current spring call-up for the Soviet military.
Tass condemned the law, saying it ''prods hundreds of youth to violate the Soviet law on universal military service and the U.S.S.R. Constitution.''
 
Estonians to Meet With Kremlin
A delegation of Estonian officials, headed by President Arnold Ruutel, is scheduled to meet in Moscow on Saturday with Kremlin officials for talks on the republic's course to independence.
The Estonian Parliament was also informed today that the new Estonian Prime Minister Edgar Savisaar, a leader of the popular front and a former minister of the state planning commission, would meet with the Soviet Prime Minister, Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, sometime next week.
In further defiance of Moscow's demand that they curb independence campaigns in their republics, the three Baltic Prime Ministers signed an agreement today to form a common Baltic market.
The treaty, adopted and signed at a meeting today in the Vilnius, includes an agreement to band together in their relations with the Soviet Union and in forming economic ties with foreign countries and calls for each republic to issue its own currency.
The Kremlin has specifically warned against many of the actions the Prime Ministers agreed to, such as starting independent monetary systems.

GRAPHIC: photo: Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet President, meeting yesterday with Senator George J. Mitchell, the majority leader, at the Kremlin. Mr. Gorbachev was quoted as telling a delegation of seven American Senators that the economic crisis is ''the most critical stage of perestroika.'' At left was an interpreter. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BALTIC STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ESTONIA (94%); LITHUANIA (94%); LATVIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); ESTONIA; LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT, MILITARY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CONGRESSIONAL TOURS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE J MITCHELL (51%); 



302 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AT G.O.P. HIGH IN BLACK APPROVAL

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
After more than a generation of unswerving loyalty to the Democratic Party and its leaders, black Americans have given George Bush the highest level of sustained approval for any Republican President in 30 years, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll and a series of follow-up interviews.
Many blacks make it clear that their approval largely reflects a feeling of relief that Mr. Bush has given them no reason to oppose him. Blacks say they find the President a vast improvement over his predecessor, Ronald Reagan.
''He's fair, compared to the last one we had,'' said Lawson Kilgore, a storeroom clerk in the Cincinnati area.
 
Approval Rate Put at 56%
Mr. Kilgore was among the 56 percent of black Americans in the latest survey who said they approved of the job Mr. Bush was doing as President. Shortly after the American invasion of Panama in December, a move that was widely popular among almost all Americans, 70 percent of blacks said they approved of his work. 
The survey is the fourth consecutive New York Times/CBS News Poll in the last six months in which a majority of blacks said they approved of Mr. Bush's handling of his job. In the latest survey, 26 percent of blacks said they disapproved of the job he was doing.
In the survey, which was conducted by telephone from March 30 through April 2, 1,515 adult Americans, including 403 blacks, were questioned. The margin of sampling error for the entire survey is plus or minus three percentage points; for blacks, it is five percentage points.
After noticing Mr. Bush's strong stand among blacks in the last three polls, The Times and CBS News took two extra steps in this latest survey to delve black opinion. Several questions were added to the survey and a larger than usual number of blacks were included in the survey to increase the accuracy of the findings.
 
Approval Remains Tentative
Even though Mr. Bush was elected in a campaign that Democrats said used racially divisive themes, Mr. Bush's approval in office has slipped below 40 percent among blacks only once - last May. It has remained above 50 percent since his speech last September declaring war on drugs.
But in the poll and in follow-up interviews, blacks made it clear their approval remains tentative.
''Definitely lukewarm,'' said Joanne Clark, a schoolteacher in Camden, N.J. Ms. Clark told the poll takers she approved of the job Mr. Bush was doing. But in a follow-up interview she disclosed the complexity of her attitude toward the President.
''It's not negative so I guess it is pretty good,'' she said. ''I wouldn't actually say I think he's doing a good job in any particular area. It's just I had such a low opinion before he took over the Presidency. I guess since he hasn't gotten us into any major wars and the economy hasn't completely fallen through, I guess he's doing a good job.''
One-third of the blacks in the survey, and 46 percent of whites, said their opinion of Mr. Bush had improved since he became President.
 
'Unbelievably Deceptive'
Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic national chairman, said Mr. Bush's high standing represented a failure on the part of the Democratic Party to demonstrate that Mr. Bush's reassuring words were not matched by action.
''He says, 'I'm the education President,' '' the chairman said of Mr. Bush. ''He says, 'I'm the environmental President.' The guy's unbelievable -and unbelievably deceptive.''
Both in general and on specific issues, blacks are more sceptical than whites, who approve Mr. Bush's handling of his job 75 to 14 percent. Blacks divide evenly, for example, on whether Mr. Bush is doing a good job handling the war on drugs, while whites approve 56 percent to 35 percent.
''I dont think he's doing enough to fight drugs,'' Ms. Clark said.''I don't think he's doing enough for the environment. At the same time, I don't feel any great hatred toward him. He's O.K. as long as he doesn't do anything really negative.''
Modern Republican Presidents have occasionally achieved majority support among blacks, but only for a short while. The last Republican President to sustain such support was Dwight D. Eisenhower, who maintained an approval rate of 50 percent or greater among blacks in Gallup Polls from 1955 through the start of the 1960 Presidential campaign, in which John F. Kennedy, made several gestures of support to blacks.
 
Republicans Hope for a Shift
Republicans have been expressing the hope that blacks' approval of Mr. Bush is the begining of an important shift in political attitudes, a weakening of the most solid part of the Democratic base.
Democrats remain sceptical that Republicans can make inroads among blacks. In the survey, only one out of 10 blacks said they would probably vote for Mr. Bush against the Democratic candidate in 1992, but another 20 percent said it would depend on the candidates.
If they do vote for Mr. Bush, it would be a considerable breakthrough for Republicans. On Election Day in 1988, 12 percent of black voters said they cast their ballots for Mr. Bush over Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic candidate, according to The New York Times/ CBS News survey of voters as they left the polling places.
Interviews with blacks suggest that Mr. Bush is benefiting from an unhappiness with the Democratic Party in which they and their parents and often their grandparents have placed so many hopes.
 
Attitudes Seen as Changing
''It's changing,'' Mr. Kilgore, the storeroom clerk, said of black attitudes toward the Democrats. ''I've been a Democrat just about all my life,'' said Mr. Kilgore, who is 54 years old. ''They don't seem to be doing what they say they're going to do. They're not putting blacks in positions they say they're going to get. They say, 'We've got you now.' They take you for granted.''
Democrats say these sentiments are mistaken, but former Gov. Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey, a Republican, said attitudes like Mr. Kilgore's presented an enormous opportunity for the Republican Party.
''They're trapped between a party that takes them for granted and a party that thought it had no chance,'' said Mr. Kean, who was more succesful than virtually any recent Republican candidate for major office at winning black votes. ''You have a real desire out there for an alternative - to have the same chance everybody else has.''
The former Governor said the key was for the Republican Party to clearly embrace civil rights, at which point it could speak to black voters on other issues pretty much as it would speak to any other group of voters.
Indeed, when asked to identify themselves as liberal, moderate or conservative, black voters divide almost exactly in the same proportions as whites - about 20 percent liberal, 40 percent moderate and 30 percent conservative.
 
Some Interesting Patterns
Among blacks, there are several interesting demographic patterns. For example, the best educated blacks have both the most favorable opinion of Mr. Bush and the most unfavorable opinion of Mr. Reagan. Younger blacks are more likely than older blacks to express approval of the Republican Party, although in all age groups the Democratic Party remains the overwhelming favorite.
Many blacks seem to have forgotten or have forgiven Mr. Bush for some elements of his 1988 campaign, particularly his use of advertising involving Willie Horton, the black convicted murderer who walked away from a Massachusetts prison furlough program and raped a woman in Maryland.
Lawrence Bobo, a professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin, suggested that in the minds of many blacks the campaign was the responsibility of people like Lee Atwater, now the Republican national chairman, rather than Mr. Bush himself.
Mr. Bush's test, Professor Bobo said, will be what happens on civil rights issues, not what has happened. ''Bush hasn't had a strong test on these issues and he hasn't done anything seriously damaging of the sort that seemed to happen repeatedly in the Reagan Adminstration,'' the professor said, adding that he would expect a drop in Mr. Bush's approval ratingwhen ''a clear-cut stand comes on these affirmative action issues.''
 
A Juxtaposition of Views
This may occur if Mr. Bush vetoes legislation that would override Supreme Court decisions limiting the reach of the courts in matters involving civil rights and affirmative action.
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has warned that the President may veto the bill, which has been approved by a Senate committee. His warning became known the same day Mr. Bush went before a dinner and spoke glowingly about how some day there would be a black President.
This juxtaposition, which infuriated some black politicians at the dinner, honoring the Joint Center for Political Studies, is also beginning to filter out to other blacks.
''On important issues, the real big important issues where it affects the minorites,'' said Ruby Tilghman, a unemployed home health care worker in West Philadelphia, ''he's doing it in a roundabout way where it doesn't look like he's aganst us, but he is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS (IN US); PUBLIC OPINION; SURVEYS AND SERIES POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICS (73%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



303 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: $2.7 Million Awarded In Aeromexico Crash

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 12

 BODY:
A Federal court awarded more than $2.7 million for damages on Wednesday to the family of a man who died with his son in the crash of an Aeromexico jet after it collided with a small plane over Southern California in 1986.
Judge Manuel L. Real of Federal District Court here ruled that the family was entitled to $2,733,666 in compensation for economic and personal losses for the deaths of Joe Guzman, 45 years old, and his son Robert, 18. The judge ruled that the family was to receive $1.7 million from the United States Government and $1 million from the estate of the pilot of the small plane, which is to be divided among the families of the victims and is unlikely to be able to provide the full amount.
A Federal jury last April held the Government, because of the actions of an air-traffic controller, and William Kramer, the small plane's pilot, equally to blame for the accident.
Mr. Guzman, a Norwalk truck driver, and his son were returning to Los Angeles from a fishing vacation in Baja California on the Aeromexico DC-9. The crash killed 66 people on the planes and 15 people on the ground in Cerritos, 20 miles southeast of Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS481211 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AEROVIAS DE MEXICO SA DE CV (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AEROMEXICO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; DAMAGE SUITS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY DAMAGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); VERDICTS (78%); DEATHS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); JUDGES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (67%); 

PERSON: REAL, MANUEL L (JUDGE); GUZMAN, JOE; GUZMAN, ROBERT JOE GUZMAN (79%); 



304 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3199 words

HEADLINE: Winners of the 1990 Pulitzer Prizes in Journalism and the Arts

 BODY:

Public Service
The Philadelphia Inquirer
The Philadelphia Inquirer was cited for distinguished public service for a series of articles by Gilbert M. Gaul that disclosed major shortcomings in Federal regulation of the nation's blood banks. The five articles told how, beginning in the early 1980's, the Food and Drug Administration reduced its inspections of the country's 2,000 blood banks and commercial plasma centers at the very time that acquired immune-deficiency syndrome was beginning to threaten the blood supply. The articles led to the opening of a major Congressional investigation into the blood industry late last year. Mr. Gaul, 38 years old, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1979 for local reporting. 
 
The Washington (N.C.)
Daily News
The Washington (N.C.) Daily News, a family-owned newspaper with an editorial staff of nine people, was cited for ''meritorious public service'' for more than 25 articles revealing the contamination with carcinogens of the municipal water supply, which local officials had knowingly concealed for eight years. The disclosures by the 81-year-old paper, which serves a town of 9,000 people in eastern North Carolina, led state officials to require that all municipalities test their drinking water and make the results public. Previously, only communities of 10,000 or more were required to test. The articles, written by Betty Gray, 35 years old, and Mike Voss, 32, are also believed to have contributed heavily to the electoral defeats last year of the mayor and three of the five city councilmen.
 
General News Reporting
The San Jose (Calif.)
Mercury News
The newspaper's staff won for its detailed coverage of the Oct. 17, 1989, earthquake in the San Francisco Bay area and its aftermath. Robert Ingle, the executive editor, said 300 reporters, photographers and editors were involved in the quake coverage. Within five hours of the quake, the paper published stories, photographs and graphics that occupied the first 12 pages without any advertising. The most intense coverage occurred during the five days that followed the quake, Mr. Ingle said. During that time, he said, the paper published 70 pages devoted entirely to the quake.
 
Investigative Reporting
Lou Kilzer
and Chris Ison
The Minneapolis-St. Paul
Star Tribune
Lou Kilzer, 39 years old, and Chris Ison, 32, won for a two-part series that exposed a network of local citizens who had familial and business links with members of the St. Paul Fire Department and who profited financially from fires, some of suspicious origin. Their articles led to the suspension of the Fire Chief and to Federal investigations into the relationships. Mr. Kilzer is a Yale graduate who joined The Star Tribune in 1987 after working as a reporter and editor for The Denver Post. At The Post, he was the lead reporter on a series on missing children that won the 1986 Pulitzer Public Service award for the paper. Mr. Ison, a graduate of the University of Minnesota, worked for The Duluth (Mich.) News-Tribune before joining The Star Tribune in 1986 as a St. Paul city-government reporter.
 
Explanatory Journalism
Steve Coll
and David A. Vise
The Washington Post
Steve Coll, 31 years old, and David A. Vise, 29, were honored for their four-part series that scrutinized the Securities and Exchange Commission and the way it has been affected by the policies of John S. R. Shad, chairman of the commission from 1981 to 1987. The purpose of the series was to throw light on the workings of an important and complex agency that is little understood by the public. Mr. Coll, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Occidental College in Los Angeles, joined The Post as a reporter in 1985 and served as New York financial correspondent from 1987 to 1989. Last summer, he joined the paper's foreign staff and is now the correspondent in New Delhi. Mr. Vise, a magna cum laude graduate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, joined The Post in 1984. A national business reporter, on Monday Mr. Vise will become the newspaper's local business editor.
 
Specialized Reporting
Tamar Stieber
The Albuquerque Journal
Tamar Stieber's articles noted the connections between a rare blood disorder and a nonprescription drug, L-tryptophan, a dietary supplement used by some to treat insomnia, premenstrual syndrome and depression. The drug has since been recalled by the Federal Government, and physicians have credited the articles for helping identify many cases of the illness that would have gone undetected and for saving time, money and suffering. Her first article was based on a tip from a Journal news stringer about four friends who were suffering unusual cases of the flu, two of whom were taking L-tryptophan. Ms. Stieber, 34 years old, did not take her first full-time reporting job until 1987, when she joined the twice-weekly Sonoma, Calif., Index-Tribune. She has been at The Journal since May 1989.
 
National Reporting
Ross Anderson
Bill Dietrich
Mary Ann Gwinn
and Eric Nalder
The Seattle Times
The four reporters were part of a team of nearly 35 Times reporters, artists and photographers covering the Exxon Valdez oil spill and its aftermath - a story that the newspaper regarded as especially important because of Seattle's ties to Alaska, said David Boardman, an assistant city editor. The Times avoided ''clinical'' reporting and ''very much told it as a human story,'' he said. Mr. Anderson, 42 years old, is The Times's chief political reporter, but is on leave writing a book about Alaska fishermen and the oil spill. Mr. Dietrich, 38, has has covered the environment since returning from a Nieman Fellowship at Harvard University in 1988. Ms. Gwinn, 38, a feature writer for the newspaper's Sunday magazine, has worked at The Times for seven years. Mr. Nalder, 43, has been the newspaper's chief investigative reporter since 1983.
 
International Reporting
Nicholas D. Kristof
and Sheryl WuDunn
The New York Times
Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn of The New York Times won the international reporting award for their ''knowledgable'' coverage of the democracy movement in China and its subsequent suppression last spring. Mr. Kristof, the Beijing bureau chief since October 1988, and Miss WuDunn, a bureau reporter since March 1989, were cited for a series of articles chronicling the tragedy, many written under perilous circumstances after Chinese troops attacked young demonstrators near Tiananmen Square. On May 20, for example, while Mr. Kristof was describing how a throng of a million Chinese had taken to the streets to defy martial law, Miss WuDunn told of how Government troops, awed by the spectacle, were refusing to put down the protests. Mr. Kristof and Miss WuDunn, both 30 years old, are the first husband and wife team to win simultaneous Pulitzer Prizes in journalism. In 1968, Will and Ariel Durant won the Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction.
 
Feature Writing
Dave Curtin
Colorado Springs (Colo.)
Gazette Telegraph
Mr. Curtin, a police and general assignment reporter, won for his feature story about the rehabilitation of a family after a propane gas explosion severely disfigured three members. ''I'm in a state of shock and disbelief,'' said Mr. Curtin, who is 34 years old. ''I guess that's what everybody always says, but it's the truth.'' In writing the story, Mr. Curtin followed the father and two of his children, 4 and 6 years old, through their hospitalization. He watched as the children struggled to cope with the reaction of their schoolmates when they returned to school. He ate with the family and slept one night in their home in an effort to understand their pain. ''The fact is, disfiguring burns scare people,'' Mr. Curtin said.
 
Commentary
Jim Murray
The Los Angeles Times
Jim Murray, who won a Pulitzer for his sports columns, has been documenting the egos and emotions of the athletes and characters who people the sports world for more than three decades. He was covering Hollywood for Time magazine, lunching with the likes of Marilyn Monroe and Jack Benny, when Henry Luce decided to launch the sports magazine that eventually became Sports Illustrated. Mr. Murray, now 70 years old, was on the staff at the beginning. ''There weren't very many people at Time who knew anything about sports,'' he recalled. ''I was one of maybe six or eight.'' Mr. Murray has received 14 National Sportswriter of the Year awards, 12 of them consecutively, for the sports columns that have run in The Los Angeles Times since 1961.
 
Criticism
Allan Temko
The San Francisco Chronicle
Allan Temko won for architecture criticism that blends social commentary with analysis of buildings and the environment. Among Mr. Temko's pieces were an argument for preserving a historic rail station threatened by demolition and a set of proposals for the Presidio, a large plot of land abutting the San Francisco Bay where the Army is closing a post. Mr. Temko, 66 years old, was born in New York City and attended Columbia University and the Sorbonne; he has worked for The Chronicle since 1961. He advised President John F. Kennedy and Gov. Edmund G. (Pat) Brown of California on environmental politics.
 
Editorial Writing
Thomas J. Hylton
The Pottstown (Pa.) Mercury
The editorials that won the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished editorial writing for Mr. Hylton represent a longstanding interest in land preservation. The series of seven editorials advocating a $50 million bond issue to preserve farm land and open space in Chester County led to approval by 81 percent of the voters for the measure in a referendum last year. ''It is great to win the award, but it is more important to save the rich farm land around here from mindless development,'' Mr. Hylton said yesterday. Mr. Hylton, 41 years old, graduated from Kutztown (Pa.) State College in 1970 and joined The Mercury the following year.
 
Editorial Cartooning
Tom Toles
The Buffalo News
Tom Toles, 38 years old, who won the Pulitzer Prize for editorial cartooning, prefers to focus his artistic vision on environmental issues and on matters of economic justice, and the topics that won him the award included the savings and loan bailout, the rebellion in Tiananmen Square and the potential reunification of Germany. The particular sketch cited in the award, ''First Amendment,'' dealt with what Mr. Toles considered hypothetical restrictions that would be imposed on the exercise of free speech by a Constitutional amendment prohibiting flag burning. Since 1982, when he joined The News, his work has been syndicated by the Universal Press Syndicate.
 
Spot News Photography
The Oakland Tribune
A team of seven photographers won for their coverage of the devastation of the Bay Area earthquake of Oct. 17, 1989, particularly the collapse of the Cypress Freeway, in which 44 people died. Although The Tribune's building is just 10 blocks from the freeway, the staff got the paper out on time, said Leroy Aarons, senior vice president for news. One of the prize-winning pictures was a shot of medics lowering a victim over the railing of the freeway. That photograph was the work of Michael Macor, 33 years old, a native of Chester, Pa., who moved to the Bay Area when he was 2. Other pictures showed a victim with the rubble of the freeway in the background and a woman holding her arms aloft in a ''V'' during a memorial service. Ron Riesterer, 50, who was born in Sublimity, Ore., and joined The Tribune in 1958, directed the photo operations.
 
Feature Photography
David C. Turnley
The Detroit Free Press
David Turnley won for his portfolio documenting the year of revolutions from the massacre in the area around Tiananmen Square in China to the downfall of the Romanian leader Nicolae Ceaucescu and the demise of the Berlin Wall. Currently based in Paris, Mr. Turnley, 34, has been with The Free Press since 1980. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan and has studied at the Sorbonne. Yesterday, Mr. Turnley dedicated his prize ''to all the people I've witnessed who've put their lives on the line so their brothers and sisters can have a better life.''
 
Fiction
Oscar Hijuelos
''The Mambo Kings
Play Songs of Love''
''The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love,'' published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux, is Mr. Hijuelos's second novel, the story of two young Cuban musicians who make their way up from Havana to the grand stage of New York during the era of the mambo in 1949. The high point in the career of the fictional Castillo brothers comes when they meet Desi Arnaz and appear on the ''I Love Lucy'' show. The novel paints a portrait of the brothers, their families, their fellow musicians and lovers, and it also brings to life the sights and sounds of an era in music and unsung moment in American life. The 38-year-old novelist is a New Yorker of Cuban parentage who received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from City College of New York.
 
Drama
August Wilson
''The Piano Lesson''
Mr. Wilson's award for ''The Piano Lesson'' is his second Pulitzer Prize for drama; he won his first in 1987 for ''Fences.'' ''It adds fuel to the fire,'' Mr. Wilson said yesterday. ''It makes me want to do more work.'' Until less than a decade ago, he was a little-known poet; then the manuscript of a play he had written was discovered by the director Lloyd Richards at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Connecticut. That play was ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' which opened on Broadway in the 1984-85 season and won much critical praise. ''Ma Rainey'' was followed on Broadway by ''Fences'' - which won the Tony Award for best play as well as the Pulitzer - and ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone.'' They and ''The Piano Lesson'' - the story of a dispute between a brother and sister over a piano that has involved their family since the days of slavery - are part of a series of plays that Mr. Wilson is writing, one for each decade, on the life of black Americans in the 20th century. The newest, ''Two Trains Running,'' is now at the Yale Repertory Theater. Mr. Wilson, who will be 45 years old on April 27, lives in St. Paul, Minn.
 
History
Stanley Karnow
''In Our Image:
America's Empire in the Philippines''
Mr. Karnow won for his study of the relations over more than three centuries between the Filipinos and, first, the Spaniards, then the Americans, and finally, among themselves in governing the islands. ''In Our Image: America's Empire in the Philippines'' published by Random House, includes portraits of colonial grandees, American Civil War soldiers and corrupt politicians. In a long career as a foreign correspondent, Mr. Karnow, 65 years old, has reported from Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. Mr. Karnow's books include ''Southeast Asia,'' ''Mao and China: From Revolution to Revolution'' and ''Vietnam: A History.'' Mr. Karnow was born in New York City and lives in Potomac, Md.
 
Biography
Sebastian de Grazia
''Machiavelli in Hell''
''I like the man,'' said Sebastian de Grazia yesterday, speaking of Machiavelli. ''I like the texts he's written. And I like the way he comported himself.'' Mr. de Grazia's biography seeks to portray a more complex man than is commonly imagined and draws extensively on Machiavelli's own words. Not just his political works are quoted, but also letters, plays, and sonnets. ''No one thought of Machiavelli as being the life of the party; yet he was,'' Mr. de Grazia said. ''He could be very funny.'' In the book published by the Princeton University Press. The author helps set the personal tone of the book with his decision to address his subject by his first name: Niccolo. Mr. de Grazia, 72, received his Ph.D from the University of Chicago, served with the O.S.S. during World War II and has taught political philosophy at Rutgers since 1962. Given his admiration for his subject, why then the title of ''Machiavelli in Hell''? It is a question that Mr. de Grazia has been asked before. ''I did not consign him to hell,'' he says, laughing. ''If anything, I helped let him out of it.''
 
Poetry
Charles Simic
''The World Doesn't End''
When Charles Simic's high school friends in Oak Park, Ill., began writing poetry, he thought they were sissies. ''I wanted to show them I could do it better in five minutes,'' he said yesterday. ''But I couldn't. And I got hooked.'' Mr. Simic, 52 years old, has been writing poetry ever since, including the eight years he spent working his way through night school at New York University. ''The World Doesn't End,'' published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, is a collection of prose poems, which Mr. Simic described as an underappreciated form. The images in his work are both accessible and fantastic. A dead man climbs from a scaffold and orders two beers - one for him and one for his head. A woman uses a severed thumb as a red stub of lipstick. ''We were so poor I had to take the place of the bait in the mouse trap,'' one of his poems begins. Mr. Simic, who calls himself a fan of garlic and pigs' feet, was born in Yugoslavia and moved to the United States when he was 15.
 
General Nonfiction
Dale Maharidge
and Michael Williamson
''And Their Children
After Them''
''People on welfare and homeless people weren't anything shocking or new, since I grew up in a lot of foster homes,'' Michael Williamson, a 33-year-old photographer with The Sacramento Bee, said yesterday. He and Dale Maharidge, a 32-year-old Bee reporter, ''wanted to go to the roots of poverty and we'd both read 'Let us Now Praise Famous Men''' - James Agee and Walker Evans' influential 1941 book about Alabama sharecroppers. To produce their book, ''And Their Children After Them'' (Pantheon), ''we decided to go back and find the descendants of the people in Agee and Evans's book, and we found 128, nearly all of them,'' he said. ''Most were still poor, and 95 percent were still in Alabama.'' Since joining the Bee in 1980, Mr. Maharidge has reported on social issues in the United States, Latin America and the Philippines. Mr. Williamson's photographic assignments have ranged from Super Bowl games to the wars of Central America.
 
Music
Mel Powell
'Duplicates'
''There might be some difficulty thinking of this work as a toe-tapper,'' the composer Mel Powell said in a lecture before the premiere of his '' a Concerto for Two Pianos and Orchestra. Mr. Powell, a 67-year-old composer and pianist, has been head of the composition department at the California Institute of the Arts, in Valencia, since 1969. Born in New York, he began his career as a jazz pianist and arranger for Benny Goodman and Glenn Miller. But after studying composition with Paul Hindemith at Yale University, he turned toward a more abstruse compositional style, which - depending on the work - takes in 12-tone writing, semi-improvisatory forms and electronic music. ''Duplicates'' is a labyrinthine, pointillistic three-movement score in which the solo pianists and the orchestra expand upon each other's thematic material. It was given its premiere by the Los Angeles Philharmonic on Jan. 26, 1990.

GRAPHIC: photos: A portrait of a Romanian man venting years of grief at the hands of the Ceausescu regime was among the photographs that earned David C. Turnley of The Detroit Free Press the 1990 Pulitzer Prize for feature photography. (David C. Turnley); Roy H. Williams's picture of a woman being rescued from the lower deck of the Cyprus Street viaduct after the San Francisco earthquake helped the photography staff at The Oakland Tribune win the 1990 Pulitzer Prize for spot news photography. (Roy H. Williams)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ROMANIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (91%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; WASHINGTON (NC) DAILY NEWS; SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS; MINNEAPOLIS-ST PAUL STAR TRIBUNE; WASHINGTON POST; SEATTLE TIMES (NEWSPAPER); OAKLAND TRIBUNE; BUFFALO NEWS (NEWSPAPER); POTTSTOWN (PA) MERCURY; SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE; LOS ANGELES TIMES; COLORADO SPRINGS (COLO) GAZETTE TELEGRAPH; NEW YORK TIMES; DETROIT FREE PRESS

SUBJECT: PULITZER PRIZES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); BLOOD SUPPLY (90%); BLOOD BANKS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NEWS REPORTING (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARSON (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); MAYORS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); WATER QUALITY (66%); CARCINOGENS (53%); 

PERSON: ISON, CHRIS; KILZER, LOU; COLL, STEVE; VISE, DAVID A; ANDERSON, ROSS; DIETRICH, BILL; GWINN, MARY ANN; NALDER, ERIC; TOLES, TOM; HYLTON, THOMAS J; TEMKO, ALLAN; TEMKO, ALLAN; MURRAY, JIM; CURTIN, DAVE; KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; WUDUNN, SHERYL; TURNLEY, DAVID C; WILSON, AUGUST; HIJUELOS, OSCAR; KARNOW, STANLEY; DE GRAZIA, SEBASTIAN; SIMIC, CHARLES; MAHARIDGE, DALE; WILLIAMSON, MICHAEL; POWELL, MEL ROBERT P INGLE (50%); 



305 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Stop the Shell Game With Pension Funds;
Mostly Employee Money

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The funding of defined benefit plans to which employer and employees both contribute is a more complicated issue than ''A Bad Bill Where a Fix Would Do'' (editorial, March 26) recognizes. In particular, it is misleading to imply that overfunding of such plans is a matter of ''excess money'' that employers ''mistakenly put in.'' 
High interest rates during the last decade have made some plans so overfunded that employers have not put any money into them for years. Funds nevertheless continue to accumulate because of employee contributions and interest on past contributions. This raises a basic question, which you fail to address: Why should employers have the right to lay hands on funds that to a large extent represent earnings on employee contributions? What you refer to as excess money is the result, for the most part, of what employees have allowed to be taken out of their pay for their own financial benefit; they certainly didn't hand it over for employers to use as a kitty to build a surplus for later confiscation.
An employer is entitled to ''excess money'' resulting from its own contributions, but when employer contributions are no longer being made, it is shocking to think that the employer can appropriate earnings that exist only because of employee contributions.
 
MERRITT ABRASH
 Troy, N.Y., March 27, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS; LABOR DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: ABRASH, MERRITT



306 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Stop the Shell Game With Pension Funds;
A Better Plan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your editorial of March 26 urges Congress to make some compromise on the withdrawal of funds from defined benefit pension plans. But defined benefit plans are themselves the major culprit in the underlying problem. Defined benefit plans are always subject to the possibility of underfunding or overfunding. 
Worse yet is the Government's attempt to insure this type of pension through the federally sponsored Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The possibility exists that any significant number of defaults will lead to a Treasury bailout that will make the savings and loan association crisis seem pale.
Defined benefit plans promise a pension based on some arcane or arbitrary formula, typically something like 2 percent for every year of service times the final year's compensation. The final pension payments, the projected earnings on the pension fund assets and the funding required are always subject to uncertainty.
The attempt to insure these plans is a risky proposition because the ability to make the payments may rest on the credit soundness of the sponsoring corporation or on its ability to continue in business. If not, the Government insurance or eventually the Treasury may have to pick up the tab.
A basic cure would be a policy encouraging corporations, states and local governments to convert to defined contribution plans. In a defined contribution plan, the company periodically places an agreed percentage of the employees' compensation in the pension fund. At retirement, the total of contributions plus accumulated earnings is turned into an annuity. With a defined contribution plan, there can be no problem of underfunding or overfunding. What you see is what you get.
The required administration of a defined contribution plan is minimal compared with a defined benefit plan. There is no problem of portability in a defined contribution plan or any problem, if circumstances should require, of making an early payout. Most of all, there is no possible imputed liability or financial risk for the sponsoring corporation, private agency or governmental unit. The need for a Federal insurance program would be minimal.
Moreover, defined contribution plans represent a true source of savings and a direct investment of capital in our system. The funds can be placed in fixed return securities or in equities and flow into productive enterprise.
Employees can receive quarterly statements on their accounts and see how well their investments are doing. The performance of the portfolio sets the final pension. There is hardly any better method of involving the employee-citizen in the financial soundness of the economy.
 
ELI SCHWARTZ
Professor of Economics
Lehigh University
 Bethlehem, Pa., March 27, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); 

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (93%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BAILOUTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PENSION REFORM (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, ELI (PROF)



307 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Against the Grain

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Soviet Union, which has always promptly paid hard cash for the commodities it purchases in the West, seems to have fallen almost one half-billion dollars behind in payments due to grain exporters in the past month.
I say ''seems to'' because nobody wants to talk publicly about this unprecedented payment delay - not the grain companies, which do not want to embarrass our largest customer (America sold 21 million metric tons of wheat and corn to the U.S.S.R. in the last marketing year), and not the Soviet Union, which wants to conceal this part of its economic desperation.
However, as a result of the mountain of accounts receivable, several international grain dealers have quietly stopped selling to the Soviet Union. It means that Mikhail Gorbachev's plan to placate angry Soviet consumers by putting bread on their tables is now threatened. 
His purchasing agents have turned to Japan. When Continental Grain declined to sell any more on credit (''We're being more prudent in bidding for business'' is the way a company spokesman reluctantly puts it), the Japanese bought and paid for American grain and resold it to Moscow, hoping to be paid in six months or a year - in effect, acting as the Soviets' risk-taking banker.
What's happening here? Are the Soviets going broke?
Moscow's suppliers in America say no, that the delay must be merely a bureaucratic mixup. In the past, Moscow's export arm bought the grain with the backing of the Soviet Union's central bank. But now, as a result of perestroika's housecleaning of bank officials, the excuse is given that the necessary documentation has been mislaid, or not filled out - or the banker has been fired and nobody sits at that desk anymore.
Without the guarantee from the Soviet central bank, the sellers of grain cannot get financing to carry the Soviets from American banks. As a result, grain shipments have been curtailed; ''We got paid, finally, the other day,'' says one U.S. grain shipper, ''but most of the other guys are still being told the check is in the mail.'' ABC News's Stephen Aug reported early this week that the Du Pont company, our largest producer of agricultural chemicals, was not being paid on time by the normally punctual Russians. American suppliers have accepted Moscow's explanation that the delays were due only to perestroika's necessary decentralization.
The great grain dunning raises the stakes substantially. Although the excuse is that Boris the Banker was fired and his local replacement cannot find the paperwork, the fact is that the Soviets are systematically seeking new deals permitting six-month and one-year payment delays. That spells big credit trouble. Here's another unremarked story that helps form the background to the hurry-up Memorial Day summit conference: The same Soviet economic desperation was at the root of last month's sudden selloff of a billion dollars in gold bullion.
In case you missed it, the price of gold dropped on March 26 from $393 to $370 - not exactly a crash, but an unusual tumble. At a loss for a reason, some analysts blamed the sale of gold in London by Saudi Arabia to pay for British weapons.
The Saudis did the selling, all right, but I'm told on good authority they acted in Switzerland as brokers for the Soviet Union.
Four days before the gold dumping, Edward Gostev, deputy chairman of the U.S.S.R. Bank for Foreign Economic Affairs, appeared before the Gold Institute's annual meeting in Arizona. He said confidently that Soviet sales of gold on the world market easily covered its grain purchases, and predicted that the Soviet Union would soon publish its secret figures on gold reserves and production.
That was intended to firm up world demand for gold as the Soviets prepared to sell. Gold bugs say the maneuver was only partly successful; the Gostev speech was not widely reported until after the tumble, and the Soviet sale was not entirely at the top of the market. At any rate, the hard currency realized by the dumping did not come in time to prevent the black eye suffered by the Soviet credit rating among grain exporters.
What does Moscow's market manipulation and international check-kiting have to do with the Memorial Day summit meeting?
It means that the recent turnabout by the Gorbachev Government from half-command economy to market-systems-ahead is purely the result of necessity. It means that the Soviets have never been more vulnerable to pressure: quickly to pull troops out of Eastern Europe, to end the subsidy of Fidel Castro, to free the captive Baltic nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: GRAIN; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); AGRICULTURE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TRENDS (60%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; SAFIRE, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



308 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Time for Change

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
To return to the United States from a visit to South Africa is to experience a drastic difference in political climates. In South Africa, the most profound assumptions of the society are changing. In the United States, the political system is frozen.
In Cape Town a woman said: ''Nothing's happened, only the whole psychology of the country has changed.'' 
By that she meant that the foundations of apartheid are still in place; the African majority cannot vote. But everything is open to challenge now, and there is a palpable expectation that the basic rules of political life will change.
To say that fundamentals are being challenged is really to say that something important has changed in South Africa. For dissent has been brutally suppressed over the last 30 years. Anti-apartheid leaders were jailed and silenced. Until a few months ago it was a crime to publish the words of Nelson Mandela.
Now South African television, for so long the slavish voice of the state, regularly reports the views of Mr. Mandela and the African National Congress. Newspapers publish exposes of official wrongdoing for which, only recently, they would have been closed.
President de Klerk can only have opened up the stifling atmosphere of South African politics with the aim of going on to substantive change. Moreover, he has broken the power of the securocrats who were a major obstacle to change - the generals who had gradually taken over state political functions under his predecessor, P. W. Botha.
Mr. de Klerk's leadership is crucial. But the white public is also readier for change than it has ever been. Not only businessmen, now, are aware of the economic cost of apartheid. A considerable part of the Afrikaner community has come to feel uncomfortable with the status quo of moral opprobrium and international isolation.
Whether negotiation can bridge the gap between black aspirations and white desire for assurances about the future is not so clear. But there is the sense today in South Africa of a society at last trying to come to grips with its real problems.
The United States, by contrast, seems determined to close its eyes to the realities that menace its future. That is true of the Government and of the public.
American society has problems as serious today as at any time since the Depression. Savings and investment have declined; we rely on foreign capital and then, illogically, sputter when that capital acquires U.S. assets. Our infrastructure of roads and bridges and other public facilities is crumbling.
It is an ill-educated society in a world where education is increasingly essential. The United States, alone among developed countries, has no national system of health insurance; 31 million Americans have no medical insurance.
A vast underclass mocks America's reputation as a just society. Homeless men and women huddle on the fanciest streets of our cities. An expensive restaurant has a notice on the wall headed ''We all need food and shelter''; it lists places where people in need can get ''a free meal or a place to sleep.''
On these and similar problems President Bush offers no leadership worth mentioning. His economic remedy is a cut in the capital gains tax, irrelevant at best. He has nothing of substance to suggest on the country's corrupting social ills.
Mr. Bush has shown considerable skill and determination in foreign affairs. But at home he is determined only to avoid the hard problems. Why? Because he is unwilling to challenge the prevailing public mood of antipathy to government.
As Felix Rohatyn writes in the current New York Review of Books, this country is still mesmerized by the doctrines it bought from Ronald Reagan: The taxes are too high and government is the enemy. They prevent any action to break the political immobilism, to end the obsession with deficit finagling, to deal with our national problems.
It takes leadership for a country to face the need for change. This country has no leadership: not in the White House and not in the opposition party.
South Africa has an infinitely greater burden to overcome. Its legacy of history is bitter. The society is riven. Change involves enormous risks of factionalism and violence. But there is a sense of possibility, and what a difference that makes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (69%); 



309 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Changes Urged to Cut Delays at Airports

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
Alarmed by the growing number of flight delays in the New York area, airlines are pressuring the Government to revise the region's air traffic control system, much the way it did in Chicago last year. But some of the proposed changes are already meeting resistance from controllers.
Flight delays rose 111 percent at La Guardia Airport and 52 percent at Kennedy International Airport last year. Flight delays rose 17 percent at Newark International Airport last year. Nationally, delays rose 13 percent. 
The delays have continued to rise this year, with a 67 percent increase at Kennedy and an 18 percent increase at La Guardia over the same period last year.
Federal Aviation Administration officials attributed the rise last year to unusually severe weather, occasional computer failures and a shortage of fully trained controllers. Officials said this year's rise in delays at Kennedy was partly due to an increased number of international flights.
The crash of Avianca Flight 52 in Cove Neck, L.I., on Jan. 25 raised concern that the delays may pose a safety risk as well as an inconvenience for thousands of passengers. The Avianca jet, a Boeing 707 on its way to Kennedy, apparently ran out of fuel after circling for almost 90 minutes.
Aviation officials were able to reduce delays in Chicago by rerouting planes and conducting an aggressive campaign to recruit more controllers.
 
Delays Are Costly
''The changes in Chicago made a difference,'' said Robert Aaronson, president of the Air Transport Association, the industry trade group. ''We haven't seen that kind of additional horsepower applied to New York.''
Mr. Aaronson, a former director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, last month urged the administrator of the aviation agency, James B. Busey, to make the New York delays a national priority. Representatives from the airline trade group met yesterday with officials from the aviation agency to discuss the problem.
The delays are costly for the airlines, both in terms of extra fuel expenses and lost consumer confidence. One airline, the Trump Shuttle, began offering passengers a certificate for a weekend flight, without charge, for a companion if a flight is delayed more than 15 minutes.
In 1987 the aviation agency made major changes in flight paths in the New York region to try to reduce delays. The changes this time are likely to be more subtle. ''We're tweaking the system,'' said John Walker, assistant manager of air traffic for the agency's eastern region.
Almost a decade after President Ronald Reagan dismissed 11,400 striking controllers, the region is still short of fully trained controllers, even though the number of flights has increased 58 percent. Controllers are reluctant to move to New York because of the intense pressure and the high cost of living.
Last year the aviation agency began offering 20 percent bonuses to controllers who move to a number of cities, including New York and Chicago, as part of a five-year test program. But only a handful of controllers, about 30, have made the move or are planning to move to New York. ''We're not seeing a large number of people rushing to come here,'' Mr. Walker said.
 
Objecting to Inexperience
The airlines have proposed that in addition to trying to persuade veteran controllers to transfer to New York, the aviation agency should also assign more newly hired controllers to New York. The controllers' union, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, opposes the idea, saying there are already too many inexperienced controllers in New York. Barry Krasner, a union representative, said, ''They're being thrust into a world they don't belong in yet.''
Controllers also objected to the airlines' proposal that the aviation agency hire a private organization to help train controllers in New York, freeing senior controllers to work the radar screens. A similar plan in Chicago has been the subject of an investigation by the Department of Transportation which found that many of the private instructors were not experienced.
Other solutions proposed by the carriers include making more overtime pay available to controllers, banning controllers from transferring from some New York radar rooms until more people are hired, and establishing an office in Washington to oversee the problem.
The aviation agency is considering all of the airlines' proposals, Mr. Walker said. But he cautioned that delays are, to some extent, endemic to the region. With three major airports within a 10-mile radius, the flight routes in the area are among the most complex in the nation.
''We're not saying we will do away with delays in the New York area,'' Mr. Walker said. ''Our goal is, instead of having 400 delays on a bad day, we'll have maybe 80 delays.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); BOEING CO (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; CHICAGO (ILL)

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); HIRING AND PROMOTION; AIRPORTS; LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRPORTS (95%); AIRLINES (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (92%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (91%); CITY LIFE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); WEATHER (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); COST OF LIVING (61%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC RONALD REAGAN (78%); 



310 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Collapsing Housing Market Is Taking an Emotional Toll

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
Across the metropolitan region, thousands of people who bought homes during the long housing boom of the 1980's are suffering wrenching emotional and financial hardships as the value of their single largest investment slips away.
Signs of distress can be seen across New Jersey, Connecticut, the mid-Hudson area and on Long Island. Housing foreclosures, delinquent mortgage payments and personal bankruptcy filings are rising.
As a result of financial pressures caused largely by high housing costs, corporate employee-assistance programs report record numbers of workers seeking emotional and financial counseling. Psychologists and social workers say they are treating more cases of stress, depression, spouse and child abuse and marital strife. 
''All of us were brought up to believe that if you saved enough money to buy a house, your economic future was secure,'' said Dr. Richard Friedman, a psychologist at the State University of New York at Stony Brook who specializes in stress management. ''Each year, as you paid off the mortgage, the value of the house went up.
''Now, for the first time in 45 years, people who have put their life savings into what they thought was a rock-solid situation are losing money,'' he said. ''This has caused unmitigated anguish. Some people are on the verge of panic.''
 
'Operating on the Edge'
In large measure, the problems stem from the region's weakened economy. Slow job growth has curbed the demand for housing and depressed prices. Homeowners who bought at the market's peak, betting that prices would continue rising, now watch the value of their houses erode as property taxes and other housing costs continue to climb.
And with the effects of corporate restructurings and a shrinking Wall Street still resounding throughout the region, workers have entered an era when job security has all but vanished.
''A lot of people are operating on the edge,'' said Tony Maccarini, a real-estate lawyer in Carmel, N.Y. ''They're having trouble making their mortgage payments. They're maxed out on their credit cards. They're very nervous.''
The pressures appear to be felt most acutely in the suburbs, but owners of condominiums and cooperatives in New York City have also been hit by the one-two punch of falling real-estate values and soaring costs.
People who bought their homes before the boom began are still, of course, living in houses worth much more than they paid for them.
The homeowners hardest hit are those who bought their property from about 1983 through early 1988, when prices rose by as much as 2 to 3 percent a month in the hottest markets.
'We Feel Trapped' By Debt on Home The median price of a single-family house in the region jumped to $183,800 in 1988 from $88,900 in 1983, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Many two-income families borrowed heavily, spending 40 percent to 50 percent of their income on down payments and mortgages, banking on the seemingly endless rise of real-estate values.
Banks generally will not approve a mortgage if a household's monthly housing costs exceed 28 percent of its monthly income. But many waive that requirement if buyers make a down payment of 20 percent or more, figuring that the buyer has too much invested to default on the loan.
In addition, changes in the Federal income-tax law encouraged homeowners to assume more debt in the form of home-equity loans. These loans, or second mortgages, allowed homeowners to borrow against their home's escalating equity and deduct the interest payments from their income.
But for many families the debt burden became too much.
When Mary Anne and Larry Liesner bought a three-story colonial in Bridgeport, Conn., in 1986, they had big plans. Real-estate prices were rocketing; the Liesners figured they would renovate the 75-year-old house, sell it in four years, buy a sailboat with the proceeds and cruise the Caribbean.
Four years have passed but things have not worked out as planned. Mrs. Liesner lost her job as a restaurant manager, and Mr. Liesner lost his as a mechanic. They found other work, but earn $500 a week less than before. To save money, they stopped taking vacations and going out to dinner. But it has not been enough to keep from falling two months behind on their house payments, which increased to $2,000 a month this year from $1,400 a month in 1986.
The rudest shock came when the couple finally tried to sell: The house they bought in the boom years for $152,000 attracted only one offer, for $115,000.
''We feel trapped,'' said Mr. Liesner, who is 41 years old. ''This house consumes every dollar we make. It's a beautiful home, but it's also a huge financial burden.''
Like many other first-time home buyers, the Liesners chose a variable-rate mortgage with a low initial interest rate. In four years, the couple's mortgage rate has increased to 12 percent annually from 7.75 percent, a difference of $325 a month for them. In addition, they have to pay back a $50,000 loan they took to cover the down payment and renovation costs.
When the Liesners decided to sell, a housing glut had spread across Connecticut and the rest of the region. On Long Island, for example, the number of homes for sale increased to 20,987 this year from 5,532 five years ago.
Selling Is Hard, And a Loss Is Likely Prices have dropped 10 percent to 30 percent since late 1987, brokers said, making it impossible for many sellers to avoid a loss.
''I always wanted my own house,'' Mrs. Liesner, 43, said. ''But now I feel I made one of the biggest mistakes in my life.''
The Liesners are not alone. The Federal Home Loan Bank of New York said 3.7 percent of the mortgage loans outstanding in New York State were at least 60 days delinquent in 1989. That compares with 2.6 percent in 1988. In New Jersey, delinquencies rose to 4.75 percent from 2.9 percent in the same period, and in Connecticut to 2.3 percent from 1.35 percent.
While still a small fraction of residential real-estate loans, the number of foreclosures is slowly rising. In New York, 0.49 percent of all residential loans ended in foreclosure last year, up from 0.47 percent in 1988. In New Jersey during the same time, the figures increased to 0.83 percent from 0.74 percent. In Connecticut, they rose to 0.26 percent from 0.18 percent.
''The numbers are a sign of financial stress,'' said Rae D. Rosen, regional economist for the the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. ''Job growth has plummeted, real buying power is close to zero and people don't feel particularly confident.''
''In the past eight years, most people in Orange County had never seen a foreclosure,'' said Michele Koebrich, a realt-estate agent in Central Valley, N.Y. ''Now they're seeing them again.''
Homeowners who cannot wait out the slump and must sell immediately fare the worst, brokers and mortgage lenders say. But even those who stay speak in bitter tones of how their once-cherished houses have sidetracked their careers or played havoc with their lives.
Playing Havoc With Career Plans David Glaser, 35, a social worker, bought a three-bedroom Tudor house in Teaneck, N.J., nearly two years ago. Mr. Glaser won't disclose what his mortgage payments are now, but he said they are triple what he and his wife, Sandi, used to pay for a two-bedroom house a half-mile away.
''If I didn't have such high mortgage payments, my wife might be able to stay home when we start a family,'' he said. ''We love this house, but our regret is whether it might affect bringing up a child.''
June Richardson, 45, a management consultant, paid $260,000 for a town house in Bridgeport three years ago. Now she says she would be lucky to get $160,000 for the two-bedroom condominium.
''I have a lot of business opportunities in California, where I'd like to move, but I can't take advantage of them,'' said Ms. Richardson, whose mortgage payments are $2,050 a month. ''I'm frustrated and I'm angry. I felt this would be a secure place to put my money. Now I feel like I've lost my shirt, and that terrifies me.''
The mortgage payments on the one-bedroom condominium that Claire McPartland, 35, and her husband Ted Mammone, 34, bought in South Norwalk three years ago have climbed to $1,400 a month from $890 a month. ''There's nothing we can do other than pray that the market picks up in the next few years,'' said Ms. McPartland.
Credit counselors and employee-assistance programs throughout the region have noticed a sharp increase in clients with financial problems, stemming largely from housing costs, their largest single expense.
Consumer Credit Counseling Services of Connecticut, a large agency based in Hartford, said 102 people signed up for help in February, the largest monthly enrollment in the company's 14-year history.
''We have clients postponing divorces because they can't afford to get divorced,'' said Beverly Tuttle, president of Consumer Credit. ''They may be just making it with two incomes. If they split up the family, those same two incomes will have to support two households.''
Debt Creates Sense Of Impending Doom The number of employees of UST Inc., formerly the United States Tobacco Company, seeking financial counseling increased to more than 120 last year, a record, from 61 in 1984.
''Housing debts contribute enormously to their financial problems and it's getting worse,'' said James P. Cassidy, director of the employee assistance program of UST, in Greenwich.
The financial drain and insecurity have created a climate of hopelessness for many homeowners. ''People feel a sense of impending doom about what may happen to them,'' said Dr. Allan L. Schiffer, a clinical psychologist who operates an employee-assistance program in Hartford.
In one foreclosed house in Goshen, N.Y., that Mrs. Koebrich examined recently, the plumbing lines were cut, light fixtures were ripped out and holes were punched in the doors.
''The people were angry, frustrated and feeling absolutely desolate, so they took it out on the property,'' she said.
In most instances, homeowners' reactions are less extreme, but no less heartfelt. Four years ago, Tamar Asedo Sherman and her family moved from a six-bedroom house in Ithaca, N.Y., to a five-bedroom colonial in Northport, L.I.
After spending $30,000 to build three outside decks and renovate a family room, Ms. Sherman said their Long Island house still ''doesn't equal what we had. That house was bigger, nicer, more interesting.''
And while her family has no plans to move back upstate, Ms. Sherman says the soft housing market on Long Island has robbed them of any real say in the matter.
''I feel very resentful that I've lost a lot of flexibility in my life,'' said Ms. Sherman, a senior news writer at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. ''I often wonder, 'Am I crazy for coming here?' ''
That sentiment is echoed particularly on Long Island, where soaring property taxes have combined with sinking property values to squeeze many middle-class homeowners.
Diana Antonelli and her family moved to a three-bedroom ranch house in the Suffolk County hamlet of Sound Beach from the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn in 1984. ''I didn't buy this house to make a killing,'' Mrs. Antonelli said. ''I bought it to make a home.''
Since then, though, her property taxes have climbed to $2,700 a year from $1,900, the house has dropped in value almost 20 percent, and longtime neighbors are leaving for Florida before it gets worse.
''Living in the suburbs used to be the American dream,'' said Mrs. Antonelli, a part-time nursery school teacher. ''Now, between the runaway taxes, the commuting costs and the housing prices, it's become an American nightmare.''

GRAPHIC: photos: June Richardson, a management consultant, at home in the Bridgeport, Conn., town house she bought for $260,000 three years ago. She says that now she would be lucky to get $160,000 for the two-bedroom condominium. ''I felt this would be a secure place to put my money,'' she said. ''Now I feel like I've lost my shirt.'' (The New York Times/Stephen Castagneto) (pg. B1); Claire McPartland and her husband, Ted Mammone, are hoping ''the market picks up in the next few years.'' The mortgage payments on their one-bedroom condominium in South Norwalk, Conn., have climbed to $1,400 a month from $890 a month in three years. (The New York Times/Joyce Dopkeen) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; RATES; MORTGAGES; BANKRUPTCIES; FORECLOSURES; FINANCES, PERSONAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); TRENDS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (75%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CITIES (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); SUBURBS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



311 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: 3 Nominated for Expanded Board To Consider Conflicts of Interest

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday nominated three lawyers to serve on the New York City Conflicts of Interest Board, the five-member body that considers questions of ethical conduct involving city officials and employees.
The nominations are subject to confirmation by the City Council, a process that it likely to take several weeks. The new appointees, therefore, will probably not be able to take their seats until after the current members rule on whether it is proper for Mr. Dinkins to vote on the renewal of franchises held by Manhattan Cable Television and Paragon Cable Manhattan. 
The franchise renewals are scheduled for discussion on Wednesday at a special meeting of the Board of Estimate, on which the Mayor has two votes. A decision on the franchises could come then or later.
Mr. Dinkins had sought the board's opinion because in late 1985 he transferred stock he held in the Inner City Broadcasting Corporation to his son. Inner City was a partner with Time Warner Inc. in a Queens cable company, the Queens Inner Unity Cable System. Time Warner also holds interests in Manhattan Cable and Paragon.
 
Number of Members Increases
Members of the board serve four-year terms. Those named yesterday were Sheldon Oliensis, Benjamin Gim, and Shirley Adelson Siegel. Mr. Oliensis will serve as chairman, replacing Merrell Clark Jr. Mr. Gim and Ms. Siegel will fill new seats on the board. Under the new city charter, the number of board members was increased to five from three.
Mr. Oliensis, 68 years old, is a partner in the firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler and has been president of the City Bar Association in New York since 1988. His term as association president expires next month. Mr. Gim, 67, is a partner in Gim & Wong and early in his career served as an assistant State Attorney General. Ms. Siegel, 71, is on the adjunct faculty at the University of Maryland and at Columbia University. From 1979 to 1982 she was New York State Solicitor General.
Two current members appointed by former Mayor Edward I. Koch - Beryl Jones, an associate professor at Brooklyn Law School, and Robert J. McGuire, senior managing director of Kroll Associates and a former city Police Commissioner - were retained by Mr. Dinkins.
The conflicts board, which replaced the former Board of Ethics, issues advisory opinions on the application of the city's conflict of interest rules and can investigate complaints, hold public hearings, impose fines and recommend suspension or removal from city employment. Members are paid $250 for each board meeting.
Mr. Dinkins also announced the appointment of Miriam Arias as director of the new Office of Economic and Financial Opportunity. He said that the office, which was mandated by the new city charter, will oversee and coordinate city activities on behalf of small businesses and those owned by minorities and women. Ms. Arias will be paid $80,000 a year.
Ms. Arias, 40, is president and co-founder of Equity Temporary Services Inc., which specializes in providing temporary bilingual secretarial and clerical services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: KAYE SCHOLER LLP (84%); TIME WARNER INC (83%); INNER CITY BROADCASTING CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ETHICS, BOARD OF (NYC); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST BOARD (NYC); INNER CITY BROADCASTING CORP; MANHATTAN CABLE TELEVISION; PARAGON MANHATTAN CABLE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ETHICS; MAYORS; TELEVISION; FRANCHISES; CABLE TELEVISION; CONTRACTS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); ETHICS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); POLICE FORCES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); POLITICS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: BUDER, LEONARD; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); OLIENSIS, SHELDON; GIM, BENJAMIN; SIEGEL, SHIRLEY ADELSON DAVID N DINKINS (93%); BENJAMIN GIM (72%); MIRIAM ARIAS (72%); SHIRLEY ADELSON SIEGEL (72%); SHELDON OLIENSIS (68%); 



312 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 16, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Dancer's Death Inspires Creation of Crisis Fund

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
Monika Beerle came to New York City from St. Gallen, Switzerland, to become a dancer. She had been studying at the Martha Graham School of Contemporary Dance in New York for about a year when she moved into an apartment on the Lower East Side. Two months later, last August, she was killed. A roommate she hardly knew has been charged with her murder.
Miss Beerle's death stunned teachers, students and administrators at the Graham school. ''She did not have a lot of money,'' said Diane Gray, the director of the Graham School, in a recent interview. ''If she hadn't had to live in that very bad spot, with someone she didn't know very well, she might not have been murdered.'' Miss Gray decided to do something about it. She talked to administrators at other New York dance schools about establishing a fund to help students like Miss Beerle. 
The first benefit for the Emergency Fund for Student Dancers will take place tonight and tomorrow night at the Merce Cunningham studio in lower Manhattan. The benefit program will include Murray Louis's ''Deja Vu'' and dances by Max Luna 3d of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and Camille Brown of the Graham company.
What makes the benefit unusual is that it will be produced entirely by student dancers at five major New York dance training centers: the Graham and Cunningham schools, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center, the Nikolais and Louis Dance Lab, and the Laban/Bartenieff Institute of Movement Studies. The program will also include dances by eight fledgling choreographers representing the Cunningham, Graham and Nikolais-Louis schools.
 
Competition With Peers
'' 'Students helping students' is our motto,'' said Nolini Barretto, an adviser to students from abroad at the Graham school, in a recent interview at the Cunningham studio.
The event has brought together not only five administrators, who have been working on it since September, but students from the different schools as well. ''They're excited, competitive - and nervous,'' said Denise Jefferson, the head of the Ailey school. ''They are going to be seen by their peers.''
Lynn Lesniak-Needle, the head of the Nikolais-Louis school, nodded in agreement. ''And there's an inherent sense of pride,'' she said, ''because they're representing their schools.''
The benefit is to be the first in a series of four or five events intended to raise money to help ''people who are trying to do it for themselves in this inhospitable city,'' Ms. Jefferson said.
The money will be used primarily to help full-time students from abroad and American students from outside New York. ''Things tend to hit them most,'' said Suzanne Youngerman, head of the Laban/Bartenieff Institute.
Money raised for the fund will be lent to students for a variety of emergencies. Many American students go without medical treatment when they are sick or injured because they cannot afford it. ''We require foreign students to have health insurance, but American students no longer dependent on their parents cannot get insurance except through jobs,'' said Alice Helpern, the head of the Cunningham school.
 
'A Last Resort'
The Nikolais-Louis studio helped pay for telephone calls to China for one Chinese student who arrived in the United States just before the Tiananmen Square massacre and was worried about his family. An English student needed help to escape the battering of her new American husband. ''It's so hard for the foreign students,'' Ms. Gray said. ''They aren't allowed to work. If they do, they make very little money.''
Some, she added, are forced to work at several jobs and are so tired they cannot take classes. Often, foreign students' grant money comes long after their arrival, a time when they most need help.
But the program will also make information available to students on medical treatment, social services, temporary housing - and even finding a dance school they might like better. ''It's reassuring just to know there's a last resort,'' Miss Barretto said.
''We're all in such precarious situations,'' Ms. Gray said. ''The economy is so tight. Funding is dropping. Just the fact that this is pulling us together is so important.''
The benefit will take place tonight at 9 and tomorrow at 8 P.M. at the Cunningham studio, 55 Bethune Street. Tickets are $10; Theater Development Fund vouchers will be accepted. For reservations, call Ms. Youngerman at 689-0740. Donations to the Emergency Fund for Student Dancers may also be made through any of the participating schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEJA VU AUDIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAHAM, MARTHA, DANCE CO; CUNNINGHAM, MERCE, DANCE CO; AILEY, ALVIN, AMERICAN DANCE THEATER; NIKOLAIS AND LOUIS DANCE (DANCE COMPANY); LABAN/BARTENIEFF INSTITUTE OF MOVEMENT STUDIES LABAN/BARTENIEFF INSTITUTE OF MOVEMENT STUDIES; 

SUBJECT: DANCING; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS DANCE (96%); DANCE EDUCATION (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); DANCERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); MURDER (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; GRAY, DIANE; BEERLE, MONICA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 



313 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 20, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants

BYLINE: By Bryan Miller

 BODY:

Paper Moon Milano
The Milanese may be best known for their prowess as fashion pacesetters, but they are proving equally deft at tailoring restaurants that capture the public fancy. The invasion began several years ago with Bice in midtown Manhattan, which from the day it opened has made Armani fashion previews look sparsely attended. Imitation trattorias in various shades and sizes have popped up all over town, the latest and most ambitious of which is Paper Moon Milano on East 58th Street.
Paper Moon Milano is a smart and snappy environment, built for speed and style but not leg room, like a Lamborghini. It is part of a chain that owns restaurants in Milan and Tokyo. Starker and cooler than Bice, Paper Moon Milano attracts the same self-assured, crisply attired, polyglot crowd. Except for the tan tablecloths and some wood-and-brass accents, black and white is the design leitmotif, from the tiled floor and moody photos of Milan to the stylish outfits on the women dining here. The restaurant can get a bit close and clamorous at times, but I like the brisk, confident cadence of the room. And the good-looking waiters in long, white aprons glide through the premises with the agility of figure skaters. 
Upon being seated, you are given a lagniappe of savory strips of herbed focaccia. This presumably softens you up to absorb the prices of the appetizers, many of which are $10 or more. I have recently noticed that appetizer prices are quickly rising around town, and while many restaurants are lowering or at least holding down the prices of main courses, appetizer inflation seems to take up some of the slack.
The selection here is first-rate, though: buttery prosciutto di Parma with ripe melon, a superior Nicoise salad and a delicious combination of white beans, tuna and onions. Sandy arugula diminished an otherwise tantalizing salad of shrimp in a mild mustard vinaigrette. The grilled vegetable plate here is better and more varied than at most other restaurants, as is the ultrathin and earthy bresaola under shredded basil, shards of sharp Parmesan and fragrant olive oil.
Half-orders of pasta are not served, so you either split one order or go for an entree portion. I didn't encounter a dud in three visits, for the kitchen understands balance and clean flavors. Among the best are penne tossed with eggplant, mozzarella, fresh basil and a touch of oregano; a simpler but equally satisfying penne in a delicate and creamy tomato sauce with basil, and farfalle in a pink tomato sauce with slivers of smoked salmon. Penne all'arrabbiata has a gentle kick to it and a strong underpinning of garlic. And the seafood pasta is masterfully executed, with baby squid, clams and shrimp in a subtle bath of chopped tomato and olive oil. The one risotto sampled, also with mixed seafood, benefited from the same light-handedness.
Paper Moon Milano carries a few fresh and light pinot biancos and verdicchios for about $24, and among reds there are ample good choices that fit the style of food, including the 1987 Rosso di Montalcino (Altesino) for $22.
Main courses are not as consistent as starters, but a few stand out. The mixed grill offers meltingly tender charred fillet of beef, baby lamb chops, lusty pork sausage, well-seasoned veal, endive and eggplant. The sliced sirloin with green peppercorns and rosemary is a winner; so too is the grilled veal chop. Sliced swordfish with arugula and marjoram sounded enticing, but the carpaccio-thin fish was dry and tasteless. And the grilled Cornish hen had been fired to a papery texture.
A good bet for a light meal is one of the fragile-crusted pizzas, particularly the one with creamy ricotta cheese, tomato and sausage.
Aside from several appealing fruit tarts and a better-than-average tiramisu (it had a good espresso jolt), desserts are ordinary. Speaking of espresso, it's the real thing here, which is no small find in this town.
Paper Moon Milano is fueled by brio and a buoyant style. While not every dish is a winner, when it comes to scintillating pastas this moon shines brightly.
 
Carolina
As competition heats up among restaurants in the Broadway theater district, some established places will have to revitalize their scripts to keep the crowds coming. The seven-year-old Carolina, which was a novelty when it introduced its style of smoke-perfumed down-home Southern cooking to the neighborhood, is a case in point.
Recent visits indicate that the food here lacks the punch it had in the early days. Some dishes seem tentative, citified. It's a shame, for this town could use more twangy Southern fare, especially good ribs. The pork ribs here are passable, but they lack the penetrating smokiness that sends barbecue fans into paroxysms of delight.
Carolina is still one of the more attractive settings on the so-called Restaurant Row, on West 46th Street. The back room, while showing signs of wear, is still a cheerful place for lunch with its arching skylight, gray banquettes and wraparound mirrored walls. The darker front room near the bar, the smoking section, is tranquil and pleasant.
Some old standards here are still appealing: the chunky corn-and-potato soup enlivened with bits of ham and red pepper; moist and minimally sweet corn bread, and the sinewy beef brisket on lettuce in a sauce that comes on as sweet as a flirting Southern belle, then heats up in the aftertaste. The smoked sausage plate was puzzling, though. The pork sausage had a chemical taste, and another sausage, seasoned with cheese and parsley, was unpleasantly sour. An appetizer of smoked trout with a pallid horseradish sauce was just plain boring. A special at lunch one day, seafood chowder, was essentially a decent facsimile of Manhattan-style clam chowder. Better is the chunky, aggressively seasoned chili, which carries a delayed snap of pepper.
Carolina's service staff is energetic but disorganized: during our visits, tableware was forgotten and little details were left unattended. The all-American wine selection is limited - 7 whites, 11 reds - featuring mostly familiar labels at sensible prices.
I have always touted the crab cakes here, and still do, sort of. On the first of four revisits, they came out slightly greasy and looking as if the chef had dropped a heavy cookbook on them. On two further samplings, they were plumper and had a nice peppery edge that makes them a house favorite. No such rehabilitation saved the red-pepper shrimp, a colorless and dried-out assembly on skewers served over rice. One of the safer main courses is grilled duck breast, nicely charred and moist, with a sweet pear chutney.
The kitchen specializes in hot smoking, a technique that involves low-heat cooking over fruitwoods. As executed here, however, all that cooking only tightens the fibrous meat, leaving it chewy and dry. When it comes to seafood, the kitchen pulled off an extraordinary feat one day: through brutal overcooking and liberal seasoning, the chef managed to make swordfish and salmon indistinguishable from each other. Both came with snow peas and nearly raw carrots. If your main course is a flop, you might get some solace from side orders like the pleasantly sweet corn pudding or the crunchy fresh coleslaw. Alas, I never got to try the green chili souffle for the restaurant was always out of it.
Desserts remain the bright spot on the menu. Lemon tart is still a puckery delight, chocolate mud cake is irresistible, and the apple-crumb compote would be right at home at an Alabama church supper. I haven't eaten a candy bar in 20 years, but the signature dessert, pecan-caramel bars dipped in chocolate, would make one addictive snack if packaged.
At a time when America's food banner is flying high, Carolina's decline - from two stars in 1983, to one star in 1986, and to a Satisfactory rating now - is all the more lamentable.
 
Paper Moon Milano
**
 
39 East 58th Street, 758-8600.
Atmosphere: Smart, stylish room in black and white; can be cramped when full.
Service: Brisk and generally professional.
Recommended dishes: Prosciutto with melon; shrimp with white beans and arugula; penne with tomato and basil; penne with eggplant, oregano and mozzarella; farfalle with smoked salmon; seafood risotto, mixed grill, sliced sirloin with green peppercorns; veal chop; pizzas; fruit tarts; tiramisu.
Wine: Adequate selection well matched to the food.
Price range: Lunch and dinner: appetizers $7 to $14; main courses $15 to $24.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: Lunch: noon to 3 P.M. Monday through Saturday; dinner: 6 P.M. to 12:30 A.M. daily.
Reservations: Necessary.
Wheelchair accessibility: Ramp access to dining room; restrooms on main floor.
 
Carolina
Satisfactory
 
355 West 46th Street, 245-0058.
Atmosphere: A pretty main dining room with skylight and mirrors. Low noise level.
Service: Pleasant and informative.
Recommended dishes: Corn chowder; barbecue brisket on lettuce; grilled duck breast; crab cakes; corn pudding; lemon tart; chocolate mud cake; pecan-caramel bars.
Price range: Lunch: appetizers $4 to $9, main courses $8.50 to $25; dinner: appetizers $4 to $9; main courses $16 to $25. (Light supper menu available from 8 P.M.)
Wine: Limited American selection at fair prices.
Credit cards: American Express, Mastercard and Visa.
Hours: Lunch: noon to 3 P.M. Monday through Saturday; dinner: 5 P.M. to midnight Monday through Saturday. Closed Sunday.
Reservations: Suggested.
Wheelchair accessibility: Two small steps down at entrance; restrooms on main level.
 
What the stars mean:
 
(None) . . . Poor to satisfactory
* . . . Good
** . . . Very good
*** . . . Excellent
**** . . . Extraordinary
These ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction primarily to food, with ambiance and service considered.
Prices and menus are subject to change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MOON MILANO (NYC RESTAURANT); CAROLINA (NYC RESTAURANT)

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS; REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); MENU PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); ICE SKATING (51%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN MOON MILANO (90%); 



314 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
Retail sales fell six-tenths of 1 percent in March as business declined in virtually all sectors except for food stores, the Commerce Department said. [Page D1.]
Testimony continued in the Lincoln Savings case with Charles H. Keating Jr. asserting that regulators held up approval of two transactions that would have brought the savings institution into compliance with Federal capital requirements four months before it was seized. [D6.] The Federal court system will be burdened further in the years ahead with the hundreds of criminal cases now being prepared against former executives of failed savings institutions, Government officials said. [D6.] 
 
International
Several OPEC oil ministers expressed anxiety at the sharp fall in oil prices over the last few days, hinting at the possibility of holding a special meeting to look into ways of propping prices up. [D1.]
Brazil's Congress gave a major victory to President Fernando Collor de Mello by passing intact the heart of his Draconian anti-inflation plan. Economists said a recession was a certainty. [D1.]
 
Companies
Chemical Banking's earnings rose 28.7 percent, to $151.7 million. The Bank of New York reported a 1.2 percent gain for the first quarter. [D1.]
Intel's earnings rose 48 percent, to $143.8 million, driven by demand for its 32-bit microprocessors. [D1.]
H. J. Heinz will stop buying tuna that is caught in nets that also trap and kill dolphins. [A1.]
B. F. Goodrich reported a 69.4 percent drop in first-quarter earnings, a result of lower prices and higher costs for raw materials. [D3.]
Hilton Hotels reported that gambling profits nearly doubled its first-quarter earnings to $25.1 million. Marriott reported a 26.3 percent drop in earnings, to $28 million. [D3.]
CBS will allow technicians assigned to its news division to work exclusively on news programs, an executive said. [D4.]
Harper Collins is selling its J. B. Lippincott unit as part of an effort to raise about $500 million to reduce Harper's debt. [D4.]
The New York Times Company reported a 50 percent drop in its first-quarter net income, to $16.6 million. [D4.]
Alan Bond escaped from a difficult situation when the billionaire Kerry Packer withdrew a takeover bid for Mr. Bond's media assets. [D3.]
SmithKline Beecham agreed to sell its Yardley-Lentheric Cosmetics business to Old Bond Street for $180 million. [D3.]
 
Markets
Stock prices advanced to their best gain in more than a week, with the Dow rising 22.07 points, to 2,751.80. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds dipped in extremely thin trading. [D5.]
The dollar finished narrowly mixed in quiet trading ahead of the Easter holiday weekend. [D13.]
Live cattle futures made record highs for the second straight day on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
The Lithuanian political crisis is delaying plans for Soviet economic reforms, but President Gorbachev can no longer postpone the decisions that are needed. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
OEA makes a small explosive device that spurs the inflation of an automobile air bag just milliseconds after a crash, and the company's stock price has shot up nearly as fast. Market Place. [D6.]
Smith/Greenland, a 32-year-old agency, may be taking revenge on younger agencies. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (68%); NYT (NYSE) (63%); HNZ (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (55%); CME (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (58%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (68%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (63%); H J HEINZ CO (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); GOODRICH CORP (54%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (53%); CME GROUP INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FUTURES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); EASTER SEASON (73%); COSMETICS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); TAKEOVERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); US DOLLAR (69%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); MICROPROCESSORS (66%); BOND MARKETS (65%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (63%); HOTEL CHAINS (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); GAMING (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (58%); 



315 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Oil Worries Increasing For OPEC

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, April 12

 BODY:
A number of OPEC oil ministers expressed anxiety today at the sharp fall in oil prices over the last few days, hinting at the possibility of holding a special meeting to look into ways of propping prices up.
''Various options are being considered, including an urgent meeting of the eight-member ministerial monitoring committee and an extraordinary meeting'' of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Sadek Boussena, Algeria's oil minister and the group's current president, said in a statement today.
The organization is scheduled to hold a regular meeting of its 13 oil ministers on May 25 in Geneva to discuss production and pricing policies for the rest of this year, and a majority of its officials appeared reluctant to meet before that date unless, they said, prices weakened much further.
 
Drop of About $3 a Barrel
OPEC officials cautioned that Mr. Boussena's suggestion of an earlier emergency meeting was intended mainly to reassure world oil markets that the group was intent on addressing the recent weakness of oil prices. Prices have fallen by about $3 a barrel since the end of March. 
''The market has become worried by the reluctance of the key producers to curtail production,'' said Peter Gigoux, director of the international energy department at Shearson Lehman Hutton in London.
Leading OPEC producers, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq, appeared reluctant today to call an emergency meeting of the group, opting instead for quiet consultations to rein in the group's total output, which topped 24 million barrels a day in March.
On Wednesday, Indonesia's oil minister, Ginanjar Kartasasmita, said an emergency meeting was not necessary before the May 25 gathering. Many OPEC officials pointed out during their last meeting in March that they fully expected prices to weaken in the second quarter.
''It has gone much further than they expected because they counted on demand that is not there and on a fall in supplies from independent producers that did not materialize,'' said Gary N. Ross, head of consulting services at Petroleum Industry Research Associates in New York.
The excess production has pushed the average OPEC oil price to about $15 a barrel, substantially beneath the organization's preferred target price of $18. Oil traders said these were the lowest levels in 14 months for the group's crude.
Crude oil prices resumed their decline today in volatile trading. At the close of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the largest energy market, the spot May crude oil contract settled at $17.78 a barrel, off 28 cents on the day.
 
Above 24 Million Barrels
Senior OPEC officials said today that the primary issue now was to cut back the high level of production by the group, which exceeded 24 million barrels a day last month and was described in this week's issue of the authoritative Middle East Economic Survey oil newsletter as ''the highest monthly OPEC crude output registered since 1981.'' The organization's official level of production, agreed to in November, is 22.1 million barrels a day.
Some OPEC officials suggested that only when prices fell further would they be in favor of a more urgent action. ''There is a red line beyond which the prices must not fall,'' the United Arab Emirates oil minister, Sheik Mani Said al-Otaiba, told the country's official press agency today. ''OPEC will not stand with its arms folded in the face of what is happening in the oil markets.''
 
Cut in Output Preferred
The group's president, Mr. Boussena, seemed to suggest in his statement today that his preferred course of action, intead of calling an emergency meeting, was to roll back excessive production by those in the organization that are cheating and producing oil above their quotas.
Mr. Boussena said his consultations with other ministers showed a willingness ''to act responsibly in order to safeguard the stability of the oil market and restore prices to the agreed level,'' presumably a reference to the group's target price of $ 18 a barrel.
Mr. Boussena's caution seems to draw on another consideration. A number of key oil ministers, particularly Hisham M. Nazer of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest producer, are reluctant to have too many meetings of the group. Mr. Nazer once said in an interview that this created ''an unecessary atmosphere of crisis.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Oil prices fell in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday as some OPEC ministers discussed ways of lifting prices. (Associated Press) (pg. D1); graph showing the decrease of oil prices (source: Cambridge Energy Research Associates) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M SADEK BOUSSENA (77%); 



316 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: The Magic of Hollywood Math

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 12

 BODY:
''Coming to America,'' the Eddie Murphy film that was one of the top-10 grossing films in 1988, has brought in worldwide revenues of more than $275 million, including at least $125 million to Paramount Pictures, which made and distributed the movie.
But in Hollywood, which creates its own version of reality in its financial accounting just as on the big screen, ''Coming to America'' is a money loser. And that startling fact has set the stage for the most serious challenge yet to the way the industry makes its deals, calculates its profits and doles out its riches.
Applying the industry's standard bookkeeping practices to account for Paramount's costs and profits in making and distributing the film and for the cut of box office receipts guaranteed to a few stars on both sides of the camera, the studio calculated that the film lost $18 million through the end of last year.
 
A Blow to Buchwald
Paramount's finding that the movie has no net profits is a blow to the economic interests of anyone whose compensation might be tied to the movie's bottom line. In this case, the interests at stake are those of Art Buchwald and his co-plaintiff in his much-publicized lawsuit against Paramount, the producer Alain Bernheim. 
A state court here has already ruled that ''Coming to America,'' whose story was credited by Paramount to Eddie Murphy, was actually based on an idea first brought to Paramount by Mr. Buchwald. The court ruled that Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim, who had signed a deal to produce a film based on Mr. Buchwald's idea, are entitled to their contractual share of the net profits from ''Coming to America.''
In the next phase of the case, scheduled to go to trial this summer, lawyers for Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim will argue that the calculations that led to the film's bottom-line loss are based to some extent on bloated or improperly allocated costs, and they will challenge the fairness and legality of contracts based on the industry's current system of determining and distributing profits.
''This is like dropping a thermonuclear device in the middle of Hollywood,'' said Pierce O'Donnell, Mr. Buchwald's lawyer.
Paramount says there is nothing improper about its accounting system, which is the same one used throughout the industry for decades. Moreover, the studio and its lawyers say, the contract signed by Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim clearly defines the way in which their payment was to be calculated.
''The net profit definition in our Art Buchwald contract is essentially the same as every contract, not only with Paramount Pictures but in the entire motion picture industry,'' said Charles Diamond, a lawyer representing Paramount. ''The books and records will show the accounting we have provided is honest, straightforward and accurate.''
The case gets to the heart of what has become an economic caste system in Hollywood. Under the system, the very top stars and the most proven producers and directors can negotiate contracts that allow them to take their money right off the top through what Hollywood calls gross-profit participation. In essence, those people are getting a cut of box office receipts before the studio starts accounting for the film's costs, and the payoff can be immense.
For ''Fatal Attraction,'' another hit film made and distributed by Paramount, industry executives say that the producers, Stanley Jaffe and Sherry Lansing, together took home $20 million from their gross participation deals. Michael Douglas, one of the film's stars, got $9 million from his gross participation deal, and the director, Adrian Lyne, $5.5 million.
There are no gross-profit deals for those below the top tier of talent and success. Jack Nicholson reportedly has a gross profit deal on ''Batman,'' for example, but Batman himself, Michael Keaton, does not. Those people without gross profit deals get a flat salary or a salary plus a percentage of the film's net profits. And as ''Coming to America'' illustrates, net profits are often scarce or nonexistent, even for big hits.
 
Locking In the Profits
The ''Coming to America'' case shows where the money goes and illustrates how the studios, as well as the gross-profit participants, lock in their profits through their roles in financing, making and distributing films.
The $275 million brought in by ''Coming to America'' includes worldwide box office revenues and the sale of rights to home video, cable and broadcast television. After theater owners and others took their share, Paramount was left with revenue on the film of at least $125 million, according to court documents filed by the studio, which is a unit of Paramount Communications.
The total ''negative costs,'' or the costs of developing and making the movie, were $58.5 million. That figure includes about $39.5 million of actual development, production and post-production costs. But it also includes the payments made under the film's gross-profit deals - about $10 million paid to Eddie Murphy and $1 million to the director, John Landis.
 
An 'Overhead' Fee
The negative costs also include an ''overhead'' fee of about $8 million, or roughly 15 percent of the production costs, that the studio charged to the film's books for the use of its plant and personnel. Charging such a fee is standard industry practice, although industry executives say it usually amounts to far more than a film's fair share of maintaining a studio's lot.
Right off the top, Paramount took a fee of $42 million, or more than 30 percent of the film's rental income, for distributing the movie to theaters through its network of sales offices. That is also the standard arrangement in the industry, and the major source of profit for the studio.
Paramount then charged to the film's books the costs of distributing ''Coming to America,'' which it said amounted to $36 million. Included in that figure is $15.7 million in advertising costs in the United States, $8.3 million for advertising abroad and charges for making prints and shipping the film around the world.
The film was then charged an interest cost of $6.4 million, essentially a finance charge to be paid to the studio for the use of its money.
 
The Result: A Loss
The cost of making the film, the payments made to Mr. Murphy and Mr. Landis under their deals, the distribution fee for Paramount and the distribution and interest costs add up to $143 million by Paramount's calculation. The movie therefore lost $18 million - even though the studio and the film's star and director profited handsomely.
Although ''Coming to America'' continues to generate revenue, the movie will almost certainly never show a net profit under the current accounting system. If there were net profits, as defined by Paramount's lengthy contract with Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim, Mr. Buchwald would receive 1.5 percent of them for developing the story on which the movie is based. Mr. Bernheim's contract entitled him to 17.5 percent of the net profits. Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim could be awarded millions if Paramount is forced to change the way it calculates profits.
In not posting net profits, ''Coming to America'' is the rule rather than the exception. ''I'd say that only five or six movies a year, out of the hundreds that are made each year, pay out net profits,'' said one top Hollywood agent.
The studios argue that they deserve to take a big chunk of the profits up front because it is their money at risk, and because for every film with enough success to yield a large distribution fee, dozens are flops or are never made. Studio executives also say that it is common knowledge to those on both sides of deals that net profit arrangements rarely pay out significant sums, and that when they do, they are a bonus for a film's especially strong financial performance.
 
Many Resentful
Still, Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim have plenty of support in Hollywood. One reason is that there are almost never any net profits on films with gross-profit participants, and actors, writers, directors and others often resent watching a handful of people walk away with huge sums while they get nothing beyond their salaries - even if their salaries alone are considered exorbitant by many people outside the industry.
So Mr. Buchwald, Mr. Bernheim and their legal team are likely to have a large rooting section as they start to pick at Paramount's books. Mr. O'Donnell, Mr. Buchwald's lawyer, said he intends to challenge many of the costs charged to ''Coming to America,'' like a $300 bill for hanging a door on the set. He also wants to challenge whether the studio can include gross-profit payments made to Mr. Murphy and Mr. Landis as part of the film's negative costs when calculating its overhead charge.
But it seems highly unlikely that Mr. O'Donnell will find $18 million or more in bloated or improper costs in Paramount's books for the movie. Mr. O'Donnell is certain to bring up a clause in the contract that gives Mr. Bernheim control over whether there are gross-profit deals on the film. But the case may come down to whether net-profit deals, at least when made on films where there are also gross-profit deals, are deceptive and unfair.
Mr. O'Donnell thinks there is sufficient precedent to show that they are, but Mr. Diamond, the lawyer for Paramount, thinks that argument may not even be relevant because the case centers on a contract, agreed to by Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim, that spells out a precise definition of net profits.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eddie Murphy & John Landis (pg. D1); Art Buchwald, after a court ruled in January that ''Coming to America'' was based on an idea that he took to Paramount. (Associated Press) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: COMING TO AMERICA (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORP

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; FINANCES MOVIE REVENUES (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TICKET SALES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUCHWALD, ART; BERNHEIM, ALAIN; MURPHY, EDDIE EDDIE MURPHY (90%); 



317 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Congress Passes Anti-Inflation Plan

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, April 12

 BODY:
Brazil's Congress gave a major victory to President Fernando Collor de Mello late Wednesday by passing intact the heart of his Draconian anti-inflation plan. Economists said a severe recession was a certainty.
In a surprising vote, legislators passed by 249 to 204 a measure that freezes for 18 months all bank deposits of more than $1,200 and money-market deposits of more than $600.
''I am extremely satisfied with the result of the congressional session,'' Mr. Collor told reporters as he headed for a pizzeria in Brasilia to celebrate. 
Mr. Collor decreed the measure as part of a package he initiated on March 16, the day after he took office. He said it was central to his strategy of beating back inflation, which has run at an annual rate of 4,854 percent.
The Economy Minister, Zelia Cardoso de Mello, was exultant after the vote and said the legislative action would insure the success of the ''New Brazil Plan.''
But economists agreed that Mr. Collor's plan would produce a brutal recession, at least in the short term. [In approving the economic program, the Brazilian Congress did make some changes, including limiting the program for selling state industries to private investors and raising the minimum wage more than the President wanted.
But the Brazilian Ambassador to the United States, Marcilio Marques Moreira, said in an interview that it was possible for President Collor to veto the changes. If this happened, Congress could try to override the veto. [The Ambassador said Congress voted not to allow foreign banks with loans to the Government to swap these loans for shares in state companies that go private. Such a restriction could limit the scope of proposals that Brazil is expected to make when it finally resumes debt negotiations with its commercial bankers. Brazil's debt, which totals $112.7 billion, is the largest in the developing world.] ''A recession is inevitable - its duration will depend on the Government's future conduct of economic policy,'' said Edmar Bacha, an economist, who supports the plan as necessary to end chronic inflation.
 
Ubiquitous Signs of Crisis
Signs of an impending recession are everywhere. The automobile, capital goods, construction and machine tools industries are virtually paralyzed. Unions say almost a million workers have either been discharged, taken pay cuts or been put on a collective holiday.
''The Government will have to create special credit lines for badly hit sectors to prevent the recession from getting out of control,'' said Mario Henrique Simonsen, a conservative economist who served as Finance Minister between 1974 and 1979, when Brazil was run by a right-wing military regime.
''The bank confiscation has shaken the short-term confidence of investors and savers in the financial system. How they react in the longer term will be crucial'' to limiting the depth of the recession, he said.
Leftist economists were especially critical.
''You can't solve economic problems with this sort of drastic solution.'' said Paul Singer, a leading economist with the Socialist Workers Party, who predicted a depression and said he feared ''very serious social convulsions.''
 
Collective Bargaining Favored
He said the Workers Party favored collective bargaining of wages and prices between labor unions and business to bring down inflation, without producing a recession.
Representative Cesar Maia, an economist and spokesman for the center-left Democratic Labor Party, said, ''The logic of the plan is to paralyze the economy for several months and then make the recession tolerable.'' If the Government managed the plan well, he said, the economy could begin to grow again in about a year.
 
U.S. Is 'Pleased'
WASHINGTON, April 12 (Special to The New York Times) - Brazil's approval of an austere anti-inflation package is likely to unleash as much as $2 billion in support for the Brazilian economy from the International Monetary Fund, World Bank and other international lending agencies, American and other officials said here today.
The Bush Administration said it was ''pleased'' by Brasilia's action. It termed the reform program ''bold,'' and welcomed it particularly because of Brazil's importance as a trading partner.
The hope is to cushion the almost-certain recessionary effects of the package on the Brazilian public by marshaling the multilateral assistance, American officials said.
The World Bank, which lent Brazil $1.76 billion over the 11 months ended Feb. 28, is preparing several large loans, including one of $100 million, that can move forward as a result of today's action, a bank official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (74%); 

COMPANY: BRAZILIAN CONGRESS (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); VETO (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); GOING PRIVATE (63%); 

PERSON: COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO (PRES) FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO (86%); 



318 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Why Gorbachev Delays Reforms

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
EMBROILED in the political crisis initiated by Lithuania's bid to secede from the Soviet Union, which hard-liners and anti-reformers are exploiting for their own purposes, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has deferred the decision on whether and how to carry out a ''radical'' reformation of the Soviet economic system.
There is growing evidence that Mr. Gorbachev is not yet ready to accept a definite plan and a timetable for thoroughly revising the Soviet system.
A coalition of old Stalinists, bureaucrats and military officers, seizing on the Lithuanian struggle for independence, is producing a chilling effect on political and economic reform. They could bring Mr. Gorbachev down. 
In televised remarks this week the Soviet President appeared to be trying to parry that threat by warning that the redrawing of internal borders would lead to ''bloody carnage,'' and he accused a group of Communist Party progressives of wanting to restore capitalism. It is striking that Mr. Gorbachev has used that all-purpose charge to reject proposals for the type of market reforms that he had earlier endorsed. But the rejection may only be temporary, as he fends off the orthodox Communists and the standpatters.
There are economic as well as political dangers before him that may prevent him from imposing additional economic strains in the midst of a political crisis. With the economy suffering from a suppressed inflation that is taking the form of growing shortages, widespread black markets and increasing corruption, the Soviet leader appears to have put aside plans for an early freeing of prices lest open inflation and worsening unemployment blow him and his reform movement out of the water.
With the ruble sinking into virtual worthlessness either for international or domestic uses, his chief economic adviser, Leonid I. Abalkin, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economic program, has said that a new package of economic proposals will not include plans to replace the ruble with a new currency or to make it freely convertible in the near future.
The Soviet Union will have to depend more and more on barter deals, like Pepsico's arrangement to produce and sell more soft drinks in the Soviet Union in exchange for vodka and merchant ships. But not many other American businesses will want to invest in the Soviet Union without greater prospects of getting their money out.
At a recent conference in Moscow, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the New Jersey Democrat who is the former chairman of Automatic Data Processing, told the Soviets that if they wanted to expand their business with the United States, there were many basic problems they had to solve, including these:
* Make it possible for foreign companies to repatriate their profits and help them ''thread their way through the bureaucracy.''
* Establish a telecommunications system that will enable companies to stay in touch with their home offices and other centers.
* Collect and publish reliable economic data that will enable foreign companies to do adequate risk analysis.
* Give foreign companies the freedom to hire and dismiss workers, and create the possibility of freer travel in and out of the Soviet Union and inside it.
* Provide protection from arbitrary political and economic decision-making by the authorities.
* Establish tax policies that will apply equally to all trading partners.
* Re-evaluate national security requirements and eliminate unnecessary barriers to trade; Senator Lautenberg stressed that such changes were essential on both sides.
But the task of opening up the economy goes far beyond what business executives or economists prescribe; it also requires winning the political battle at home. Can Mr. Gorbachev do it? The answer depends partly on an assessment of the Soviet leader's character, courage, intelligence, economic savvy and commitment to achieving the goals of a free and democratic society. As he shifts his stance on privatization and other Soviet reforms, uncertainties about Mr. Gorbachev's will and perseverance increase.
But everything does not depend just on the character of one man. He has enormous resistances to overcome: the ingrained ideology and habits of thought and behavior of the Soviet people after 70 years of Communism; the doubters and resisters within the Politburo, the Central Committee, the Army, the ministries and the bureaucracy; the unruly nationalities and republics, eager to be free of Russian dominance; the lack of a genuine social compact binding the nation's groups together, preparing them, like the Poles, to make the sacrifices that may be needed to reform the economy and achieve genuine freedom.
But Mr. Gorbachev can no longer postpone hard decisions. If he is to redeem his promises to rescue his country from a stale, rigid and failed system, he must gather people around him who are prepared to work tirelessly to build a better society.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (52%); ADP (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (52%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; SECESSION SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CORRUPTION (75%); TRENDS (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; SILK, LEONARD FRANK LAUTENBERG (50%); 



319 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Door Revolves Again At Top of Winnebago

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The revolving door at Winnebago Industries turned again yesterday, and out went Richard D. Conner as president and chief executive.
In a terse announcement, the maker of recreational vehicles in Forest City, Iowa, said the board had terminated the employment of Mr. Conner. He had been in the posts since December. 
John K. Hanson, the company's 76-year-old founder and chairman, who has been unable to put a successor in place, was named acting chief executive.
The company has lost money in the last three quarters, and sales of its top line of recreational vehicles are down significantly, said an analyst, Frank P. Rolfes of Dain Bosworth Inc. in Minneapolis. ''The overall recreational vehicles business is not good,'' he said, ''but Winnebago is suffering more than the industry.''
He attributed Winnebago's performance to quality and production problems and misjudgment in building inventory. Yesterday's termination of Mr. Conner, however, did not move the stock, which closed at $5.125, unchanged, on the New York Stock Exchange.
''They've had a revolving door there for several years,'' Mr. Rolfes said. ''It didn't hurt the stock today, but this uncertainty about management has hurt in the long run.''
Mr. Conner and Mr. Hanson were not available to comment, a company spokesman said. In December, when he was named to the top posts, Mr. Conner said he was not concerned about management flux. ''I've worked as a consultant for John K.,'' he said. ''We've tested out our relationship and found it extremely enjoyable and fruitful.''
Mr. Hanson, who Mr. Rolfes said has not been in good health lately, has tried out several people in the chief executive post in the last decade, including a son, John V. Hanson, and all have been found wanting. The elder Mr. Hanson is ''the key to the thing,'' Mr. Rolfes said, ''and anything that happens will be based on his influence.'' The Hansons own 45 percent of the company.
Mr. Conner, 57, joined Winnebago in 1988 as chief executive of a Winnebago subsidiary, Cycle Sat, which distributes commercials to television stations via satellite. He was made deputy chairman last August, succeeding Mr. Hanson's son, who left the company.
At that time, a 10-member management council was in operation. The council was set up after the departure a year ago of Gerald Gilbert, president and chief executive.
Mr. Conner and Mr. Gilbert once both held senior management positions at the Control Data Corporation in Minneapolis but were not well acquainted there. Mr. Conner left Control Data in 1985 after 18 years, to set up a consulting firm. He was a Winnebago board member since 1984.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (60%); WGO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (80%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (60%); NAICS336213 MOTOR HOME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3716 MOTOR HOMES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (80%); DAIN BOSWORTH INC (70%); ARBITRON INC (60%); WINNEBAGO INDUSTRIES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WINNEBAGO INDUSTRIES INC

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: CONNER, RICHARD D; HANSON, JOHN K; CUFF, DANIEL F JOHN K HANSON (73%); 



320 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Net of Times Co. Halved in First Quarter

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The New York Times Company reported yesterday that its net income in the first quarter of 1990 dropped by 50 percent, to $16.6 million, or 22 cents a share, from $33.5 million, or 42 cents a share, in the 1989 period.
The company's income from continuing operations also amounted to $16.6 million, or 22 cents a share, a decline of 47 percent. In the first quarter of 1989, the company earned $31.5 million, or 40 cents a share, from continuing operations. The results for 1989 do not include $2 million, or 2 cents a share, for the company's cable system, which was sold in August. 
Consolidated revenues increased by almost 2 percent during the first three months of this year, to $431.2 million, compared with $423.1 million in 1989.
 
Advertising Linage Lower
The main reasons for the decline in income from continuing operations, the company said, were lower advertising linage at The New York Times newspaper and reductions in earnings resulting from the 1989 purchase of McCall's magazine, as well as depreciation and interest costs connected with the company's new printing and distribution plant in Edison, N.J.
The drop in ad linage at The Times, a decline of 11.8 percent in the quarter, reflects the continuing weakness in the New York region's economy. Most of the loss was in help wanted and real estate advertising.
The Times newspaper reported reaching record circulation levels. For the six months ended March 31, The Times notified the Audit Bureau of Circulations that its weekday circulation was 1.15 million, an increase of 33,000 over the corresponding period a year ago, with Sunday circulation just over 1.7 million, a gain of 42,000.
 
McCall's Purchase a Factor
The purchase of McCall's magazine last year accounted for a reduction in earnings of 5 cents a share.
Another 8 cents a share of the reduction came from increased depreciation and interest expense. In the first quarter, the Times Company completed the new automated color production and distribution plant in Edison as well as a new printing plant for The Gwinnett (Ga.) Daily News.
The company's newspaper group, which consists of The New York Times, 35 regional newspapers and a one-third interest in The International Herald Tribune, reported a drop in operating profits, to $38.4 million from $55.9 million. Revenues for the group declined to $333.8 million from $343.1 million.
 
Loss for Magazine Group
The company's magazine group reported a loss of $3.8 million for the quarter, compared with a $700,000 profit in 1989, though revenues for the group increased to $79.1 million from $62.6 million. The company said both the drop in earnings and the increase in revenues were attributable to the purchase of McCall's in July.
In the company's forest products group, which includes interests in several Canadian newsprint mills, equity in earnings was $30,000, compared with $3.6 million in 1989. The company said the decrease was caused by an unfavorable currency exchange rate and an oversupply of newsprint that led to heavy discounting.
The company's broadcast and information services group, which includes several television and radio operations, reported unchanged operating profits of $2.9 million on revenues of $18.3 million, compared with $17.3 million in 1989. Increased depreciation from new plants offset increased advertising revenues.
The Times Company's share price closed yesterday at $22.75, down 75 cents, in American Stock Exchange trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (97%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (67%); DEPRECIATION (61%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S



321 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Slip in Thin Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds dipped in extremely thin trading yesterday, as dealers ignored a weaker-than-expected report on retail sales and focused on a long holiday weekend instead.
The six-tenths of a percentage point drop in retail sales reported for March was far steeper than the two-tenths of a percentage point increase that most analysts had been anticipating.
Rather than focus on the unexpected drop, which suggests that consumer spending may be tailing off, dealers instead chose to concentrate on an upward revision in the February sales figures. Even with the change, retail sales in February still declined by three-tenths of a percentage point. 
 
'Demand Just Isn't There'
Evidence of a slowdown in as large a segment of the economy as consumer spending would usually be well received in the fixed-income markets, which thrive on slow growth and low inflation.
''The market liked the retail sales number for about a quarter of a second, and then the February revision came out,'' a bond trader said.
''It's typical, because the market has ignored good news for the last month,'' the trader added. ''That's because the Street is long securities and retail demand just isn't there.''
A rumor that a large foreign account, possibly Japanese, was looking to sell $1 billion or more of bonds also served to push prices lower. Moreover, with a report on producer prices for March due this morning and the credit markets closed in observance of Good Friday, few traders were willing to establish new positions.
 
'People May Be Afraid'
''I was shocked at the market's disregard of the retail sales report, but I don't think anybody wants to put much on the table in advance of the producer prices report,'' said David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International. ''People may be afraid of an unfriendly number.''
However, most analysts are forecasting that producer prices rose by a modest one or two-tenths of a percentage point last month, helped by softness in energy prices.
The bulk of the day's price drop was felt among longer-term notes and bonds.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 99 1/32, down 7/32, to yield 8.58 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 1/8, down 5/32, to yield 8.63 percent. The 8 1/2 percent seven-year notes auctioned on Wednesday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price ot yield 8.63 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 7/8, down 2/32, to yield 8.56 percent.
 
Slight Gain for Bills
Short-term Treasury bill rates rose modestly. In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.74 percent, up two basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bill rates rose by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 7.76 percent.
In the new-issue corporate bond market, the Hertz Corporation offered $75 million of senior one-year notes through an underwriting syndicate led by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
The 8.70 percent notes, which mature on April 23, 1991, were priced at 100, 45 basis points over the prevailing bond-equivalent yield on one-year Treasury bills.
The securities are rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Services and BBB by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
Little Change in Prices
Activity in the secondary markets for corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds was very slow, dealers said, with little change in prices.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that the two broadest measures of the nation's money supply fell in the week ended April 2. The narrowest measure, M-1, rose by $3.4 billion.
The report was released after the special 2 P.M. close of the Government securities market yesterday. American Expressd (Shearson Lehman Hutton)

GRAPHIC: Graph of Tax-Exempt Yields

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT RETAIL SALES (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EASTER SEASON (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



322 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Air Bag Maker A Big Wall St. Hit

BYLINE: By Eben Shapiro

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
OEA Inc. makes a small explosive device that triggers the inflation of an automobile air bag milliseconds after a crash, and the Denver-based company's stock price has shot up nearly as fast.
Last month alone, OEA's shares rose 35 percent on the American Stock Exchange, where they closed yesterday at $43, unchanged for the day.
''That stock is going nuts,'' said William H. Steele of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ''It is a pure play on the air bag industry.''
In a regulation issued in July 1984, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said that by the fall of 1989 all new cars must have automatic seat belts or air bags on the driver's side. 
The agency estimated that in October there were a little over a million air bag-equipped cars on the road. It predicts that 2.9 million more will be sold during the 1990 model year and that by 1993, 5 million to 6 million cars a year will be sold with air bags. Passenger-side air bags are expected to follow, and Federal safety experts proposed this year that car makers begin installing air bags in light trucks and vans within three years.
''The air bag business holds tremendous potential and that's what is driving the stock,'' said Jerry R. Levine, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.
''We forecast that air bags will become the preferred passive restraint system by 1992,'' said Mr. Steele of Dean Witter. Consumer groups, he said, have shown that many people do not like automatic seat belts, which hit some passengers in the throat and others in the forehead.
The insurance industy is also fueling sales by offering discounts on personal injury and medical coverage for drivers of cars equipped with air bags.
For investors, OEA represents one of the few ways to cash in directly on the growing popularity of air bags. The primary makers of air bag systems, TRW Inc. and Morton International Inc., are billion-dollar conglomerates, with air bags only a small part of their business.
Still, a recent Salomon Brothers report on Morton was entitled ''Air bags Should Inflate Earnings.'' Michael E. Hoffman, a Salomon analyst, recommended purchase of the stock, saying, ''We believe that the current stock price does not adequately account for the potential earnings and cash-flow contribution of the company's air bag business.'' By 1995, he predicted, air bag sales will represent 10 percent of sales for the company. Morton's stock closed yesterday at $37.875.
The investment community is less enthusiastic about TRW, but the popularity of air bags is still seen as a positive development for the company.
OEA's one competitor, CIL Inc., based in Toronto, is a division of Imperial Chemical Industries P.L.C., the British conglomerate.
Despite the competition, OEA has 70 percent of the market for the ''air bag initiators.'' Analysts discount the threat of additional competitors entering the field.
In the manufacture of air bags, quality and reliability are critical issues. ''You have to establish a name,'' Mr. Steele said. ''These initiators have to work 100 percent of the time. If an air bag system does fail, there is a huge potential for loss.''
It would also be expensive for a rival to develop a manufacturing process for the highly sensitive explosive device that sells for $10 to $15.
OEA also makes the device that triggers the ejection seats in military aircraft and the safety chutes in passenger aircraft, as well as the devices that help eject different stages of missiles and space vehicles.
The company's reliance on military contracts has troubled some investors. ''You can't neglect the fact that most of the sales come from defense,'' Mr. Levine said. Still, because of the nature of OEA's government contracts, Mr. Levine said the company was not particularly vulnerable to cuts in military spending.
Mr. Steele of Dean Witter said the air bag initiators would eventually become OEA's most important product. For the first six months of OEA's current fiscal year, the devices accounted for about 28 percent of sales and half of earnings, Dean Witter said. Dean Witter estimates that the company's earnings per share will grow by 20 percent a year for the next five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (63%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (63%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (63%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (63%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%); 

COMPANY: OEA INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (83%); MORTON INTERNATIONAL INC (63%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (63%); IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (60%); CIL INC (60%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OEA INC

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS (CORPORATE); STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME VEHICLE AIRBAGS (93%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (92%); AIRBAG MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); CASH FLOW (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); CHEMICALS (60%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN WILLIAM H STEELE (73%); JERRY R LEVINE (61%); 



323 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed and Gold Up In Quiet Pre-Easter Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished narrowly mixed yesterday in quiet trading ahead of the Easter holiday weekend. Gold prices rose worldwide.
Activity finished early in Europe, where traders have a four-day weekend. In domestic dealings, traders spent a dull session squaring accounts ahead of what will be a short trading session today. 
''There's not much interest out there at all,'' said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
The most notable activity came from Japanese investors, who sold dollars for yen. Mr. Flanagan said there was some speculation among traders that the Bank of Japan might move to raise interest rates over the weekend in an attempt to bolster the weak Japanese currency.
 
Strength Against the Yen
Still, the dollar maintained its strength against the yen, relinquishing ground only in Asian trading.
In Tokyo, where trading ends as Europe's business day begins, the dollar fell 0.50 yen, to a closing 158.00 yen. Later in London, it was quoted at 158.14 yen. In New York, the dollar closed at 158.18 yen, up from 157.95 yen on Wednesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.6425, from $1.6432 late Wednesday. In New York, sterling fell to $1.6420 from Wednesday's $1.6425.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday's rates, included: 1.6724 West German marks, up from 1.6720; 1.4818 Swiss francs, up from 1.4800; 5.6160 French francs, up from 5.6110; 1,229.50 Italian lire, down from 1,230.25, and 1.1617 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1645.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $375.90 a troy ounce, up $1.60 from late Wednesday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $375.25 an ounce, up 50 cents.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $375.25 a troy ounce, from $374.75 bid late Wednesday. In Zurich, gold rose to a closing bid of $375.50 from $374. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose $1.07 to close at a bid of $376.20.
Silver prices were little changed. On New York's Comex, silver bullion for current delivery slipped to $5.091 a troy ounce from Wednesday's $5.129. In London, silver traded at a late bid of $5.11 an ounce, unchanged from Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); ZURICH (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (53%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); BRITISH POUND (74%); GERMAN MARK (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN FLANAGAN (60%); 



324 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Japan Trade Surplus Up

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 12

 BODY:
After 11 months of decline Japan's trade surplus climbed in March, but economists said it was because the month's imports were being compared with an unusually large amount of imports in March 1989.
The Finance Ministry today reported a surplus of $7.09 billion in March, up from $6.61 billion in March 1989. In each of the 11 previous months, the surplus had been smaller than in the corresponding month a year earlier.
In February, the surplus had fallen to $5.01 billion from $7.23 billion in February 1989.
For Japan's fiscal year, which ended March 31, the surplus, measured when goods pass through customs, fell to $59.7 billion from $78.9 billion in the previous year, the ministry reported.
In trade with the United States, which has been pressing Japan to narrow the imbalance, the March surplus contracted to $3.77 billion, from $4.01 billion a year earlier. For the fiscal year, Japan's sales to the United States exceeded American sales here by $42.8 billion, down 12.7 percent from the $49 billion surplus the year before.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); 



325 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: The Decline of Bonwit Teller: Did Time Pass Retailer By?

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Twenty years ago, Bonwit Teller and Saks Fifth Avenue, two of the nation's most celebrated fashion retailers catering to affluent customers, were roughly equivalent in size and approach.
But today, as businesses, they are worlds apart. Saks, owned since 1974 by a British company, has become the nation's prime seller of clothing to affluent women, has greatly expanded its men's clothing lines and is now one of the nation's most profitable retailers. Bonwit this week began going-out-of-business sales as its losses under its Australian parent company became insurmountable. 
 
Lack of Consistency Seen
The unhappy story of Bonwit's demise, analysts said, is a case of a retailer that first lost its edge in marketing and then became a repeated takeover target, with each new owner shifting strategies. Customers, understandably confused, fled to other stores. And so Bonwit's once-profitable marketing formula of catering mainly to affluent, fashion-conscious women was squandered.
''I don't mean to be unkind,'' said Marvin J. Rothenberg, head of the retail marketing consulting firm bearing his name, ''but Bonwit Teller was dead for years, only no one buried it.''
The Pyramid Companies of Syracuse, which bought the Bonwit name and the leases on two Bonwit stores, said it would heed the lessons of the retailer's decline. Pyramid plans to encourage a new top management team to focus sharply on profits, partly by giving the executives a 50 percent stake in the business.
Industry analysts said that Bonwit's problems were magnified by the operational and marketing changes brought about as at least 10 management teams altered the company with their own agendas. By comparison, Saks had three top-management shuffles in the same period, and they kept the chain's policy consistent. They also drove Saks's sales to six times that of Bonwit's - more than $1 billion, compared with $168 million - and kept the stores profitable while Bonwit suffered intermittent losses.
Both Bonwit and Saks were put up for sale several months ago, but for very different reasons. Bonwit drew no bidders, while the more alluring Saks attracted eight, leading to strong expectations that it will soon have new owners.
 
Behind the Sale Signs
The Hooker Corporation, the Australian developer that bought both Bonwit and B. Altman, went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy in August and put Bonwit on the block to raise cash. Last week a Federal bankruptcy judge approved Hooker's plan to liquidate most of the Bonwit stores. As a result, there was a sharp cutback in the number of stores, to 4 from 16, effectively putting the other 12 out of business.
For its part, Saks's owner, B.A.T. Industries of London, is selling off Saks, along with Marshall Field & Company and other American retail entities, to focus on its core tobacco business and forestall a hostile takeover by Sir James Goldsmith, the British financier.
 
'It Was a Great Company'
Rival retailers express sympathy but are often caustic about the reasons for Bonwit's downfall.
''I started with Bonwit and it was a great company many years ago,'' said Ira Neimark, chairman and chief executive of Bergdorf Goodman. ''But the lack of consistent management is one of the biggest reasons why Bonwit lost its way.''
Paul Leblang, senior vice president of marketing for Saks Fifth Avenue, said: ''Bonwit's ultimately failed to satisfy its customers and no longer was the 'destination' store.' If you don't project yourself in a consistent way, you lose your spot on the positioning ladder.''
Mr. Leblang added, ''Consumers didn't quite know what Bonwit's had anymore.''
It is now up to Pyramid, whose store leases are in Boston and Buffalo, to give Bonwit a second life of sorts. Pyramid says it will also seek to replace the flagship store being closed in Trump Tower in Manhattan with another one on Fifth Avenue. Two other Bonwit stores, in Hooker shopping malls in Cincinnati and Columbia, S.C., will continue to operate under a license from Pyramid.
Robert Congel, Pyramid's managing partner, said he hoped to revive Bonwit by ''motivating a new management team we have selected, by offering its four members almost half of the business, by giving them a debt-free company and eventually a new flagship.''
Pyramid has built most of its 16 malls in the Northeast by offering partnerships to experts in finance, legal affairs, mall leasing and construction. Pyramid typically retains a 50 percent stake in those centers.
 
'Total Control' Sought
Mr. Congel said Pyramid would not restrict Bonwit stores to just company-owned malls, of which 17 new ones are in development. He said plans called for new Bonwit stores in ''appropriate, upscale locations in such cities as Philadelphia and New York.'' He added, ''We want to open at least one new Bonwit a year but we want to have total control.''
The company was started by Paul J. Bonwit in the 1880's when he opened a small shop at Sixth Avenue and 18th Street selling fine women's apparel and exclusive designs. In 1898, he formed a partnership with Edmund D. Teller.
Bonwit was acquired by the Allied Stores Corporation in 1979 from Genesco Inc., and Allied seemed to give it the expansion and confidence that competing retail executives say it deserved.
Allied moved the flagship store to Trump Tower and it seemed that after years of static ownership Bonwit might finally thrive. But in 1986, Allied was acquired in a hostile takeover by the Campeau Corporation, the Canadian real estate developer.
''One of the first things Robert Campeau told me in 1986 was that Bonwit had to be sold,'' said William Ruben, who was chairman and chief executive of Bonwit from 1983 through March 1989.
Walter K. Levy, a retail-marketing consultant, said, ''Genesco bought Bonwit for prestige, Allied bought it to go upscale and Hooker bought it for anchors for its medium-income malls.'' But Bonwit was a high-priced retailer that did not fit into some of the new Hooker malls, he said.
Even under Allied, said Jerome Chazen, chairman of Liz Claiborne, Inc., a leading women's apparel maker, Bonwit surrendered its prime focus. ''To Allied, it was regarded only as a small, nonprofitable entity,'' he added.
 
'The Wrong Markets'
But Mr. Ruben said: ''I thought that Bonwit should be expanded into existing markets, like New York, Chicago and Philadelphia, where there could be economies of scale in advertising and distribution. But Hooker took a fine, upscale retailer and put it in the wrong markets.''
In the summer of 1989, however, Hooker found itself with little money even after selling Bonwit's accounts receivables to the GE Capital Corporation.
Recalling that Bonwit in the late 1960's had an enviable 10 percent operating profit margin, Mr. Levy, the New York consultant who had also worked for Bonwit, attributed the gains to the introduction of designer clothes at the chain by Mildred Custin, then Bonwit's chairman.
''But as Bonwit's began to flounder,'' Mr. Levy said, ''it lost the sharp elbows that Saks Fifth Avenue had. Without that or a more critical mass, it meant that Bonwit couldn't get its deliveries on time nor enough exclusives to make it stand out.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bonwit Teller is holding a going-out-of-business sale at its flagship store at East 57th Street in Manhattan and shoppers went bargain hunting yesterday amid the display cases. (The New York Times/William E. Sauro) (pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (50%); BTI (JSE) (50%); BATS (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (82%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (82%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PYRAMID COS (82%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BONWIT TELLER INC

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES RETAILERS (91%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE



326 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: BOEING TO FINANCE NEW 767-X AIRLINER WITHOUT JAPANESE

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 13

 BODY:
The Boeing Company said today that it would finance by itself the development of its proposed 767-X aircraft. Three Japanese aerospace companies will be substantial suppliers for the 300-seat twin-engine plane but will not be partners, Boeing said after months of industry speculation about possible Japanese participation.
The arrangement may help allay concerns that Boeing might be giving away vital aircraft technology to Japanese companies in return for investments, but Boeing officials said this concern was not an important factor in the negotiations.
Some economists had argued that the proposed partnership would give invaluable help to Japan's efforts to become a power in aerospace, one of the few industries in which the United States remains a leader. In that light, some analysts view the agreement as a setback for the Japanese, who appear to have given ground to avoid criticism that they are pushing their way into too big a role in American business. 
 
Entirely New Plane
The 767-X will be an entirely new aircraft that will be larger than the existing 767 but smaller than the four-engine 747 jumbo jet.
Under the terms of the agreement signed on Thursday, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Fuji Heavy Industries will share responsibility for providing Boeing with 15 to 20 percent of the 767-X's airframe. The three companies already provide about 15 percent of the current 767, including fuselage panels and aerodynamic fairings - parts that smooth the aircraft's contours - and they are expected to supply similar items plus additional airframe structures for the new plane.
Development costs are estimated at $4 billion, and analysts said that Boeing would have no trouble raising such an amount by itself but that a working partnership now could have become important for more costly future aircraft, like the proposed second-generation supersonic transport.
At an estimated development cost of more than $30 billion, that aircraft will be beyond any single company's financial strength. At the end of the year, Boeing had $1.21 billion in cash; it now has a backlog of orders for 1,710 airplanes, which is equivalent to about $90 billion.
Under the new agreement, the role of the Japanese companies will be managed through the project office at Boeing and will have staff in that office. On the older 767, they are simply subcontractors arranged through Boeing's materiel division.
As a partner, the Japanese would have been much more deeply involved in sales, marketing and technology, said a Boeing spokesman, T. Craig Martin. Under a partnership, they would have sent 200 to 300 engineers to Seattle to work on various aspects, gaining valuable experience for future aircraft manufacturing in Japan. As suppliers, they will send fewer engineers, the spokesman said, and they will have a smaller role.
 
More Than the Others
The new arrangement ''signifies that the Japanese are more involved and higher up than other suppliers,'' said Lawrence W. Clarkson, senior vice president for government and international affairs of the Boeing Commercial Airplane Group. In addition, Boeing is interested in acquiring program management techniques and manufacturing technology from the Japanese concerns.
The three Japanese companies were to be partners in Boeing's aborted 7J7 propfan aircraft, a fuel-efficient 150-seat plane. But they were unwilling to meet Boeing's minimum 25 percent stake to play a similar role in the much larger and more costly 767-X program, Mr. Clarkson said. ''The 25 percent of that pie was really a bigger piece than the Japanese wanted to swallow, given their other commitments,'' he said.
In addition, Mr. Clarkson said, Japanese partners would have limited Boeing's ability to take advantage of domestic sources, which have lately become available because of diminished military spending in the United States.
Mr. Clarkson said Boeing had ''kept the relevant people in Washington informed'' and had not been under pressure from officials to exclude the Japanese. ''The arrangement we have does not give them access to technology they would need to compete with Boeing,'' he said.
 
There Are Critics
But the supplier relationship still has its critics, including Clyde T. Prestowitz, a former Commerce Department trade negotiator and a Japan specialist with the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington. Noting headlines today in the Japanese press that Toray Industries, a Japanese company, will supply the carbon fiber for the 767-X, he said this ''suggests that an American composites manufacturer is not going to be in on one of the largest projects ever.''
And while Boeing said the Japanese decision not to invest was purely economic, Richard J. Samuels, director of the Japan Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said he believed that the Japanese had wanted to avoid a new controversy after the strife generated by Japanese-American collaboration on the FSX, a next-generation fighter jet for the Japanese military.
''I don't believe it got too expensive for the Japanese,'' Mr. Samuels said. Accepting a less visible role was ''politically a very savvy move.''
 
Delivery in 1995
Boeing expects to receive its first firm orders for the 767-X this summer, when its designation will be changed to 777, and to deliver the first planes in 1995.
It will need to be good to compete with the Airbus Industrie A330, a similar-sized and efficient plane introduced a year and a half ago, said Mortem S. Beyer, president of Avmark Inc., an airline consulting firm based in Arlington, Va. The A330, which will begin delivery in 1993, has already ''gobbled up a couple hundred orders, and people seem to like it,'' he said.
''In this business, the guy first off the blocks has a very significant advantage,'' Mr. Beyer said. ''Boeing at this point is in the position of playing catch-up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 7011 (TSE) (55%); 7270 (TSE) (55%); 7012 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (55%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (55%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES USA INC (55%); MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (55%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (55%); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD; KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD; FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; 767X AIRPLANE; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US AIRLINES (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M LAWRENCE W CLARKSON (64%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (57%); 



327 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Simple Request by Zaire's Leader Spurs Troubling Torrent by Critics

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, April 12

 BODY:
It all seemed innocuous enough. In January, President Mobutu Sese Seko announced that he would hold a series of public hearings throughout Zaire, ''a direct dialogue with the people,'' to better gauge their concerns.
Not that anything was seriously amiss, Mr. Mobutu insisted. In a nationally broadcast speech, he said the political changes sweeping through Eastern Europe were ''of no concern to Zaire.'' The President vowed that Zaire would remain a one-party state, led by ''the Father and the God of the nation,'' as Mr. Mobutu is often called in party literature. 
But Mr. Mobutu's exercise in civic understanding appears to have backfired, threatening his 25-year grip on power in this sprawling central African country of 34 million people.
Spurred by promises that they can speak freely and honestly, more than 5,000 church groups, unions, business organizations and individuals have submitted written critiques to the President. The result has been an outpouring of sentiment against Mr. Mobutu and his autocratic rule.
 
'Results Are Devastating'
''This is the first true public debate ever held on Mobutu and his policies, and the results are devastating,'' an African diplomat said.
Mr. Mobutu and a coterie are accused, among other things, of mismanaging Zaire's economic development, of squandering public funds on grandiose and unnecessary schemes and of allowing corruption to flourish.
To be sure, Mr. Mobutu has also been criticized abroad for Zaire's human rights record and accused of corruption and economic malfeasance. In addition, Democrats in the United States Congress are moving to cut aid to Zaire.
But the public criticism of Mr. Mobutu's policies are is virtually unheard of at home, and those who dare to object have often been imprisoned or forced into internal exile.
So far, Mr. Mobutu has declined to make the responses public, but thousands of copies are being distributed clandestinely throughout Kinshasha. Diplomats, journalists and others who have read them say they are virtually unanimous in calling for major political and economic reforms.
 
Especially Critical of the Party
The responses have been especially critical of the ruling party, the People's Revolutionary Movement, of which all Zairians are required to be members from birth.
''The idea that the M.P.R. is the vanguard of a revolutionary movement that should have been discarded a long time ago,'' a Zairian dissident said, referring to the party by its French initials. ''Zaire is a dictatorship and everyone knows it.''
The Conference of Bishops, for example, an influential group of Catholic hierarchy, called for the adoption of a new constitution that would end the ruling party's monopoly on power. ''The social and moral environment that we live in has been contaminated,'' said the conference, a group which in the past has rarely criticized Government policies.
Similarly, a leading labor group, the National Union for Zairian Workers, called for multiparty democracy, free elections and a ''depoliticization'' of the army.
 
Security Forces Criticized
In much the same vein, a memorandum from municipal employees in Kinshasha criticized security forces for their unchecked ability to ''intimidate and repress the population.''
''We knew we were taking a chance for saying this,'' said a businessman who helped draft a memorandum calling for Mr. Mobutu to resign, ''but it is either now or never.''
Makau Mutua, the Africa Project director for the Lawyer's Committee for Human Rights, who visited Zaire last month, said, ''People have spoken up quite openly and attacked the party and the Government.''
''The cumulative message,'' he said in a telephone interview, ''is that the Government has failed.''
So far, some here say Mr. Mobutu has reacted magnanimously to the growing criticism, at least publicly. In a speech last month, the President urged citizens to ''be calm, stay calm.''
''The will of the majority will be respected,'' he said. ''We will proceed together on the changes wanted by the majority.
''But we will do it quietly, not under pressure from excited people.''
More recently, when university students protested Government austerity measures by burning vehicles and looting stores, witnesses say the police reacted with unusual restraint. Dozens of arrests were made, but generally without the beatings and other violence that sometimes follow such protests.
''Our strong impression was that the security forces were under orders not to react in an excessive manner so as not to ignite further disturbances,'' a Western diplomat said.
 
Debate in Print Quashed
At the same time, Mr. Mobutu has not been reluctant to quash debate when it seemed to go too far. Jeune Afrique, a French-language weekly on African affairs, was banned after it published excerpts from the letters submitted by the Bishops.
Mr. Mobutu then accused the bishops of leaking their comments to the foreign press and the diplomatic community. He said their actions disqualified their opinions from any further consideration.
The question now is how Mr. Mobutu will use the advice. This week the President announced that on April 24 he would unveil a series of ''major political changes,'' but he gave no hint of what they might entail.
But some statements from Mr. Mobutu have already raised expectations that will be difficult to fulfill.
''It's clear that there is increasing agitation for real reform,'' a Zairian businessman said. ''Large numbers of people, perhaps most, doubt that he's capable of making the necessary changes. That could spell disaster.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, whose recent exercise in civic understanding appears to have backfired, threatening his 25-year hold on power. (Paul Conklin)(pg2); Map of Zaire showing location of Kinshasa. (pg2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WRITERS (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RELIGION (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (94%); 



328 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: In Appalachia, Vast Change but New Troubles

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CRANKS, Ky.

 BODY:
In Harlan County, where the coal tipples jut out from the black hills like ungainly prehistoric birds, coal is still king, but it rules a forlorn, beleaguered kingdom.
''Harlan is the sorriest place around,'' said Randy Daniels, a 24-year old unemployed laborer, as he huddled by a coal-burning heater one rainy afternoon. ''They say they're going to put factories in, but they're not going to do nothing in Harlan. From what I can tell, things are just as bad as they used to be.''
A quarter century after the nation's War on Poverty centered on the desperate squalor of Appalachia, there has been some striking progress and some tragic decay in the region, where officials estimate that 2.5 million people live below the poverty line. 
But the progress masks the economic straits of the region's 90 severely depressed counties, mostly the coal-producing areas of West Virgiania, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee, in the heart of the region. In the past decade 70,000 jobs in the coal industry have been lost in the region, and old economic problems are compounded by new environmental ones.
After an economic resurgence in the 1970's, life for poor people in the coal country is still much the way the Mayor of Sneedville, Tenn., Charles Turner, described the area in the 1960's when he said, ''We were below the bottom looking up to see the bottom.''
Appalachia's problems received a brief flurry of national attention recently when regional tourism officials reacted angrily to a proposed tour by a San Francisco-based group that billed Appalachia as ''the third world in the U.S.''
The group, Global Exchange, is not a tourist agency, but rather a research and education center that brings people involved in community and social causes to meet with others doing similar work, usually in third world nations. The group plans to meet in June with community organizations in Tennessee, Kentucky, Virginia and perhaps West Virginia.
''These people may have the greatest motives, but the way they marketed it says, 'the third world equals West Virginia,' '' said West Virginia's Commerce Commissioner, John Brown, whose criticism was echoed by officials in Kentucky and Tennessee.
''That reinforces a stereotype that has no credibility,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We don't all sit on porches picking banjoes and sipping moonshine.''
 
Poverty Is Greatly Reduced
In fact, much has changed in Appalachia, where many areas have diversified their economy, and where 2,500 new miles of highway has diminished the crushing isolation of some mountain communities.
''You can see the change in children's eyes,'' said Francis E. Moravitz, executive director of the Appalachian Regional Commission, formed in 1965 to foster economic development in the region running from southern New York to northern Mississippi. ''In the early 1960's, the image of an Appalachian child was a gaunt, hungry, dirty face. Today they look like children all over.''
But here in Harlan County, made famous in the 1930's by the violent labor upheaval that earned it the name ''Bloody Harlan,'' many of the faces still recall the depression-era photographs of Walker Evans.
Cranks is a mountain community of perhaps 500 people nestled in the brooding hollows between the Cumberland and Pine Mountains, where neat brick homes stand just down the road from rickety shacks with junk-strewn yards and outhouses.
Like most of his friends, Mr. Daniels dropped out of high school early, expecting to find work in the coal fields or timber mills. Instead, he is lucky to find seasonal work mowing grass at an apartment building in town.
 
'There's Just No Work'
''I went to Virginia a while back and put in 20 applications at the sawmills, but never heard from one of them,'' he said, while watching television at Flossie Brown's cluttered frame house with its weathered religious pictures hanging at odd angles on the walls. ''There's just no work nowhere.'' The coal haulers still roar through the winding mountain roads here, and coal mining directly or indirectly still accounts for an overwhelming majority of the economic activity. But after a boom in the 1970's, mechanization, competition with other fuels and now Federal clean air regulations are casting new shadows on the region.
The county's unemployment rate last year stood at 9.4 percent, but residents say the figure is misleadingly low. It does not account for those who have long since stopped looking for work, or those making do with part-time work or those who have gone elsewhere.
Unemployment in Harlan County peaked at 24.3 percent in 1983, and the work force declined to 11,682 at the end of 1989 from 13,672 in 1980. Similarly, McDowell County, in the heart of the West Virginia coal fields, lost 19 percent of its population in the 1980's, and more than half the state's 55 counties lost more than 5 percent of their jobs. #70,000 Coal Mining Jobs Lost Throughout the region, about 70,000 coal mining jobs have been lost in the last 10 years, and there is little optimism about a resurgence.
For some of those who stay, there are new environmental worries compounding the old economic ones. Wilma Garrett, old beyond her 55 years, lives in a tumbledown shack, its yard strewn with junked furniture, without any running water.
On a rainy day, water washes down, rust colored and laced with chemicals, from the mine sites in the hills and rushes, through the gullies in front of her home. More unsettling still is the deathly green color of the local lake that fishermen frequented before its pollution.
Mrs. Garrett says her 6-year-old granddaughter recently broke out in boils after playing in a polluted creek near her home. Much of the available well water is so polluted it cannot be used in any form.
''There's no way to purify it,'' she said. ''The more you boil it, the redder it gets, like syrup.''
A regional citizens' group, Kentuckians for the Commonwealth, says more than 20 percent of the water wells in eastern Kentucky have been contaminated or lost because of pollution from mining activity.
Still, many parts of Appalachia have shown remarkable progress, and people bitterly resent the caricatured ''Beverly Hillbillies'' stereotypes that still linger.
The area covered by the Appalachian Regional Commission includes parts of 12 states in addition to all of West Virginia. It includes 397 counties, of which 90 are still severely distressed.
After the poverty rate declined to 14 percent in 1980 from 31.2 percent in 1960, officials estimate that the rate has declined slightly over the past decade in the region's 195,000 square miles that the Government classifies as Appalachia. That would leave about about 2.5 million of the region's 21 million residents living below the Federal poverty line, which was $12,675 for a family of four in 1989.
Sam Dayton heads the Georgia Mountains Regional Development Center, one of the local planning groups created by the regional commission, and covers 13 counties in the northern part of the state.
 
Turnaround Called Dramatic
The counties closest to Atlanta are doing better than the ones further north, but Mr. Dayton said the overall turnaround since the 1960's was dramatic.
For example, he said Dawson County in northern Georgia had an unemployment rate of 29 percent in the 1960's, with a median family income about a third the national figure. Today it is the fastest-growing of the 13 counties Mr. Dayton oversees, with a median family income that is about 75 percent of the national average. Like much of the region, it has gone from rural to exurban, feeding off metropolitan economies and luring retirees, tourism and some small business.
''The economic turnaround seen here is nothing short of an economic miracle,'' he said.
For other areas with less apparent successes, the progress has come in the slow process of building roads, sewers and other facilities to support a more broad-based economy. In the most hard-hit areas, the same type of building is part of a strategy for preparing for a world beyond coal.
 
'We Are Going to Outlive Coal'
''If we can survive 100 years of cyclical coal, we can beat this too,'' said Roger Recktenwald, head of an area development district centered in Pikeville, Ky., where coal is virtually the only industry and a quarter of the population lives at or below the national poverty line. ''We are going to outlive coal.''
Many simply leave, heading for Knoxville or Atlanta or Charlotte. But, for the uneducated poor of Appalachia, the cities often cannot provide the economic opportunity they once did.
When the President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty began, Appalachia was viewed as a isolated pocket that had somehow missed out on the nation's prosperity. Today, the region's problems - inadequate education, a degraded environment, lack of control over its economy - differ only in degree from the nation's.
''A lot of those people who left looking for work in Detroit are right back in Pikeville now looking for work,'' said Mr. Recktenwald.
 
Some Stay Because It Is Home
But if some stay because they have no choice, many others stay simply because it is home, a place of startling beauty and rich culture for all its problems.
One of these is Becky Simpson, whose cluttered home is the site of a remarkable 11-year-old community group, the Cranks Creek Survival Center. The center provides food and clothing for hundreds of poor mountain people monthly. Busloads of volunteers come from around the country to help in projects, including building or rebuilding 79 homes in the past four years.
The mountain hollow where Mrs. Simpson's ancestors settled and where she grew up is now a mine site. There is a silt pond where her home was, and she is fighting a strip mine she fears will inevitably bury her family graveyard.
Still, she cannot imagine being anywhere else.
''I feel peace of mind when I come back here,'' she said. ''This hollow was our whole world. You can't just forget it and walk away.''


GRAPHIC: Wilma Garrett and her grandchildren live in a tumbledown shack without running water in Cranks, Ky. (The New York Times/Alan S. Weiner)(pg. 1); Squalor and high unemployment remain in Harlan County, Ky., 25 years after the nation's ''War on Poverty'' began in Appalachia. ''Harlan is the sorriest place around,'' said Randy Daniels, an unemployed laborer, sitting in a friend's home in Cranks, Ky. (The New York Times/Alan S. Weiner); Some people, like Becky Simpson, stay in Cranks by choice despite the problems. Ms. Simpson is battling the development of a new strip mine that threatens to bury her family's cemetery. (NYT)(pg. 10); Map of Kentucky showing location of Cranks. (pg.
Photo: Environmental worries and poverty still plague Appalachia a quarter century after the War on Poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS; WEST VIRGINIA; KENTUCKY; VIRGINIA; TENNESSEE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COAL POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); COUNTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); POVERTY RATES (69%); TOURISM (65%); TRENDS (64%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 



329 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Baker Presses Lawmakers to Back A Strategy of Talks in El Salvador

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Hoping to prevent Congress from cutting aid to El Salvador when lawmakers return to work next week, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d is lobbying Democratic leaders to give the Administration time to encourage peace negotiations between the Salvadoran Government and leftist guerrillas.
The Baker effort represents an attempt to undercut opposition from Congressional Democrats to the Administration policy of continuing substantial levels of economic and military support for the Government of President Alfredo Cristiani.
Since six Jesuit priests were killed in San Salvador in November, many top Democrats have lost patience with Administration arguments that quiet pressure can improve El Salvador's human-rights performance. Officials in Washington and El Salvador are nearly unanimous in saying that the killings were the work of a right-wing death squad tied to the military. 
Democrats have responded to Mr. Baker's initiative by insisting that the Administration take a harder line on human-rights abuses in El Salvador.But there appears to be some support for trying to reduce partisan friction over aid to El Salvador.
 
Plan for Bipartisan Policy
A top Administration official said Mr. Baker was trying to duplicate his successful effort last year to build bipartisan support for the Bush Administration's policy toward Nicaragua. Mr. Baker convinced Congressional leaders to back food, clothing and other aid for the Nicaraguan rebels in exchange for Administration promises to support elections in Nicaragua. Bush aides credit that policy with ending the contra war and leading to the landslide defeat of President Daniel Ortega Saavedra in February.
The Administration is proposing that El Salvador, which has received more than $4 billion in United States aid since 1980, receive $86 million in military aid and $229 million in economic assistance in fiscal 1990. Democratic leaders have threatened to slash those figures by half or more.
Mr. Baker held separate meetings last week with top lawmakers from both houses, in which he urged them to hold off proposals to cut or condition assistance to El Salvador until they could join the Administration in creating a new bipartisan policy based on negotiations and human rights.
Bernard W. Aronson, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, said Mr. Baker's message to the lawmakers was, ''We think for the first time there is a real possibility to achieve peace but we can't help that happen if we turn El Salvador into a partisan issue.''
 
Motivation for Joint Policy
He said Mr. Baker assured the lawmakers that the Administration shared their concern on human rights and the slow pace of judicial revisions in San Salvador, and that a bipartisan approach was the way to increase Washington's leverage over the Cristiani Government.
Mr. Aronson said Mr. Baker would come back to the Congressional leadership next week, after the Easter recess, to hear their suggestions and hopefully work out a joint policy.
At least some Democrats apparently took Mr. Baker's appeal to heart. Democratic members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee postponed drafting an amendment to an appropriations bill for emergency aid to Panama and Nicaragua that would have conditioned further military aid to El Salvador on improvements in human rights.
''You're likely to get a policy reassessment with an agreement,'' a House aide said. ''This is motivated on both sides to see if a meeting of the minds can be reached on Salvador.''
 
Meetings With 40 Lawmakers
Senator Alan Cranston of California, the Democratic whip, said despite the meeting with Mr. Baker, he continued to oppose military aid to El Salvador until the Salvadoran Government ''reins in the death squads and prosecutes the killers.''
''I am not alone in this view,'' he continued. ''But I think they might be able to get enough support to keep military aid to El Salvador going, unfortunately.''
While more than 70,000 people have died in El Salvador's fighting since 1979, no Salvadoran military officer has been prosecuted for a human-rights abuse.
Mr. Baker laid out the Administration view of the Salvadoran situation to about 40 ranking Senators and Congressmen in four seperate meetings, arguing that the 11-year civil war is at a critical stage.
 
Lessons of Rebel Offensive
He said he saw the April 4 agreement between the guerrillas and the Cristiani Government in Geneva to begin regular peace talks next month as the most serious effort yet to negotiate an end to the conflict.
In Mr. Baker's view, both sides have reason to negotiate. The guerrillas, he said, seem to understand that geopolitical trends, particularly after the Nicaraguan elections and the United States invasion of Panama, are going against them. The Salvadoran Army learned from the huge guerrilla offensive in November that the rebels were not about to wither away under military pressure.
But Mr. Baker also cautioned that the Salvadoran rebels, known as the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, were preparing for a new offensive with renewed shipments of heavy explosives and AK-47 assault rifles from Cuba and Nicaragua. If Congress threatened to cut aid to San Salvador, Mr. Baker argued, it would encourage the guerrillas to launch an all-out offensive that could untrack the new peace initiative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NICARAGUA (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; EL SALVADOR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ALFREDO CRISTIANI (57%); 



330 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International#2-5
 
Lithuania received an ultimatum from President Gorbachev. He said that if the republic did not rescind its major independence measures within 48 hours, he would order other republics to cut off supplies. Page 1
 
Imposition of economic sanctions against Lithuania would violate Moscow's stated policy of seeking to resolve the stalemate without force, President Bush said. He described the Kremlin's ultimatum as ''deeply disturbing.'' 4
 
President Jaruzelski of Poland was given cartons of documents that President Gorbachev said ''indirectly but convincingly'' proved that the Soviet secret police killed thousands of Polish officers in Katyn forest in the spring of 1940. 5
 
Poles urge charges in Katyn massacre 5
 
Moscow journal: A gulag survivor and his U.S. passport 4
 
An outpouring of sentiment in Zaire against President Mobutu Sese Seko and his autocratic rule has been the result of Mr. Mobutu's ''direct dialogue with the people.'' 1
 
Peace negotiations in El Salvador between the Government and leftist guerrillas are being encouraged by the Bush Administration, which has been lobbying Congress not to cut aid to San Salvador. 2
 
Colombian rebels lay down their arms 3
 
The development of the 767-X, Boeing's planned airliner, will be financed by the company without assistance from three Japanese aerospace companies. But they will be major suppliers. 1 
 
A leader of the student movement crushed in Tiananmen Square last June said she was able to avoid arrest by the Chinese Government for 10 months thanks to the protection and encouragement of ordinary citizens. 3
 
Taiwan's mainland efforts widen 29
 
A pact between India and Nepal ending a yearlong trade dispute is in danger of falling victim to the unsettled political situation in Katmandu and to India's preoccupation with a steadily worsening crisis in Kashmir. 3
 
A new government in Nepal could be led by the pro-democracy movement. King Birendra reportedly approved formation of a new government after he met with the principal opposition leader. 3
 
National 6-10
 
The desperate squalor of Appalachia has been reduced somewhat during the 25 years of the nation's War on Poverty. But while there has been some striking progress, there has also been some tragic decay. 1
 
The money cut from the Pentagon in the next several years should be earmarked for education, medical care and other social problems, some prominent Democrats have begun to argue. 10
 
Ex-senator ends retirement and faces election issue 10
 
Bonwit Teller has fallen a long way in 20 years. Once one of the nation's most celebrated fashion retailers, the store this week began going-out-of-business sales. 1
 
A little-known museum in Cincinnati, the Contemporary Arts Center, was thrust into the limelight when it sponsored an exhibition of photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe. At the center of the controversy is the museum's director, Dennis Barrie. 6
 
Cincinnati's hard-line sheriff, Simon Leis, has made a career and a crusade out of the war against pornography. His deputies cleared out the Contemporary Arts Center and hand-delivered indictments on obscenity charges to Mr. Barrie. 6
 
Faulty parts for the space shuttle may have been supplied by a Florida company. A Federal investigation has begun into allegations that labels were switched on parts used in the shuttle program and in several crucial weapons systems. 6
 
Seeds exposed to radiation in space for six years will be as safe to eat as ordinary tomatoes, NASA said. The space agency was seeking to reassure parents of children participating in classroom experiments. 6
 
U.S. care for Chernobyl hero 7
 
Foreigners who have the AIDS virus and who want to attend conferences in the U.S. will be issued new no-questions-asked visas by the the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Bush Administration said. 7
 
The effort to curb drug abuse in Washington had results that were ''not nearly as good as anyone would like,'' William J. Bennett conceded. But the national drug policy adviser insisted that the campaign was not a failure. 8
 
For Philadelphians, a museum of the future 7
 
Climbing tuition tied to shrinking student pool 9
 
Regional 25-28
 
A subway rider killed his assailant Thursday night on a Brooklyn express train. After the man was beaten and robbed, he drew a pistol from beneath his trenchcoat, shot one of four attackers and then calmly walked away at the next station. 1
 
Crucial differences seen in two subway shootings 27
 
The youth shot dead by a policeman in Teaneck, N.J., had been ''fooling around'' with a BB pistol with friends before officers confronted them, teen-agers who were with him said. 1
 
A witness in the Bensonhurst case with a history of drug abuse has left a drug-treatment program and created a new problem for the prosecution. The murder trial begins Monday. 25
 
A standoff on an Indian territory in upstate New York appeared to be at an end when a community of Mohawks and a squad of investigators put down their guns and took down their roadblocks. But now there is a new impasse. 25
 
News analysis: It takes a crisis for bad habits to be broken in New York State politics. This was demonstrated on Thursday when state leaders agreed to a plan to eliminate New York's annual spring borrowing. 1
 
The battle over cable TV franchises in Manhattan took an unexpected twist. The Conflicts of Interest Board ruled that City Council President Andrew J. Stein may not vote on the renewals as a member of the Board of Estimate. 25
 
The Dinkinses paid taxes totaling one-third of income 27
 
People are crying out for parks in lower Manhattan. Lured to places like SoHo and TriBeCa by a promise of more space, of a more liveable urban life, many residents there are beginning to feel their hopes have been betrayed. 25
 
Business Digest 29
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
A talk with Margaret Atwood 13
 
Hunger for art in New Delhi 13
 
''Twin Peaks'' tops an ABC rating 38
 
Theater: ''Cities Out of Print'' 16
 
A play about Gogol 17
 
Film: ''Angel Town'' 16
 
Music: Slatkin leads the Philharmonic 12
 
Continuum plays Henry Cowell 14
 
Music Amici 16
 
Dance: Boston Ballet 14
 
Miami Ballet in Philadelphia 15
 
Book: The assault on the Earth 16
 
Consumer's World 40
 
Monitoring cosmetics safety
 
Coping with expense records
 
Last-minute tax rush
 
Guidepost
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Perez wins for Yanks 35
 
Mets beat Expos 37
 
Cubs beat Pirates 37
 
Column: Berkow on Graziano 35
 
Golf: Four double bogeys slow Nicklaus 37
 
Hockey: Rangers advance 35
 
Devils lose 35
 
Canadiens win 37
 
Horse Racing: Champagne-forashley wins 38
 
Sports People 38
 
Tennis: Graf is tested 38
 
Obituaries 11
 
John Ruskin Graham, a physician and educator
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials 22
 
Truth, healing in East Europe
 
Dolphins and double hulls
 
Medicaid tail, hospital dog
 
Breaking faith with landlords
 
Letters 22
 
Flora Lewis: When art triumphs 23
 
Russell Baker: Miracle all over town 23
 
Allan Nadler: From Zion, not from Brooklyn 23
 
Harlan W. Jencks: As empires rot, nuclear civil war? 23
 
Eugene J. McCarthy: Democracy without taxation 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); 

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (94%); NEPAL (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); COLOMBIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (55%); CONTEMPORARY ARTS CENTER (57%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); EXHIBITIONS (65%); RETAILERS (62%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



331 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
New Soviet Threat 'Disturbing' to Bush

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAMILTON, Bermuda, April 13

 BODY:
Speaking with unusual force about the Lithuanian crisis, President Bush said today that he and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain found reports of a Kremlin ultimatum to the Baltic republic ''deeply disturbing.'' Mr. Bush said imposition of economic sanctions against Lithuania would violate Moscow's stated policy of seeking to resolve the stalemate over Lithuania's desire for independence without force.
''Now is no time for escalation; it's time for talks,'' Mr. Bush said, speaking for himself and for Mrs. Thatcher at a news conference here.
Mrs. Thatcher added: ''We've come a long way in relations between the Soviet Union and the free world. We wish that improvement to continue, but it could not continue if the Soviet Union were to resolve this by force.'' 
Neither the President nor Mrs. Thatcher would say what they would or could do if President Mikhail S. Gorbachev carried out a threat to suspend shipments of vital supplies, possibly including oil and natural gas, to Lithuania if certain laws are not rescinded in two days. The two leaders also tried to couch their remarks as diplomatically as possible.
Still, their statements after talks represented a marked change by Mr. Bush, who has carefully avoided commenting on developments in the Soviet Union in recent weeks. Mrs. Thatcher has also been restrained in her public statements about Lithuania, restricting herself to calls for peaceful dialogue that she and Mr. Bush repeated today.
The two leaders said they were basing their remarks on a news report about Mr. Gorbachev's threat and declined to go into much detail on the development.
Mr. Bush said the two had learned of the ultimatum only moments before their news conference began and added that their Governments had not yet independently confirmed the details. But United States officials said the White House had in fact learned of it 90 minutes earlier and that Mr. Bush and Mrs. Thatcher had been handed the dispatch about 30 minutes before they emerged from their private conversations to take questions.
The fact that the intensely cautious Mr. Bush, acting for himself and Mrs. Thatcher, chose to bring up the news report at the outset of the news conference, before they were asked about it, illuminated the alarm with which the two leaders viewed the Kremlin's ultimatum more than their words did.
 
On Germany and NATO
Mr. Bush and Mrs. Thatcher said the Lithuanian question, as well as broader issues of German unification and reorganization of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, occupied much of their four hours of talks at the cream-colored stucco colonial palace that is Hamilton's Government House.
Since the news report from Moscow was given to the two leaders toward the end of the talks, it was not clear how much time they could have devoted to discussing Mr. Gorbachev's demand that Lithuania rescind a series of laws its Parliament has passed since the declaration of independence.
''Obviously, there has been no time to look into this matter in detail or determine all the facts,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But we have been calling on Moscow publicly and privately for avoiding escalatory measures in favor of dialogue.''
Mrs. Thatcher said that she and Mr. Bush had agreed in advance on what he would say about Mr. Gorbachev's threat.
 
Reluctant at First
At first, Mr. Bush was reluctant to characterize the ultimatum or say whether it violated Mr. Gorbachev's promises not to use force to keep Lithuania within the Soviet Union. But he later said: ''Am I concerned about the report? If it proves to be accurate, the answer is yes, because it goes against the policy of dialogue and a no-coercion dialogue that will result in peaceful evolution of democracy and self-determination.
''So I'm concerned about the report. I'm concerned about the timing. But I just don't want to comment any further.''
Mrs. Thatcher bristled when asked about reports that Mr. Gorbachev had told a delegation of United States senators in Moscow this week that he did not want ''lectures'' from the West on how to handle Lithuania.
''We're just not lecturing anyone, but we're entitled to express a view,'' she said.
The Prime Minister added: ''We've frequently expressed it. This is not a problem that should be solved by force and which cannot be solved by force. It therefore must be solved by discussion. We had a duty to say what we think. We still think that way and we still think that is the only way to go.''
Mr. Bush has said the use of force in Lithuania would set back Soviet-American relations at a time when arms control and other issues appearing to be moving forward relatively smoothly. A major dispute in the relationship could also jeopardize the summit meeting planned in the United States for May 30 to June 3.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said the Soviet Union's use of force against Lithuania could hinder improvement in relations between the Soviet Union and the free world. The two leaders received kites yesterday from Bermuda schoolchildren during an exhibition of kite flying. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); BALTIC STATES (92%); BERMUDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HAMILTON, BERMUDA (74%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; HAMILTON (BERMUDA); WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); POLITICS (73%); NATURAL GAS (72%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



332 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: A Museum That Looks to the Future

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 13

 BODY:
This city, which has a reputation of being the elderly custodian of the Liberty Bell and other national heirlooms, is about to exhibit 90,000 square feet of the future.
The Futures Center is to open May 4, a new $71 million wing of the Franklin Institute, which is a 57-year-old science and technology museum on Benjamin Franklin Parkway.
The center is well grounded in history. It rises above the former site of the Magdalen Society Home for Fallen Women. Quakers, who built the home in 1800, were reported to have spent an entire year trying to find a fallen woman who was willing to be reformed. But that is another story. 
The new wing of the institute has the oxymoronic billing as a museum of the future. ''You almost automatically expect museums to be about old stuff, but this one will be forward-thinking,'' said Joel N. Bloom, president and director of the institute. ''We won't try to predict the future, but show the technology that is shaping the future.''
Here, the future will always start about three years off, and visitors will see what is heading their way from the world's laboratories.
 
Dreams That May Come True
There will be exhibits of things like experimental high-speed trains propelled by magnets, or a computer microchip, lodged in the brain of Prosthetic Woman, that may help blind people to see. There will be prototypes of innovations like high-definition television and exhibits on undersea gardening.
And, deeper into the future, displays will focus on the frontiers of scientific inquiry, including nuclear fusion. The center's exhibits will deal with energy, materials, conservation, computers, health, space, careers and forecasting the future, which is what Prof. Arthur B. Shostak does.
Professor Shostak teachs sociology at Drexel University and advises the institute about his specialty, the period from 2015 to 12000. ''The center will help people sharpen their imagery of the possible, probable and preferable futures that we have responsibility for,'' he said.
A central theme of the center is that people have the power to mold the future. In the Choices Forum, a theater with 150 seats and voting buttons, the center will present documentaries about public policy issues, and then put alternatives up for a vote. People may vote for or against nuclear power or genetic engineering, and then see the consequences of their choice on the environment, economy and health.
Visitors will be able to walk into a throbing, sloshing human cell, magnified a million times to the size of a dome 30 feet across. If they wish, they can produce energy with the mitochondria, make proteins with the ribosomes or take charge of the nucleus when a virus attacks. The cell is the frontier of medicine, said Dr. Roberta Goldshlag Cooks, who developed the exhibit.
Exhibits are supposed to entertain and educate. ''People are primates; they learn by touching,'' Mr. Bloom said. ''We're show biz, and there is no conflict between that and first-class content.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction is almost complete on the Futures Center, the new $71 million wing of the 57-year-old Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. The center, to open May 4, is being billed as a museum of the future. (The New York Times/Chris Gardner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN INSTITUTE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FRANKLIN INSTITUTE (PHILADELPHIA, PA) FRANKLIN INSTITUTE; 

SUBJECT: NYTRAVEL MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (61%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); TRAINS (50%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 



333 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Climbing Tuition Tied to Shrinking Student Pool

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Competition for students and a decline in government support were the main reasons for huge tuition increases at private and public colleges in the 1980's, a new study says.
And while experts predict some relief in the 1990's, they say the price of higher education will still rise faster than inflation, at least until the last of the children born to the baby boom generation start to hit college age.
The new report, ''The College Tuition Spiral,'' was prepared for the College Board and the American Council on Education by Arthur Hauptman, an authority on higher-education finances. 
The report says the shrinking number of college-age youths has played a major role in tuition increases. Will Consumers Revolt? ''The continued decline in this age group through the mid-1990's suggests that college charges probably will continue to outpace inflation for the forseeable future,'' Mr. Hauptman concludes.
But he adds, ''It is difficult to imagine that consumers will be unlimited in their willingness to pay steadily rising college prices.'' He predicted that consumers would eventually rebel against price increases that are double the inflation rate.
From 1980 to 1987, the average annual increase in tuition and fees was slightly under 10 percent, nearly twice the overall increase in the cost of living.
The report also concludes that cutbacks in state aid in the early 1980's were a major factor in tuition increases at public colleges.
 
Why Tuition Went Up
Private colleges raised tuition to pay for better buildings, services and faculty salaries in attempts to maintain their share of a shrinking pool of potential students, the study said. The schools also expanded their own aid programs, a need provoked by cuts at the Federal level.
Furthermore, Mr. Hauptman wrote, with stagnating enrollments schools could no longer spread fixed costs over a growing number of students. And they had to spend more to recruit non-traditional students and counsel them.
Mr. Hauptman said an economic downturn in the next few years could force public institutions dependent on strained state resources to raise tuition but prompt private colleges to hold the line to keep from discouraging prospective students.
The trend of the 1980's was in sharp contrast to the late 1970's, when tuitions and other charges grew more slowly than inflation.
 
Needs Were Unmet
Richard Rosser, president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, representing 1,600 schools, said colleges had to charge more in the 1980's to catch up with needs that had gone unmet.
''Now there is probably going to be some leveling off and perhaps some decrease on the average,'' Mr. Rosser said. ''But it will still be more than the rate of inflation, because that doesn't relate very well to our true costs.''
Robert Atwell, president of the American Council on Education, said it would be harder for lower-priced schools to cut expenditures and keep tuition down because they were ''less selective and pretty strained already financially.''
But he said a combination of market resistance, the politics of the issue and a fall-off in applications would force a moderation. ''A drop in applications is a powerful statement; there's been some of that at some of the higher-priced institutions,'' Mr. Atwell said.
Charles Kolb, an assistant education under secretary for planning, said his department was taking a comprehensive look at college costs. He said preliminary research indicated that some colleges thought they could control many of the factors that fuel rising tuition. But he declined to be more specific.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (57%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (57%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (57%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE BOARD; EDUCATION, AMERICAN COUNCIL ON

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; FEDERAL AID (US); TUITION TUITION FEES (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); 

PERSON: HAUPTMAN, ARTHUR ARTHUR HAUPTMAN (85%); RICHARD ROSSER (57%); ROBERT ATWELL (57%); 



334 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: 2 Senators Say Peace Bonus Should Pay for Social Needs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

 BODY:
with President Bush and leaders in their own party, some prominent Democrats have begun to argue that the money cut from the Pentagon in the next several years should be earmarked for education, medical care and other social problems and should not merely be set aside to reduce the Federal deficit.
Their theme seems to be that the deficit was caused by Republicans and should be left to Republicans to resolve, and that Democrats should re-establish their claim as the party best suited to meet the nation's needs.
''At the very moment when so many Democrats seem timid or befuddled,'' Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts said this week, ''I see a new opportunity to shape new Democratic ideas and advance enduring Democratic ideas.''
Speaking at Georgetown University, Senator Kennedy said the Democratic Party could ''never regain the Presidency, or even ultimately keep its Congressional power, by disguising or repudiating our own basic identity.'' 
 
Cranston Lists Six Targets
The Democratic whip in the Senate, Alan Cranston of California, made a similar point in speeches throughout his state this week. Senator Cranston maintained that ''the lion's share of the peace dividend'' should be spent in six areas: education, health, drug control, housing, environmental protection and public works.
If, as a result of reduced East-West tensions, military spending is reduced by an average of only $10 billion a year, or about 3 percent, for the next 10 years, the Defense Department's budget in the year 2000 will be $100 billion lower than it is now, in 1990 dollars. The cumulative saving over the decade will be $550 billion.
Although the question of how to use that money may dominate American politics in the 1990's, politicians are only beginning to stake out their positions.
The President asserts that the peace dividend is largely a mirage and that the small sums that may prove real in the next few years must be used entirely to reduce the Federal deficit.
Many of Mr. Bush's critics say he is playing a cagey political game, deliberately avoiding policy decisions that might cause him to lose popularity. Whatever the case, most Republicans seem to feel comfortable taking the same stance as the President's, although a few have broken ranks.
For example, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas says the money should be returned to the people in the form of lower taxes, while Senator Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire favors a new ''Marshall Plan'' to strengthen the burgeoning democracies in Eastern Europe.
Among Democrats, however, a fundamental split has developed between the party leaders in Congress like the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, and the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, who maintain that deficit reduction must take top priority, and other lawmakers who take the politically aggressive position of favoring new spending for social programs.
 
Polls Back Domestic Spending
So far, Senators Kennedy and Cranston are the most prominent Democrats to speak out for more domestic spending. Opinion polls show this to be popular. A New York Times/CBS News Poll of 1,515 adults interviewed by telephone from March 30 through April 2 found that 61 percent support spending ''to fight problems such as drugs and homelessness,'' while 23 percent support reducing the deficit and only 9 percent favor lowering taxes. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
In his Georgetown speech, Senator Kennedy said that the ''end of the cold war'' presented his party with an opportunity to regain its footing. ''A transformed world,'' he said, ''can also transform our politics.''
He continued: ''Domestic programs, long shortchanged to finance defense, should not be depleted again in order to compensate for a deficit also swollen by the defense budget. Let us deal with the deficit as President Bush intended on the day he took office - not with a peace dividend, which he did not expect, but with a Gramm-Rudman process he has repeatedly endorsed.''
Mr. Kennedy was referring to the budget-balancing law, whose principal sponsors in the Senate were Mr. Gramm and Mr. Rudman.
Senator Kennedy proposed cutting the $300 billion military budget by 7 percent in the next fiscal year and by 5 percent more each year through 1995, figures far above the 2 percent cuts advocated by the President. Mr. Kennedy said his proposal would raise a cumulative $170 billion in the next five years.
 
How the Money Would Be Spent
Senator Cranston proposed cumulative cuts of $375 billion through 1997 and specified how he thought the money should be allocated: $123 billion for transportation, more than $60 billion each for education, housing and environmental cleanup, $53 billion for health programs, and $15 billion for crime prevention and drug control.
Neither Mr. Kennedy nor Mr. Cranston, who represent the liberal wing of their party, has the stature he once had in the Senate or in the party. But both are often successful in building coalitions behind positions they adopt.
One leading Democrat who takes issue with their approach is Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York. In an interview, he said reducing the deficit was the most important first step. ''Until you do that you cannot reduce borrowing,'' he said. ''Until you reduce borrowing, you can't reduce interest rates. And until you reduce interest rates, you can't jump-start the economy.''
Moreover, the Governor said, he would spend money to rebuild Eastern Europe before he began putting extra funds into domestic programs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who proposed cutting the $300 billion military budget by 7 percent in the next fiscal year. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (67%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) TED KENNEDY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 



335 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Margaret Atwood Reflects on a Hit

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
Family and friends gathered in the home of Margaret Atwood in November to celebrate her 50th birthday. With the lights off and joy and wine flowing freely, everyone was waving sparklers and singing - until the smoke alarm sounded and no one could find the switch to silence it.
In a way that incident, now taking on the aura of a family legend, is a symbol for some of Miss Atwood's more recent writing. For millions of readers in North America and elsewhere, Miss Atwood's chilling best-seller ''The Handmaid's Tale'' has become a warning about what could happen when a country is taken over by a theocracy in a quiet, almost frighteningly normal fashion. That concern is likely to increase, since a film version of the novel has been playing in the United States, Canada and Europe.
In the film as in the novel, part of a polluted United States, now called Gilead, is ruled by moralistic evangelicals who have relegated the remaining few fertile females, called handmaids, to the role of passive propagators. Miss Atwood's work, set in the Northeast, depicts a sterile, embattled world where women are divided into classes by color-coded clothing, where moral hypocrisy reigns and where abortion is a capital crime along with gender treachery (lesbianism). 
 
Multi-National Conference
The movie was produced by an American, Daniel Wilson, directed by a West German, Volker Schlondorff, adapted from Miss Atwood's novel by an Englishman, Harold Pinter, and interpreted by an international cast headed by Robert Duvall, Faye Dunaway and Natasha Richardson.
A fairly faithful adaptation of the grim and clever book, which has sold more than a million copies, the movie emerged from many hours of consultation among Mr. Schlondorff, Mr. Pinter and Miss Atwood around her kitchen counter here. Miss Atwood lives with her companion, Graeme Gibson, their daughter, Jess, and two cats named Fluffy and Blackie on a quiet, narrow residential street within primal screaming distance of Toronto's trendy Yorkville area.
In one sense the 1985 tale has helped mark an international coming of age for writers in Canada, a country that many elsewhere had long seen as a kind of decaffeinated America. Many years ago Hugh MacLennan, another Canadian novelist, described the literature of a young Canada as, ''Boy meets girl in Winnipeg, and who cares?'' But now an entire generation of worldly English Canadian writers, including Robertson Davies, Alice Munro, Mordecai Richler, Farley Mowat and Miss Atwood, are producing literature with themes that strike responsive chords throughout the English-speaking world and beyond.
 
In the Realm of Possibility
Sipping tea and munching ''sinful chocolate cookies'' in her kitchen, Miss Atwood called her best-known novel a ''what-if tale.'' The story for ''Handmaid'' began to emerge in 1980, she said, as individual images ignited by newspaper items and snippets of conversation. ''I didn't include anything that had not already happened, was not under way somewhere or that we don't have the technology to do,'' she said, For four years she collected thoughts and clippings and found that the handmaid story was interrupting her other writing. So she set other work aside and in 1984, during teaching stints in Berlin and Alabama, began writing the novel, which was published in Canada in 1985 and in the United States in 1986.
Her tale draws on details and artifacts from history and from many cultures. References, descriptions and borrowings include a Berlin-type wall, slave-breeding practices, chemical pollutants that affect human reproduction, Government birth and enforced-abortion decrees that draw from similar rules in Romania and China and codes of puritanical religious conduct that are found in fundamentalist Iran, Quaker Pennsylvania and 17th-century New England, where an ancestor of Miss Atwood's was once sentenced to hang as a witch. The white hood placed over the head of those being hanged in her tale is derived from 19th-century Canadian executions.
 
Inspired by the Bible
Miss Atwood recalled: ''I was reading the Bible - some of us still do that, you know - and I saw the tale of Jacob and his wives and handmaids, a kind of early Baby M. This is not an attack on Christianity, but the fact is Christians have long persecuted other sects and each other, as they are in Northern Ireland today.''
Then Miss Atwood applied that to some everyday themes. ''People were saying things like, 'A woman's place is in the home.' And I got to thinking, well, how would someone enforce thoughts like that?''
She is convinced that such enforcement would not come through grand pronouncements. ''The banality of evil is overwhelming,'' she said. ''People who do these kinds of things don't walk down the street frothing at the mouth and looking like Quasimodo. They don't announce, 'We're setting up concentration camps for people we don't like.' They perhaps help create chaos and then wait for society to plead for authoritarianism to help clean up the mess.''
That is the case among the rigidly puritanical and pious rulers of Gilead. As one of the ''Handmaid'' characters puts it: ''In the days of anarchy it was freedom to. Now you are being given freedom from.''
 
The Country Next Door
Miss Atwood chose to place her cautionary tale of extremism in the United States, that economically and culturally dominating neighbor many Canadians think of first when they want to feel frightened. ''The Handmaid's Tale'' seemed to gather additional credibility with the subsequent rise of the Moral Majority there, the Presidential candidacy of Pat Robertson and the sexual and financial imbroglios of various television ministries.
''In Canada,'' Miss Atwood maintained, ''they said, 'Could it happen here?' In England, they said, 'Jolly good yarn.' In the United States, they said, 'How long have we got?' ''
In Miss Atwood's mind the story unfolds around Harvard, where she attended graduate school. But because Harvard would not allow them to film on campus, the movie was filmed last year in North Carolina - around Duke University and in an abandoned cigarette factory.
Miss Atwood was fearful early on as she relinquished control of the story to the chaotic collaborative process that is movie-making. She said she provided only context for Mr. Schlondorff and Mr. Pinter, and corrected some script phrasing from British into American - changing hand cream into hand lotion, for instance.
 
Danger Averted
Miss Atwood pronounced herself happy with the movie version. ''This story,'' she said, ''could have been the most gross sexploitative film ever, sort of 'maidens on a sexual rampage.' ''
She said she enjoys the brief spurts of fame that accompany the release of a new book or movie. ''It's fun if you understand it's not serious, not real life,'' she said. ''It's interesting to experience and observe. But if you start seeing the billboards and believing you're Cinderella, then you're in very serious trouble creatively.''
Miss Atwood has stopped all outside activities to return to writing a new novel, subject unannounced, on her normal writing schedule. That involves covering a half-dozen legal pages in as many hours with handwriting each day and then typing and rewriting a handful of pages written several days previously. She finds this kind of hopscotching back and forth helps her insure consistency and gauge pacing and progress.
To relax, she consumes a murder mystery in two or three hours. ''I love them,'' she said. ''They reduce chaos to order and are not immediately threatening.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Margaret Atwood, whose 1985 best seller, ''The Handmaid's Tale,'' was filmed by Volker Schlondorff from a Harold Pinter screenplay. (Camera Press/Sally Soames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HANDMAID'S TALE, THE (MOVIE); HANDMAID'S TALE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: MANITOBA, CANADA (72%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; MOTION PICTURES NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); HOME SECURITY (78%); LITERATURE (75%); RELIGION (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); SMOKE DETECTORS (72%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (51%); 

PERSON: ATWOOD, MARGARET; MALCOLM, ANDREW H; PINTER, HAROLD MARGARET ELEANOR ATWOOD (97%); VOLKER SCHLONDORFF (54%); 



336 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Democracy Without Taxation

BYLINE: By Eugene J. McCarthy; Eugene J. McCarthy, a Democrat, was a Senator from Minnesota.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Throughout our history, protest and revolt against taxes have taken strange twists and turns.
The patriots of Boston, anticipating the Revolution, opened the antitax action by dumping tea into the harbor in protest against what they considered a discriminatory tax on their favorite (next to rum) drink. James Otis, an eminent Massachusetts lawyer, took up the cause, not by denouncing taxes, even particular ones, but by his bold and stirring declaration, ''Taxation without representation is tyranny.''
The implication of the Otis thesis -that taxation with representation was all right - was challenged in the Whiskey Rebellion of 1794. President George Washington, so far as the record shows, had not indicated in conversation, or in writing, or by lip movements, or hand signs, whether he was for taxes in general but not in particular, or against taxes in general or in particular. 
In any case, George put down the rebellion, and so the matter rested until well into the 20th century, with only minor protests - and with the positions one might expect from the two major parties in every Presidential campaign.
Neither party seriously challenged the right and need of government to impose and to collect taxes. George McGovern, in his 1972 Presidential campaign, proposed that the Government continue to collect taxes, and then return the collected revenue to all eligible persons, both to those who had paid at least $1,000 and to those who had not paid that much in taxes, or who had paid not any income taxes. The $1,000 was to fall on the just and the unjust in common, like biblical rain, taxpayers and nontaxpayers. The proposal was not well received by the electorate.
Jimmy Carter as a Presidential candidate asserted that the Tax Code was a ''disgrace to the human race,'' a declaration not wholly endorsed by Democratic members of Congress, who through the years had labored hard in drafting that code. As President, Mr. Carter proposed a variation on the McGovern proposition, and a variation on the ''rebate'' programs that the auto industry had introduced by the time he was sworn in. The amounts to be returned were smaller than that proposed by Mr. McGovern, and spread over the whole year.
Ultimately, Mr. Carter opted for what, in his campaign, he had called the ''cruelest tax'' - inflation, which rose from approximately 7 percent a year to approximately 13 percent during his Administration.
President Carter served, both through his declaration against the Tax Code rather than taxes and through his inaction on tax matters, as a precursor to President Ronald Reagan.
Under Mr. Reagan, the guiding principle became a variation of the Otis slogan: taxation with representation is tyranny. He proceeded, with a supporting Congress, to cut taxes, substituting Federal deficits and borrowed money for what had previously been called ''fiscal responsibility.'' This made future tax collections by the Government the most popular investment of the Japanese, Germans and others, who became heavy buyers of Government bonds.
The political secret of the Reagan policy was that the burden of paying off the accumulating debt would fall not on the next generation of taxpayers - who, anticipating that burden, might reject it - but on the generation succeeding them, a generation not in a position to do much about it.
President Bush has carried the anti-taxation theory of Mr. Reagan close to fulfillment, or has allowed it to be carried to that position, by the inner dynamism of the theory, which can best be expressed as ''representation without taxation.''
The danger is that, in the interim, before this idyllic state is reached, simple-minded or logical taxpayers, believing that the President is right in saying that all new taxes are bad and that most old ones should go, and members of Congress, might be moved to support Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's proposal to reduce Social Security taxes.
Beyond that, and consistent with President Bush's often declared position that people's money is best used if kept from the Government, taxpayers may, on their own, stop paying taxes, thus serving the common good and anticipating that happy state of a democracy without taxation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (96%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, EUGENE J JIMMY CARTER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



337 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Standoff Ends, but Not Mohawk Defiance

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: ALTONA, N.Y., April 13

 BODY:
When both sides put down their guns and took down their roadblocks earlier this week, an 11-day standoff between a community of Mohawks and a squad of investigators appeared to be at an end.
The Mohawks allowed the authorities a two-hour visit on their land here near Miner Lake, a dozen miles from Canada, from which someone had fired gunshots on March 30, forcing down a medical helicopter from the Vermont National Guard and wounding a doctor on board.
But now, just as the tensions seemed to have eased, there is a new impasse in the Ganienkeh Indian Territory. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has issued arrest warrants for at least 14 of the Mohawks, charging them with obstructing the investigation into the shooting. The Mohawks have defied the warrants, saying they are from a foreign government to which they are not answerable. 
The Mohawk encampment here poses an unusual difficulty for state officials. It is not a reservation, but land they agreed to move to in 1977 after abandoning a three-year armed siege of a former girls' camp in the Adirondacks.
While New York State says the Mohawks are on state land, the Mohawks say their territory is but the first reclaimed part of a nine-million-acre-territory - Ganienkeh, meaning ''Land of the Flint'' - to which they hold aboriginal claim. ''When you're a nation you have to act as a nation,'' Darryl Martin, a Mohawk who acts as a spokesman for the community, said in explaining why they took up guns and held authorities at bay. ''The state police came and surrounded the Indian people. What else were we supposed to do?'' A Guard at the Gateway An investigation by the Mohawks had determined that no member of the territory was responsible for the shots, he added.
The forested core of the Mohawks' 700-acre encampment remained sealed off to outsiders today. ''This land is sovereign territory and we must be left alone,'' said Onhathaias, a 21-year-old guard standing under a locked wooden gateway that proclaims, ''Repossessed Area of Ganienkeh Territory Established 50,000 B.C.''
Unlike Mr. Martin, the guard and many other Mohawks interviewed said they preferred to use their Mohawk names. The mystery over the helicopter shooting and the warrants that are keeping many Indians in virtual house arrest on their land are the latest conflicts in the undefined relationship between New York State and the Mohawks at Ganienkeh, a snow-swept land of trees and rocks that lies just outside the northeast tip of Adirondack Park.
Unlike the state's 10 Indian reservations, where both sides have reached at least a basic understanding on the extent of the state's jurisdiction, there is no such agreement here.
The Mohawks agreed to move here after ending the three-year siege at Moss Lake, an Adirondack camp once used by children of the Rockefellers and the Roosevelts. That agreement, which created an intermediary trust that allowed the Indians to use the land, took more than 200 negotiating sessions and was largely orchestrated by Mario M. Cuomo, who was Secretary of State in 1977.
 
Income From Bingo
The Indians at Ganienkeh, unlike those at reservations, accept no state or Federal aid. They make most of their money from a tax-free high-stakes bingo hall, the subject of a protracted lawsuit between the Mohawks and the state's Attorney General.
All the Mohawks want from the Government, they insist, is total non-interference in their affairs.
Tehakarorens, a bear-sized man who took part in the siege at Moss Lake, nodded in agreement. ''That is the white man's way,'' he said. ''Once there's a foot in the door, he'll push it all the way in. So we could only allow him on the land if it was on our terms.''
The Indians relented and allowed the authorities on their land after an elaborate observer system was set up. The investigators apparently found no evidence and there have been no arrests in the shooting of the low-flying helicopter, which made an emergency landing in sleet and snow on a cornfield along the Great Chazy River.
The doctor on board, 29-year-old James Van Kirk of Burlington, Vt., suffered wounds when a bullet passed through his neck, arm and wrist. He spent three days in a hospital and is now recuperating at home, Vermont authorities said.
 
'Enforceable Warrants'
Neither Mr. Martin, the New York State police, nor the F.B.I. said they knew who had fired at the helicopter.
As for the warrants, the Indians describe them as meaningless, but the F.B.I. does not see the situation that way.
''These are enforceable warrants and I would expect the parties named to surrender peacefully,'' said Wayne Alford, the special agent in charge of the F.B.I.'s Albany office. Asked what would happen if the Indians did not give themselves up, he said, ''We will approach that in due course.''
While a car with an F.B.I. insignia can be spotted cruising Devil's Den Road and other streets at the edge of the Mohawk encampment, the authorities have so far made no effort to drive onto the territory. Mr. Alford said he could not comment on whether the F.B.I. was even in the area and how the warrants might be enforced.
The Indians say they will fight back, with rifles if necessary, at anybody who enters their territory without permission.
 
Number of Families a Secret
Like the gunshots at the helicopter, much of what goes on at the encampment is shrouded in mystery. Even the number of people there - estimates range from a few dozen to as many as 30 or 40 families - is not divulged.
''We make our gardens, we tend animals, we have a fish pond, we have a longhouse,'' said Onhathaias, the guard at the locked gateway. ''That is all you need to know.''
When a visitor left by car, Onhathaias followed him in his own car and radioed word of the movements to Mr. Martin at the bingo hall, which is to reopen to the public tonight for the first time in almost three weeks.
In the tiny town of Altona, meanwhile, some semblance of normalcy has returned. Chris and Vicki Johnson, for instance, were finally able to move back into their trailer on Devil's Den Road, which they had to evacuate when it became caught between two sets of roadblocks, one belonging to the Indians and the other to the state police.
Many townspeople were shocked and angered in 1977 when the Indians moved onto what had been a barren stretch of state forest, but in recent years, relations, while less than cordial, had been civil. But few said they accepted the Indians' contention that the land was sovereign territory.
There also appears to be lingering resentment in economically depressed Altona over the tax-free bingo hall, which is often jammed to its capacity of 1,500 people and draws busloads from as far as Montreal and Syracuse.
''It's the most ridiculous thing, really,'' said Jack Gonyo, who owns the general store on Main Street. ''Since when did bingo ever become a part of their national culture? I never read anything about Geronimo playing bingo.''
Several Indians said their society had been unfairly discredited by the helicopter shooting.
''The issue was never if we would co-operate,'' said Tehakarorens, as he prepared the kitchen for tonight's expected crowd at the bingo hall. ''We did an investigation and can share the results. There was never any need for the white man to come onto our land.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mohawks consider their 700-acre encampment near Altona, N.Y., a reclaimed territory where New York State is a foreign government. Onhathaias, left, a Mohawk guard, stood in front of the gate that seals off the Ganienkeh Indian Territory (The New York Times/Steve Jacobs) (pg. 25); ''There was never any need for the white man to come onto our land,'' said Tehakarorens, who stood with his wife, Kahentiiosta, and son, Rorhare, outside the bingo hall at the Mohawks' Ganienkeh encampment (The New York Times/Steve Jacobs); map: New York state indicating Mohawk territory (The New York Times/April 14, 1990) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; ALTONA (NY)

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; MOHAWK INDIANS; SHOOTINGS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HELICOPTERS SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); HELICOPTERS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (72%); HOUSE ARREST (69%); REPOSSESSION (64%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



338 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST:

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
 Boeing will not have Japanese partners in financing its 767-X aircraft project. Three Japanese aerospace companies will be major suppliers on the project but will not have an equity interest, Boeing said. Developing the 300-seat twin-engine plane is expected to cost $4 billion. Some economists had argued that a partnership would help Japan's efforts in aerospace, one of the few industries where the United States is still a leader. [Page 1.] Two retailers have had radically different histories in the last two decades. Saks Fifth Avenue and Bonwit Teller were once about on a par; now, Saks is at the top of its field and Bonwit is holding ''going out of business'' sales. [1.] Eastern's unsecured creditors pressed ahead in court with their effort to oust the airline's management and have a trustee appointed to run Eastern while trying to sell it. [29.] A detailed proposal to loosen curbs on A.T.&T. was released by the Federal Communications Commission. The new rules for long-distance telephone services used by large customers are likely to make competition even more fierce, analysts say. [29.] A 24-hour local-news channel is planned for Orange County, Calif. The channel is a venture of the company that owns The Register, the county's leading newspaper. [33.] A suitor has acquired almost two-thirds of Norton's shares. BTR, a British industrial conglomerate, said it had acquired 64.1 percent of the shares under its $1.64 billion buyout. Norton is opposing the offer. [32.] The proposed merger of Lotus and Novell is being challenged in a suit filed by two Novell shareholders. [32.]
 
International
 Some American companies are slowing shipments to Moscow or avoiding new export commitments because of slow bill payments by the Soviets, people in industry and the Government said. But other American companies said they were inclined to believe Soviet explanations that the delays were largely bureaucratic and did not reflect an economic crisis. [29.] Investments from Taiwan continue to flood into China, even though the two nations remain bitter political rivals and most of the rest of the world has held back from China since Beijing cracked down on dissent last year. [29.]
 
 
 
The Economy
 Producer prices fell in March for the first time in seven months, helped by a record drop in vegetable costs and lower gasoline prices. The Producer Price Index declined by 0.2 percent last month after no change in February and a huge 1.8 percent rise in January, the largest in 15 years. [29.] Business inventories declined in February for the second time in three months, while sales surged, in another sign that the economy has avoided a recession, the Government said. [31.] Prices for used jets are beginning to fall after rising for several years. The older ''narrow body'' jets have become less desirable because of rising fuel costs and tightening noise regulations and because of swelling deliveries of new aircraft. [29.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Financial markets were closed for the Good Friday holiday. The dollar was little changed in virtually motionless trading as most world markets closed early for the Easter weekend. [33.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 A machine that disables eavesdropping devices has been developed by a physicist and a former Federal official. The machine, which gives off powerful bursts of microwave energy, can disable devices implanted in walls, its inventors say. Patents. [30.] The I.R.S.'s tough stance on home-office deductions has been rejected in two recent Tax Court decisions. Now, accountants report, many clients are asking whether they can file amended returns and claim deductions. Your Money. [30.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (67%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); NOVELL INC (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MERGERS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); RETAILERS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); LITIGATION (68%); EXPORT PRICES (67%); INVENTORIES (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (52%); 



339 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Down 0.2% in March

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Producer prices, helped by a record drop in vegetable costs and lower gasoline prices, fell in March for the first time in seven months, the Labor Department reported today.
The department's Producer Price Index for Finished Goods declined by two-tenths of 1 percent last month after no change in February and a huge 1.8 percent increase in January, the largest in 15 years. Vegetable prices were down by 25.5 percent.
An unusually severe cold snap in late December, followed by unseasonably mild temperatures in January and February, caused the topsy-turvy price pattern. Fuel oil and vegetable costs rocketed in January. Energy recovered a month later, but food prices did not start their decline until March. 
 
'Minus Sign' Seen for April
 ''Energy prices are still coming down and in fact we have a little more to go in vegetables,'' said Donald Ratajczak, at economist at Georgia State University. ''April should be a minus sign.''
Excluding the food and energy gyrations, producer price inflation has been remarkably stable for nearly two years. Economists look to these ''core'' prices - up by three-tenths of 1 percent in March and four-tenths in February - as a better barometer of underlying inflationary pressures.
They foresee little change, at least until next year. The Federal Reserve Board, they said, was keeping interest rates high enough to dampen both growth and price pressures but not high enough to derail the economy into a recession or substantially cut inflation.
''This year inflation is going to stay stuck,'' said James Annable, an economist at the First National Bank of Chicago. ''Without a recession, you can't bring down inflation quickly.''
Prices rose in the first three months of 1989 at an annual rate of 4.8 percent. Although the rate for the 1990 period hit 6.7 percent, economists expect the producer price inflation rate by the end of the year to come in close to last year's rate.
The March producer price inflation report was better than expected. Most economists had predicted a slight increase of one-tenth of 1 percent or two-tenths.
Food prices dropped by six-tenths of 1 percent in March, the sharpest decline since June.
Vegetables, particularly tomatoes, celery and cabbage, fell by 25.5 percent, the biggest drop since record-keeping began in 1967. However, that marked only a partial recovery from rises of 23.3 percent in February and 58 percent in January.
Prices also fell for beef and veal, dairy products and coffee. They rose for eggs, rice, pasta, pork, chickens, turkeys, fish, soft drinks and cooking oils.
 
Decrease in Energy Costs
 Energy prices over all dropped by 2.4 percent in March after a decline of 5 percent in February and an increase of 13.6 percent in January.
Gasoline was down 2.8 percent and natural gas declined by 2.5 percent. Fuel oil prices went up by 10.6 percent, but they had fallen 30.2 percent the month before.
Clothing prices for men and children rose, while the cost of women's clothing fell. Passenger car prices, in the face of weak sales, declined by three-tenths of 1 percent in March after no change in February and a seven-tenths fall in January.
The various changes put the March index for all finished goods, one stop short of retail, at 117, not seasonally adjusted. That means a hypothetical selection of goods that cost $100 in 1982 cost $117 last month, up from $112.10 a year earlier.
Price pressures in earlier stages of the production process also eased in March. Intermediate goods showed no change, while crude goods fell 1.4 percent. An example of the three processing stages would be bread for finished goods, flour for intermediate and wheat for crude.

GRAPHIC: Graph: index of finished goods prices, Oct. 1988-March 1989 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (53%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES PRODUCER PRICES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); BEEF (78%); POULTRY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); OILS & FATS (70%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MEATS (62%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%); 



340 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Late Soviet Payments Irk Sellers

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Frustrated by slow bill payments by the traditionally prompt Soviet Union, some American companies are slowing shipments to Moscow or avoiding new export commitments, various industry, Government and other sources said today.
''Some of our companies have gotten tired of it,'' one official in the corn industry said. ''They're just trying to send a message'' that they want to collect their debts.
Other exporters, like E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, which awaits payment of about $16 million for agricultural chemicals delivered last year, have stepped up collection efforts but so far have stopped short of curbing their business relationship with the Soviet Union. 
 
Situation Called Temporary
 ''The idea has been discussed, but we haven't made a serious threat,'' said Nancie Johnson, manager of international trade and investment for Du Pont. ''We think the situation is very temporary.''
The late-payment issue, which has attracted increasing attention in recent weeks, is highly sensitive, and several companies and trade groups were reluctant to discuss it for fear of annoying a substantial customer. They said they were inclined to accept Soviet explanations that the delays were largely bureaucratic, related to the country's political upheaval, and did not reflect an economic crisis.
Others, however, saw something perhaps more ominous for trade relations between the two countries.
 
Oil Problems Cited
 ''It's very serious,'' said Marshall Goldman, associate director of the Russian Research Center at Harvard University. He attributed the slowing of payments to a crisis in the availability of hard currency, 60 percent of which comes from oil revenues. The output of Soviet oil is said to have fallen recently, and there has also been a drop of more than 10 percent in the world price.
This shortfall, combined with reduced amounts of grain available at home, has put the Soviet Union in a severe economic bind that can be resolved only by obtaining large amounts of credit, Mr. Goldman added, and the inability to obtain such loans readily from suppliers or other sources forced a bill-payment slowdown.
''The Soviets don't like to get behind,'' Mr. Goldman said. ''That's what makes this situation so unusual.''
United States officials maintain, however, that the Soviet Union has made some progress in reducing its arrearages recently, even as some American companies have decided against bidding on new business, including contracts to supply subsidized grain to the Soviet Union under the Export Exhancement Program.
''In the past few weeks a few companies have abstained from bidding, while others have continued to bid,'' an Agriculture Department official said. ''Some companies have received back payments of what they are owed, while others are in the process of working it out.''
 
No Lasting Effect Seen
 She predicted that the slow-payment problem would have no lasting effect on the grain trade with the Soviet Union, noting that the United States recently sold an additional 300,000 tons. Last year, the United States sent 21.7 million tons of wheat and corn to the Soviet Union.
One industry source said that one way of limiting Soviet business was to load ships more slowly, but Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner said he was not aware of a change of any kind in the movement of American grain.
Several large grain-trading companies were not reachable today for comment because of the Good Friday holiday, but a spokesman for Omaha-based Conagra Inc., said that ''we do not have a problem with the Soviet Union and grain payments right now.''
In the absence of its president, a woman who answered the telephone at the North American Export Grain Association said the trade group could not comment on the slow-payment issue.
 
Problem Depicted as Resolved
 William Biedermann, vice president of Allendale Inc., a research company, said the Soviet Union had now largely resolved the problem. ''What really slowed down were new sales,'' he added. ''They almost came to a halt. Then about two weeks ago, they picked up again.'' Mr. Biedermann said the industry was already in a cautious mood when Moscow sought to switch from paying cash to buying on credit, ranging from six months to a year, but shipments had nonetheless not slowed substantially. ''They've been clicking right along,'' he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (85%); DD (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (85%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (85%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); CURRENCIES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



341 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Decline as Sales Jump

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Business inventories fell in February for the second time in three months, while sales surged, in another sign that the economy has avoided a recession, the Government said today.
Inventories on shelves and backlots shrank by four-tenths of 1 percent, the steepest drop since December 1986, to a seasonally adjusted $794.6 billion in February, the Commerce Department reported.
Sales, meanwhile, rose by 1.3 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $535.4 billion. It was the largest increase in seven months. All of the strength came in manufacturing, the sector of the economy that had been most affected by sluggishness resulting from the Federal Reserve Board's policy of keeping interest rates high. 
 
Ahead of Inventory Rise
 In January, business sales rose by four-tenths of 1 percent, enough to stay ahead of the three-tenths increase in inventories.
''The economy is picking up a little steam and we'll see a decent first half,'' said David Berson, an economist at the Federal National Mortgage Association.
He and other analysts view the combination of surging sales and falling inventories as a sign of strength. A sharp buildup in inventories can lead to a recession. Retailers and wholesalers with too many goods stop ordering more. In response, factories cut production and lay off workers.
The February activity sharply reduced the ratio of business inventories to sales to 1.48, down from 1.51 in January. That means it would take 1.48 months to exhaust inventories at the February sales pace.
''That suggests as much as anything that this economy has skirted a recession,'' said James Annable, an economist at the First National Bank of Chicago.
 
Drop Steepest at Retailers
 The inventory decline was steepest at retailers, where backlogs dropped by nine-tenths of 1 percent. Production cutbacks by auto companies have allowed dealers to reduce their stock of cars by 2.2 percent despite sluggish sales.
Wholesale inventories declined by two-tenths of 1 percent while factory backlogs edged down by a tenth.
Manufacturing sales surged by 3.3 percent in February, while retail sales fell by three-tenths of 1 percent and wholesale sales declined by a tenth.

GRAPHIC: Graph: total month-end businessinventories divided by total monthy business sales, Sept. 1988-Feb. 1990 (Source: Commerce Department.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (53%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RECESSION (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); 



342 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Despite Sanctions, Steel From Pretoria Is Entering the U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has allowed thousands of tons of South African iron and steel into the United States because of the way it has interpreted a 1986 sanctions law intended by its sponsors to ban such imports.
Commerce Department officials said this week that more than 900,000 tons of the material, worth at least $350 million, had entered the United States despite the anti-apartheid law.
The law says, ''Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no iron or steel produced in South Africa may be imported into the United States.''
 
Some Applications Excluded
But lawyers at the Treasury Department have defined ''steel'' to exclude fabricated steel products like girders, beams and plates used in the construction of bridges, according to department documents, including letters to members of Congress and steel importers. 
Bryce L. Harlow, an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, said that ''bridge sections, structures and parts of structures'' were not subject to the embargo even if they were made of South African iron and steel. Mr. Harlow did not explain the Treasury's rationale, except to say that it was based on ''established legal principles.''
This interpretation has upset some members of Congress like Representative John Bryant, Democrat of Texas, who said, ''There is no excuse for the Administration to allow even one ounce, much less billions of pounds, of such products to enter the United States.'' He said the law ''is just as plain as it can be.''
The State, Treasury and Commerce Departments confirm that they were aware of the policy, and each says the others were primarily responsible.
When asked at a Congressional hearing in February why South African steel was still coming into this country, Herman J. Cohen, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, said: ''Since this is a law-enforcement question, I'll have to defer to Treasury, which is responsible for enforcing the law.'' Treasury officials say their interpretation resulted from discussions with State Department officials.
Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said the Customs Service appeared to be accepting ''the most outrageous legal arguments of steel importers rather than trying to assess the clear intent of Congress in statutes which govern the import of steel products.''
The problem with steel imports illustrates what members of Congress say is a pattern of lax enforcement of the economic sanctions against South Africa. In a recent report, the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said, ''The U.S. Government does not have adequate tools to effectively enforce'' the sanctions.
The 1986 law put additional economic and political pressure on the Pretoria Government to end apartheid. Besides banning iron and steel imports, it also forbids the importing of items grown, produced or manufactured by any company that is owned, controlled or subsidized by South Africa.
The General Accounting Office said that the Customs Service did not know what products were made by such companies, so it had difficulty enforcing the ban, especially when South Africa sends goods to the United States through a third country. It added that Customs depends mainly on documents submitted by importers, certifying that they are in compliance.
 
Objectives of the Sanctions
Congress passed the law, over President Reagan's veto, in part to press for the lifting of emergency-decree rule in South Africa and for the release of Nelson Mandela. The measure prohibits new lending and investment, bans flights to and from South Africa and prohibits American imports of South African coal, textiles, uranium, farm products and gold coins, as well as iron and steel.
The definition of steel was devised in November 1986 by the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which works closely with the State Department in regulating trade with countries subject to sanctions. The rules are enforced by the Customs Service, which is also part of the Treasury Department.
The law established civil and criminal penalties for violating the embargo. But Federal law enforcement officials said it was inconceivable that the Government would prosecute anyone who imported South African steel after getting permission from the Treasury.
Treasury officials acknowledged that large quantities of iron alloy, used in the manufacture of steel, had been imported from South Africa, but they asserted that Congress did not explicitly prohibit such imports.
With the release of Mr. Mandela early this year, Congress is preparing for fresh debate on the future of sanctions. The Bush Administration has said it would consider lifting or modifying sanctions if the Pretoria Government frees all political prisoners and makes substantial progress toward dismantling apartheid. Congressional Democrats generally oppose the relaxation of sanctions.
South Africa accounts for a relatively small part of all the iron and steel imported into the United States, supplying far less than countries like Japan and South Korea. But it provides a substantial share of imports in certain categories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE WORSTEDS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON SPINNERS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FLOCK LTD (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOUTH AFRICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (54%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT JOHN DINGELL (58%); 



343 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY EXPECTED TO ABSORB EFFECTS OF MILITARY CUTS

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The United States economy can absorb large cuts in military spending without serious damage, economists say, although for a while, at least, tens of thousands of Americans will lose their jobs.
That will happen mostly because military spending will shrink faster than the civilian sector can expand to take up the slack. By most estimates, the process could temporarily idle up to 100,000 people a year in the 1990's, most of them discharged from the military service against their wishes or laid off at weapons plants, which would then go unused.
The proposed military cuts, some calling for reductions that would reach more than $100 billion a year by the late 1990's, would mark the fourth big cutback in military spending since World War II. But it would differ from the others in two significant ways. Never before on the eve of a major reduction has the military represented so small a portion of the national economy: less than 6 percent of the total wealth created in the nation last year. As a result, the cutback will scarcely show up in the statistics that measure economic strength. 
 
Cutbacks Could Spur Recession
Nevertheless, this is the nation's first attempt to shrink military spending at a time of sluggish economic growth -when idle weapons factories and their workers are not really needed for civilian production. The cutbacks might be hard to spot in the national statistics, but in a weak economy they could contribute to a recession in the early 1990's.
''Probably, the weakness in the economy today has something to do with the shrinkage in defense spending that has already taken place,'' said Robert Giordano, chief economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, the investment bankers. ''But to really take a sledgehammer to the economy, you would need cutbacks far bigger than anyone has yet proposed.''
Even if the cutbacks turn out to be footnotes in the record books, they still inflict damage in places like Lima, Ohio, and Warren, Mich., where the General Dynamics Corporation operates the only two factories still producing tanks in the United States.
 
Tank Production to End in 1993
The Army intends to end tank production in 1993, for the first time since World War II. If such plans go through, then General Dynamics insists that it will have to close its tank division, which employs 7,300 people and draws on a network of private suppliers that employ thousands more.
''What can you do with a tank factory?'' Michael W. Wynne, a vice president of General Dynamics, asked rhetorically. ''You can make tractors and heavy earth-moving equipment, but Caterpillar already has that market sewed up. If there is no defense work to support these factories, then we'll have no alternative but to give them up.''
Similar problems are hurting cities and towns in the Northeast, the mid-Atlantic and West Coast, the three regions where military spending is concentrated. And a cutback in military spending brings subtle changes that affect millions of lives.
 
Minority Workers Could Suffer
Among these changes, perhaps the most important is the impact on minority workers. The armed forces and the Defense Department's civilian payroll have been a source of jobs and training for blacks and others who have been underrepresented in the civilian sector. In addition, weapons makers and military research laboratories often pay more than civilian employers, so the military cutback might lower the national wage level. In Massachusetts, a center of arms research and production, military-sector wages averaged $33,000 a year in 1987, or 23 percent more than the average income in the private sector, according to a state government study.
More positively, a cutback in military spending would bring highly skilled people to the civilian sector. Thirty percent of the nation's engineers and scientists work on military projects, and some would be freed to develop civilian products, said Lloyd Dumas, an economist at the University of Texas.
''Take videocassette recorders,'' he said. ''We invented the basic technology, and with that head start, if we had applied enough engineering and technology talent to developing the recorders themselves, we would be ahead in the field.'' No American company makes them today.
Whatever the benefits or drawbacks, the biggest immediate issues, in the view of many economists and politicians, are retooling and retraining. Factories that make tanks or fighter planes or missiles will need to be overhauled to make civilian products. Workers at every level will need to function in a civilian business sector that marches to different values, among them working under pressure and cutting costs.
''The military environment is far more relaxed,'' said Leonard Siegel, director of the Pacific Study Center, a California research group.
To deal with the conversion problem, Congress is considering a bill that would force military contractors to draw up retooling plans and to retrain workers. Among the states, Washington recently became the first to pass a bill that appropriates money to help communities shift to civilian production.
 
Effect of the 'Peace Dividend'
Above all, the American economy in the 1990's will be shaped by the Federal Government's strategy for spending the ''peace dividend.'' The huge debate building over this issue offers two options.
One would use the savings from the military sector to reduce the budget deficit, in the belief that a lower deficit means less Government borrowing and thus lower interest rates on loans for everyone. Given these lower rates, the civilian sector would presumably borrow more to invest in new factories, stores and research operations that would replace the shrinking military sector.
An alternative is to spend much more on public works. Even strong proponents of budget cutting acknowledge that the nation's deteriorating highways and bridges, water and sewer systems, airports and mass transit make companies reluctant to build new factories, no matter how low interest rates might be. Without a good highway or railroad, for example, a new shoe factory in Wisconsin might not be a good investment because of difficulties in getting the shoes to market.
 
'Once-in-a-Lifetime Opportunity'
''The peace dividend is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to restore the nation's infrastructure to its level in the 1960's, without new taxes or new borrowing,'' said Robert Heilbroner, the economic historian.
The peace dividend, in fact, is already starting to appear. Despite all the attention on high-tech weaponry in the 1980's, the military budget has been quietly shrinking since 1985.
That development is evident when annual military appropriations are restated in 1990 dollars to discount the effects of inflation. Appropriations peaked at more than $330 billion in 1985 and then shrank by roughly 2 percent a year, reaching $300 billion in the fiscal year 1989, the Commerce Department reports. #2% Annual Shrinkage to Continue The Bush Administration would continue this 2 percent shrinkage through 1995, an annual cutback that amounts to an almost-invisible one-tenth of 1 percent of the gross national product, a measurement of the value of goods and services produced in the nation. Others would like to double or triple this cutback, to as much as $15 billion a year for 10 years.
Such sums are lost in an economy that generates $4.1 trillion in goods and services each year. The $15 billion becomes significant only if the economy remains sluggish and the G.N.P. grows at an annual rate of less than $100 billion - the situation since last fall. In so weak an economy, $15 billion could make the difference between a recession and continued expansion.
The huge cutback in military spending after World War II produced a recession, but the pent-up demand for goods and then the Korean War quickly made the economy boom. Brief recessions also developed as military spending contracted after the Korean War and as the Vietnam War came to an end.
 
Scenario for Layoffs
But quite apart from the recession issue, the proposed cutbacks do not seem likely to result in millions of layoffs. Some 3.2 million Americans work at private-sector jobs financed by military spending, said Robert Kutscher, an associate commissioner of the Labor Department. But fewer than 500,000 of these workers are making ammunition, missiles, warships and other weaponry in factories that cannot be easily converted to civilian use.
In the very unlikely event that the Defense Department halted almost all weapons programs, fewer than 50,000 of these weapons workers would be laid off each year, Mr. Kutscher said. Of the remaining private-sector workers, about 2.2 million are employed by subcontractors who also sell to the civilian sector. Most of these people are likely to keep their jobs, Mr. Kutscher added.
''A truck driver doesn't know whether his cargo is military or civilian,'' he said. ''And the same holds for machine shops that make parts, and hotels whose guests are connected with the military.''
Joblessness would also strike among the 2.1 million people in the armed services and the million civilian employees of the Defense Department. This year, 40,000 in both groups are to be mustered out or laid off, said Robert Rauner, director of the Defense Department's Office of Economic Adjustment. A stepped-up cutback over the next five years might shrink the armed forces by an additional 200,000 and the department's civilian workers by 100,000, he added.
The layoffs would come at a time when the demand for workers is likely to outstrip the number of people entering the work force. Whereas more than two million Americans came of job age annually in the 1980's, a slower-growing population will add only 1.5 million young people a year in the 1990's, the Labor Department projects.
Still, cuts in military spending work on the economy in strange ways. During earlier postwar cutbacks, for example, weapons exports rose as manufacturers scrambled for customers. They are scrambling again - one company, General Dynamics, is trying to sell tanks to Egypt - but with the easing of East-West tensions the overseas market is shrinking.
 
Mixed Outlook for Redevelopment
Back home, the Defense Department proposed in January to close 10 large military bases and numerous smaller ones around the country. Some would be sold for industrial parks, shopping centers and prime real estate, and the network of businesses serving the military would most likely end up serving new civilian customers.
But the transition might not work for other installations, among them the three-base cluster in the Oakland-Alameda area near San Francisco. Mr. Siegel of the Pacific Study Center noted that although the bases are on valuable waterfront property, suitable for hotels, conference centers and shopping malls, hazardous waste was stored at the bases, polluting the underground water. ''Cleaning this up might delay redevelopment for years,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: U.S. military spending as a percentage of the gross natinal product, 1940-1990 (Sources: Commerce Department, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston); chart: states where the most Pentagon money is spent and those states where it has the most impact, for 1989 (Source: Washington Analysis Corporation, based on Defense Department data.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (81%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; LAYOFFS (LABOR); MILITARY PERSONNEL; FORECASTS LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ARMIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); STATISTICS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



344 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Peru's New Frontrunner Vows Shake-Up on Coca and Rebels

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 14

 BODY:
Alberto Fujimori, the 51-year-old son of Japanese immigrants who displaced Mario Vargas Llosa last week as presidential frontrunner, is vowing to shake up Peru, attacking coca cultivation and guerrilla violence and pushing for the entry of this Andean land into the booming economy of the Pacific.
Mr. Fujimori, known here as ''the Japanese torpedo,'' finished a close second to Mr. Vargas Llosa, the novelist-turned-politician, against a broad slate of candidates in national elections last Sunday. An agronomist, Mr. Fujimori is widely expected to defeat Mr. Vargas Llosa in a two-man runoff, to be held before June 3.
 
Dismisses U.S. Efforts
With his political stock soaring, Mr. Fujimori has been blunt in his recent statements. He has already spoken with scorn of American efforts to end coca farming in Peru, dismissing Washington's program as ''completely inefficient'' in shifting his country from its role as the world's leading supplier of the raw material for cocaine. 
Instead, he proposed in an interview that the United States help build a 350-mile railroad to convert Peru's principal coca-growing valley into a breadbasket for his nation, which must import the food it needs to feed its people.
''The United States is just fooling itself,'' he said. ''You have to give the peasants an alternative. Otherwise, they will die of hunger or join the ranks of the guerrillas.'' It is the appetite for cocaine in the United States that has in large part fueled the switch from food crops to coca cultivation in the Upper Huallaga Valley of Peru.
 
Vargas Llosa Reconsiders
Mr. Fujimori's support for crop substitution is part of a larger shake-up that he promises if he wins the runoff.
On Monday, Mr. Vargas Llosa is to announce whether he will stay in the race. If the novelist bows out, his coalition, the Democratic Front, will field a replacement, a move that would virtually guarantee a Fujimori victory.
In recent weeks, public-opinion analysts watched transfixed as Mr. Fujimori rocketed from 3 percent in the polls on March 1 to 30 percent on April 8, the day of the election. Analysts say he did so well partly because Mr. Vargas Llosa was seen as too close to the traditional politicians representing wealthy business interests and merchants.
Politicians and pollsters now predict that Mr. Fujimori will win a runoff against Mr. Vargas Llosa by attracting left-wing voters who oppose the novelist's stricter free-market platform.
Mr. Fujimori apparently outpolled Mr. Vargas Llosa in the Andean highlands, where the guerrilla group Shining Path is strongest. And his conciliatory vision of the rebels does not square with some people's image of him as a conservative businessman in a white shirt.
''In the mountains, people were dying of hunger, children were not going to school, but everything looked fine from the presidential palace,'' Mr. Fujimori said, attributing the spread of Shining Path to the ''total myopia'' of Peru's two Presidents during the 1980's, Fernando Belaunde Terry and Alan Garcia.
''They are primarily responsible for the terrorism,'' the agronomist said with anger in his eyes. ''Don't forget that people have the right to rebel in the face of social injustice. You can't allow the suffocation of a people by social structures.''
 
Two Years in Wisconsin
In a three-hour interview on Thursday night at his house in the Monterico suburb of Lima, Mr. Fujimoro spoke of his grass-roots campaign and his vision for healing his country. Occasionally he broke into rusty English, remembered from two years in the early 1970's spent earning a master's degree in mathematics at the University of Wisconsin.
In contrast to the millions of dollars spent by Mr. Vargas Llosa's wealthy backers, Mr. Fujimori said he opened his campaign with money raised by selling his tractor and pickup truck. He balked at hiring a fast-talking political consultant who wanted to charge a fee of $5,000.
Instead, Mr. Fujimori's campaign slogan, ''Work, Honesty and Technology,'' was taken door to door by volunteers from his three pillars of support - evangelical Christians, business people and university students and professors.
On his ticket, one of his vice-presidential candidates, Maximo San Roman Caceres, owns a bakery-equipment factory and is president of Peru's Association of Small and Medium-Size Industries.
 
An Evangelical Running Mate
His other vice-presidential candidate is Carlos Garcia, president of Peru's National Evangelical Council. Mr. Garcia, a Baptist minister, spent seven years as director of World Vision, the Christian charity. On Friday, the Evangelical Council issued a statement declaring its ''institutional independence from all movements and political parties.''
Protestants, largely evangelicals, account for 4 percent of Peru's 20 million people, but about a third of the candidates for congress on Mr. Fujimori's slate, Change '90, are evangelicals.
''The evangelicals went door to door for us,'' said Victor Diaz Lau, a physics professor and campaign coordinator. ''They were good spokesmen for our movement.''
The son of Buddhists, Mr. Fujimori says he is ''100 percent'' Roman Catholic, the dominant religion in Peru. But concerned about his strong evangelical support, an emissary of the Catholic Church on Tuesday reportedly urged Mr. Vargas Llosa, an agnostic, to remain in the race.
 
What the Voters Like
In interviews and in polls, voters cited the qualities they like about Mr. Fujimori: his passion for farming, his political independence and his Japanese ethnic ancestry. Polls in this Pacific coastal nation often show that Japan scores higher than the United States in public esteem.
The small Japanese-Peruvian minority, numbering about 70,000, has taken pains to distance itself from Mr. Fujimori. Peru's Japanese apparently fear that a Fujimori failure as a candidate or as president could unleash anti-Japanese sentiment. Although Mr. Vargas Llosa spoke out sharply against racism on Monday, his embittered supporters reportedly harassed Japanese-Peruvians on several occasions last week.
But Mr. Fujimori is playing the Japanese card to his advantage. He has implied that his election would draw billions of dollars of Japanese investment. To gain publicity, he has been filmed breaking a brick with a karate blow. In the interview, he confessed that he had never learned karate and that the brick had been broken in advance.
To many Peruvians, the most pressing problem is not drug cultivation or foreign debt but the violent leftist insurgency of Shining Path.
 
Revival of Rural Economy
Saying counterinsurgency is ''not fought only with firearms,'' the candidate proposed an Andean development program to bring schools, roads, health clinics and impartial justice to rural Peruvians. To revive the rural economy, he proposed ending food subsidies and allowing markets to set food prices.
Ruling out peace talks with the guerrillas because of their ''criminal acts,'' Mr. Fujimori said, ''A government with a social policy could prevent people from falling into the clutches of Shining Path.''
To restore growth to Peru's shrinking economy, Mr. Fujimori recommended ending President Garcia's policy of confrontation with international bankers over Peru's $17 billion foreign debt. Instead, he called for negotiating a debt-relief plan similar to one negotiated recently by Mexico and Venezuela under guidelines set by the United States Treasury Secertary, Nicholas F. Brady.
To win more trade, aid and investment from Japan and other Pacific economic powers, he advocated increasing Peru's integration with the booming Pacific Basin.
 
Favors a 'Free Economy'
Mr. Fujimori said his ultimate goal is a ''free economy.'' To reduce Peru's 30 percent monthly inflation - now South America's highest - he would place a technician in charge of the Central Bank, would raise taxes and public utility rates to reduce the budget deficit and would create a new currency, probably backed by silver.
On the drug issue, Mr. Fujimori said that raids on laboratories and on air strips would continue in Peru.
But noting that coca leaf prices have dropped almost below the threshhold of profitability, he said the United States should help build the infrastructure -roads and the railroad - necessary to move food crops from the Upper Huallaga Valley to markets in the major coastal cities.
''We have to be realistic - these people are not going to allow their children to die,'' he said of the estimated 200,000 families in the Huallaga Valley who depend on coca leaf cultivation for their livelihoods.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alberto Fujimori (Associated Press) (pg. 1); Alberto Fujimori, Peru's presidential front-runner, is using his Japanese heritage to his advantage, implying that his election would draw billions of dollars of Japanese investment. A recent publicity film showed him using karate to break a brick, but he later admitted that he did not know karate and that the brick had been broken in advance. (Associated Press) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ANDES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU; UPPER HUALLAGA VALLEY (PERU)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOOD; AGRICULTURE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COCAINE (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TRENDS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FARM LABOR (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); AGRONOMY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); MOUNTAINS (66%); CIVIL WAR (61%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO ALBERTO FUJIMORI (94%); 



345 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Gardening as a Career: the Lure of a Dirty Job

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
Weeding and raking and digging and planting have not typically led to high-status careers. But these days, being a gardener is starting to sound better and better.
''It's fashionable,'' said Rosemary Kern, director of education at the New York Botanical Garden. ''It is a way of making a statement, like nouvelle cuisine.''
It is also a way of leaving the fast track for something that may have offered solace as a hobby, and so horticulture schools throughout the country are seeing a steady increase in adults who are thinking of leaving their careers to dig in the dirt for a living. 
Indeed, some say gardeners may become to the 1990's what chefs were to the 1980's, when a surging interest in fine foods elevated the status of cooking as a career. A similar change seems to be taking place in the garden.
 
Plants as Psychotherapy
Of course, it is not all spade work. Jobs range from greenhouse chores to designing elaborate plantings or overseeing vast estates. Training in horticulture can also lead to work in floral design, conservation, education and even psychotherapy, using plants to soothe patients.
And it is not embarrassing these days to leave Wall Street for a career in gardening.
Take Gregory McKinney, a 39-year-old foreign exchange trader who lives in New Jersey with his wife and two young children. He risks millions of dollars in split-second decisions. He makes so much money, he says, that he pays cash for his cars. But the pressure has been wrenching. ''I hear my pulse in my ears,'' he said.
 
Night Classes in Gardening
Mr. McKinney is taking night classes at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, and plans to earn enough credits for a certificate in landscape design later this year. Eventually, he hopes to buy a small landscaping company. He is sure he will be happier doing something he loves. ''Truthfully,'' he said, ''I don't have a lot of interest in Japanese yen.''
In Cambridge, Mass., applications for the landscape design program through the Radcliffe Seminars, a course of part-time study run by Radcliffe College, have been growing so steadily that ''we've run out of space,'' said John Furlong, the coordinator of the program. ''We are making it more selective,'' he added.
At the University of Pennsylvania, interest in landscape architecture -which is to gardening what city planning is to brick laying - is also rising. The class this year has 45 students, up from the usual 30 or so. Applications for the class that will start this fall are twice as high as usual.
Once trained, gardeners will find plenty of demand for their services as Americans' interest in plants and gardening continues to increase.
 
Sales Up 16% a Year
Sales of bedding plants, which include flowering annuals like geraniums and petunias, increased almost 16 percent a year from 1976 to 1988, according to Alvi Voigt, a professor of agricultural economics at Pennsylvania State University in State College, Pa. At garden centers, sales increased from $2.9 billion to $5.4 billion from 1982 to 1987, twice as fast as overall retail growth.
''There is a tremendous shortage of qualified people at all levels of the industry,'' said Terry Humfeld, the executive director of the Professional Plant Growers Association in Lansing, Mich.
No degree is required to be a gardener; like a chef, an aspiring gardener can start at the minimum wage and learn on the job. Formal training can range from a year or so of study to two- and three-year programs that include academic courses in botany and plant physiology.
Henry J. Euler, who runs the 21-month horticulture program at the New York Botanical Garden, said he has seven jobs for every graduate. ''The killer is what you get paid,'' he said. ''Starting salaries are between $15,000 and $22,000.''
 
Jobs That Pay $5 an Hour
Susan Lathrop, executive director of the American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta in Wayne, Pa., said people who are switching careers for jobs in gardening often apply for internships that pay only $5 or $6 an hour.
The lack of financial prospects drove away many people who became gardeners in the 1970's, during the first flush of the environmental movement. But salaries are beginning to increase because of the labor shortage, Mr. Humfeld said.
Throughout the country, refugees from high-stress medical jobs are showing an interest in horticulture. At Merritt College in Oakland, Calif., nurses make up about 10 percent of the horticulture classes.
In New York City, Keith Lloyd, a nurse, dug and planted in the community garden on Third Avenue near 93d Street in Manhattan, growing flowers and vegetables. Gradually, the gardening became more important. He studied full time at the Botanical Garden, where he is now the orchid curator, overseeing 5,000 plants.
 
Plants Are Like Patients
Both horticulture and nursing, he said, require good hygiene and careful observation. ''In the hospital, well-being depends on it. And it is the same in orchid culture.''
But the business and financial community seems to be the New York's metropolitan area's largest source of prospective gardeners, instructors say.
''There is this really strong desire to reach out to creative fields,'' said Maryanne Connelly, a landscape architect who teaches at the Botanical Garden.
One who switched to gardening 20 years ago after a successful career on Wall Street is Jim Cross, who grows premium quality plants at Environmentals, his wholesale nursery in Cutchogue, L.I.
Mr. Cross was a partner in the investment firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Although he found the work exciting, he said, he did not feel inherently suited to it. ''I had to crank myself up to work at it,'' he added. Then, in his early 40's, he changed careers. ''I learned by doing it,'' he said, ''and by making mistakes.''
 
From Dresses to Dungarees
Signe Hanson is making the switch today. She used to make more than $50,000 a year administering social service programs for the State of New Jersey. ''I woke up in the morning yawning,'' she said. ''I would go to the mall and drop money on a dress because I was depressed.''
Ms. Hanson, who has a master's degree in public administration, does not have the time or the money to shop these days. She is living on her savings and studying horticulture at Delaware Valley College in Doylestown, Pa., where she puts on dungarees and boots to dig in the dirt.
Her old life is gone; the business suits hang in the closet. ''I may as well give them to the Smithsonian,'' she said. Ms. Hanson says she can live happily on less. ''I own all the toys I can possibly want,'' she said.
Last August, Elizabeth Spar, who lives in the New York suburb of Hastings-on-Hudson, gave up a long-held partnership in a market research company to take a job in a nursery in Scarsdale, where she found the work physically tiring but satisfying.
''I didn't have to go to meetings with people that drove me up the wall,'' she said. ''I didn't have the tension.'' Last August she started studying full time at the Botanical Garden in New York.
 
A New, Plain Wedding Ring
At the garden's greenhouse she can wear jeans and let the dirt remain under her fingernails. Even her jeweled wedding ring had to be put aside, for a new, plain one. ''I was there yesterday, watering the plants, and I'm hearing them all drinking,'' she said. ''It's a great feeling.'' John Creedon, a Colgate-educated son of an insurance executive, tried his father's business but left it for horticulture, getting a master's degree from Cornell. Now he owns Connecticut Cut Flower in Bantam, a borough in the western Connecticut town of Litchfield, and sells wholesale and retail flowers and plants.
''It's not unusual for people who have a fairly high level of education to go into this business,'' he said. ''If you don't have it, it's hard to pull all the pieces together.''
On the other hand, potting ivy probably does not require Ivy League credentials.
Chuck Rekemeier left his job as a crane operator at the Exxon refinery in Linden, N.J., that had employed three generations of his family. ''I was becoming bored,'' said Mr. Rekemeier, who studies at Delaware Valley College and plans to be a retail florist. ''There is nothing to equal the colors or fragrance of flowers.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Cross, who left his job at an investment firm to become a horticulturist, at his nursery on Long Island (The New York Times/Michael Shavel) (pg. 1); Keith Lloyd, who gave up nursing for horticulture, at work at the New York Botanical Garden, where he is now the orchid curator (The New York Times/William E. Sauro); Signe Hanson, who left her job administering social service programs for the State of New Jersey to study horticulture, pruning a tree at Delaware Valley College in Doylestown, Pa. (The New York Times/Robert J. Salgado) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET PSYCHIATRY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); GARDENING (90%); HORTICULTURE (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (89%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL; HALL, TRISH



346 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Intense College Recruiting Drives Lift Black Enrollment to a Record

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
Black enrollment in colleges and universities reached record highs in the late 1980's largely because the schools developed extensive recruiting programs to tutor, counsel and provide financial aid to prospective students, educators and sociologists say.
Seeking to explain a surge in enrollment figures released last month by the Federal Department of Education, the experts said in interviews that efforts to stress to black young people the importance of higher education had found an increasingly receptive audience, mostly among young women.
The Department of Education figures showed that black enrollment had ended a long downward trend. Young women accounted for much of the increase, and the sociologists and educators said that fact supported the view that young black men generally seemed to find it difficult to believe college was a viable option for them.
 
The Route Out of Poverty
But now colleges and universities are using more and more tutoring and guidance counseling programs to raise black interest. They have also expanded their student financial assistance programs to make up for a shrinkage in Federal budgets of the 1980's. The result has been a reversal of a troubling trend, educators say. 
''We are beginning to see a collection of institutions, both black and white, that are helping black students understand again that the single most important route out of poverty is education,'' said Benjamin F. Payton, president of Tuskegee University in Alabama. ''To have a high school diploma alone is not considered to be an adequate education in a world increasingly driven by science and technology.''
From 1986 to 1988, the Federal Department of Education says, non-Hispanic black college enrollment rose to 1.13 million students from 1.08 million. The previous high was 1.10 million students in 1980.
Total enrollment in American colleges was 12 million in 1980 and 13 million in 1988. Sexes' Enrollments: a Gulf? Among young black women, enrollment rose to 687,000 from 646,000 from 1986 to 1988, but in the same period, black male enrollment rose only to 443,000 from 436,000, raising concern that an economic gulf was developing between black men and women.
Dr. Troy Duster, a sociologist at the University of California at Berkeley, said poor black men were more likely than poor black women to be influenced by ''macho'' attitudes, and that those attitudes made it likely that they would be driven into crime.
''Girls don't tend to get involved as much in these kinds of male bonding activities: gang life, sports,'' said Dr. Duster, the director of the Institute for the Study of Social Change at Berkeley. But he added that black culture itself had always affirmed the importance of education; black women simply had fewer counterforces to keep them from responding. Why Not the Ivy League? Last month, the National Institute of Independent Colleges and Universities, whose headquarters are in Washington, said in a report based on the Education Department's findings that the greatest increase in black enrollment had come at private institutions. In the period examined, black enrollment increased by 7.1 percent in private institutions as against 0.2 percent in public colleges and universities.
There is concern on the part of educators and parents, however, that fewer black students are attending Ivy League and similarly prestigious institutions.
''This year we saw a decrease in black applicants,'' said Jennifer Carey, the senior admissions and financial aid officer at Harvard University. ''We've been listening to other Ivy League schools and the message is fairly consistent: there is a noticeable decline.''
Most black college students are in public institutions of higher education, whose costs and requirements are comparatively modest. There were 881,000 black students in publicly supported colleges and universities in 1988, as against 248,000 in private institutions, the Education Department says.
 
A Rise in College Fund Schools
Officials of the United Negro College Fund concurred in the Federal findings, but spokesmen for the fund said their research had not found a decrease in black male enrollment among the 41 black colleges and universities that are affiliated with the fund.
Alan Kruchner, a researcher for the fund, said black enrollment at the member schools had risen 10 percent from 1986 to 1988; 5 percent among men, 5 percent among women. He said he believed that black institutions were more successful in gaining black male enrollment because of special programs to attract them.
Osward P. Bronson Sr., president of Bethune-Cookman College in Daytona Beach, Fla., follows his school's football team around his state and sets up recruiting receptions to interest promising high school students. But the emphasis is academics, he said in an interview.
''We invite high achievers, merit scholars, and entertain them and their parents,'' he said. ''We give them tickets to the game. I will address the group and our director of admissions will speak.''
Bethune-Cookman alumni, many of whom are teachers, also help to promote the college to promising students, Dr. Bronson said.
 
The Issue of Financial Help
Shortly after the new programs were begun in the late 1980's, Bethune-Cookman's student body grew by 16 percent to 2,286 students. But at the same time, the institution is ''biting the bullet,'' Dr. Bronson said, by dipping into its operating budget to help needy students. More than 90 percent of the students need some kind of financial aid, he said.
''When Washington moved toward reduction in financial aid while at the same time tuition and room and board costs were going up, it made it financially impossible for a poor kid to go to school,'' Dr. Bronson said.
From 1980 to 1986, black enrollment in higher education fell nationally by 2.2 percent, a loss of 25,000 students, the Education Department's figures show.
''Both public and private institutions have been working very hard to increase the numbers of minority students in their schools,'' said Allan Ostar, president of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. ''Given the opportunity and proper motivation, minorities will do as well as or better than anyone else.''
 
Seeking the Key, Motivation
Many programs managed by colleges are now seeking better ways to motivate blacks to turn to college. These programs, from after-school engineering clubs to overnight visits to campus dormitories, give black students a chance to experience the flavor of college life and its challenges.
Mercy College in Detroit has ''adopted'' a predominantly black high school whose freshmen are evaluated. Those with a high potential are sent to the college campus, where they meet with professors and Mercy students.
''The pool of minority high school students who are graduating with the courses needed for college and the level of preparation for success in selective colleges has not been growing in recent years,'' said Phillip M. Phibbs, president of the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Wash. ''We are trying to enlarge that pool.''
Puget Sound, where 2 percent of the 3,000 students are black, has had the help of Tacoma's chapter of the National Urban League and of the Tacoma public school system in seeking to motivate minorities toward college.
 
Adopting a High School
Last year the University of Puget Sound adopted a local school's program in which 1,000 public school students were provided with tutoring and counseling. This summer two dozen ninth- and tenth-grade students are to attend a two-week program in mathematics, writing and sciences on the university campus.
Dr. Phibbs said he was also trying to find philanthropists who would help those who cannot afford college. So far, the university has received one $60,000 four-year scholarship for a minority student.
On the University of California campuses, where 4.6 percent of the 160,000 students are black, a study group was created to determine why so few blacks had qualified for the state university system. The university branches accept only students in the top 12.5 percent of their class.
 
'Education Is the Only Way'
Ingrid Labat, 21 years old, had no difficulty measuring up to Stanford University's tough standards. But after a year and a half there, Ms. Labat said, she wanted a smaller, more supportive environment.
Now a junior at Xavier University, a predominantly black college in New Orleans, her hometown, Ms. Labat said she was happy in the school's biology and pre-med program.
''My parents have been very supportive, so it never crossed my mind to do anything else but go to college,'' Ms. Labat said. ''It's hard to survive without an education, especially if you are a minority.
''Education is the only way blacks are going to succeed. My parents always said, 'If you don't go to college, you won't be able to control your own destiny.' ''

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Balck enrollment at U.S. colleges, private and public, and for men and women, 1978-1988 (Source: Department of Education) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (50%); DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (88%); IVY LEAGUE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS (IN US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; TUTORS AND TUTORING; PRIVATE SCHOOLS; ENROLLMENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TRENDS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); WOMEN (89%); MEN (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (79%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL



347 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-11
 
Will China's rulers eventually fall?An eerie quiet pervades China, a year after the student upheaval. But the calm masks potentially explosive currents. Page 1

 
Who represents Cambodia? The question was complicated by a warning from the European Community that it will oppose giving Cambodia's U.N. seat to Prince Norodom Sihanouk's government-in-exile, because it includes the Khmer Rouge. 3

 
Peru's Presidential frontrunner, Alberto Fujimori, is vowing to shake up Peru, attacking coca cultivation and guerrilla violence and pushing for the entry of this Andean land into the booming economy of the Pacific. 1

 
More Nicaraguans in U.S. going back home 11

 
Iron and steel from South Africa have been allowed to enter the United States by the Bush Administration despite a 1986 sanctions law intended by its sponsors to ban such imports. 1

 
Pressure from the Soviet military for an army crackdown in Lithuania is increasing, according to a Communist Party official, who said that the military has worked out plans much like those under which the Army occupied Prague in 1968. 10

 
Gorbachev met with advisers to craft plan for ailing economy 10

 
American intelligence operations in Eastern Europe may change radically as there are plans to close down expensive electronic listening posts there and to conduct a major re-evaluation of operations. 10

 
Reporter's notebook: Bush seeds the clouds of diplomacy 9

 
New waves of Lebanese refugees from the war-torn Christian section have been leaving the country or seeking refuge in safer areas within Lebanon. 3

 
NATIONAL/12-20

 
The effect of military spending cuts on the economy will not be severe, economists say, although in the short run tens of thousands of Americans will lose their jobs. 1

 
Troubles with the 1990 census may have in part been brought about by changes that were made to correct the problems of the 1980 census, according to Census Bureau officials. 12

 
H.U.D. inquiry finds no wrongdoing in three no-bid contracts 12

 
A surge in black enrollment in colleges and universities in the late 1980's occurred because of a vast effort in tutoring, counseling and providing financial aid to prospective students, experts say. 1

 
The lives of the Cuban refugees known as Marielitos, who made a frantic exodus from the port of Mariel in 1980, illustrate the vagaries of immigration law, as well as the glory of immigrant success. 1

 
The Secretary of Education, Lauro Cavazos, was criticized by Hispanic educators and community leaders for saying that Hispanic parents bear much of the blame for the high dropout rate among their children. 13

 
A Klansman is challenging a law in Georgia that bans the wearing of masks and hoods in public. The challenge is based on the right to free speech. 12
 
The fast track for the green track? Increasing numbers of people are establishing careers in gardening, with jobs ranging from greenhouse chores to overseeing vast estates. 1

 
A high incidence of Down syndrome in a small industrial city in Texas has prompted an investigation of pollution along with the nation's first legal test of an emerging theory that toxic chemicals could cause the birth defect. 14

 
As North Carolina Senate race nears, the scene is quiet 12

 
Ex-Senator's comeback upsets Florida Democrats 19

 
County and city at odds in Mapplethorpe case in Cincinnati 16

 
$5.3 million libel award to a singer is appealed 17

 
REGIONAL/22-28

 
A 17-year-old Brooklyn youth was charged with being one of four men who tried to rob a subway rider Thursday night just before their victim pulled a handgun from his waistband and shot one of the assailants to death. 22

 
A lawyer for the black teen-ager who was fatally shot by a white police officer in Teaneck, N.J., charged that the prosecutor has a conflict of interest that can be resolved only by the appointment of a special prosecutor. 22

 
Canadians shop at Niagara Falls in huge numbers on weekends, seeking American brand-name goods at bargain prices compared with what they pay in Toronto and its suburbs. 23

 
Youths' lessons of war: it knows no boundaries 22

 
Dinkins urges a survey of landlord costs he opposed in 1987 28

 
Bass fishing plan gets a preliminary nod 24

 
Reports vary on New York's maple syrup crop 23

 
Two suspects in a trooper's slaying were free on bail 24

 
Obituaries 26

Carvel Collins, a professor and writer 26

 
Arts/Reviews 42-43, 45

Spoleto U.S.A. opening set 42

Music: Annie Fischer, pianist 42

Peter Murphy's rock 42

''Don Giovanni'' role exchange 43

Tribute to Chinese composer 43

Industrial rock variations 43

Meridian group in brass works 43

''Fledermaus'' cast changes 45

Dance: Philadanco 2d program 43

Nina Martin's ghoulish wit 43

Fort Worth ''Cinderella'' 43

Melange by Novantiqua 43

 
Campus Life 31-33

 
Fashion 38-39

 
Life Style 34

 
Pastimes 44, 47

 
Weddings 40-42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CAMBODIA (94%); PERU (93%); EUROPE (93%); LEBANON (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); LITHUANIA (79%); GEORGIA (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); REFUGEES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CHILDREN (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); CENSUS (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); LAYOFFS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



348 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Lebanon War Spurs New Emigration

BYLINE: By IHSAN A. HIJAZI, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, April 14

 BODY:
The outbreak of large-scale fighting between rival Lebanese Christian factions 12 weeks ago has prompted major new migrations of refugees, both out of the country and inside it.
A report issued by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the beginning of this month said 100,000 Lebanese, primarily Christians, have left the country since the latest fighting began. Two hundred thousand other Christians sought refuge in safer areas in Lebanon, according to security officials.
As many as 800,000 Lebanese have left the country since the civil war began on April 13, 1975. This is nearly one-fourth of the entire population. 
The Mediterranean island of Cyprus, 150 miles away, has become a halfway house for Lebanese emigrants who have despaired of their country's ever becoming peaceful again. They flock to foreign consulates there to obtain entry visas. Lebanon's national carrier, Middle East Airlines, has three flights a week to Larnaca, and they are booked solid for many weeks ahead.
''Cyprus is our Ellis Island,'' said Malik Abu Jedid, a 29-year-old bank clerk who said he applied for a visa to Canada to join an older brother. #80,000 Live in France Four countries are most favored for well-off Lebanese emigrants: France, the United States, Canada and Australia. Nearly 80,000 now reside in France, two-thirds of whom are in Paris, according to statistics.
About 100 Lebanese apply daily for visas at the United States and Canadian consulates in the Cypriot capital, Nicosia. Canada is reported to process 600 a month, but only 10 percent of applicants succeed in getting visitor or immigration visas to the United States.
Hundreds apply each month for visas at the Australian Embassy in Damascus, the Syrian capital.
Many have joined relatives in South America, mainly in Brazil and Venezuela, while others have gone to African countries such as Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Zaire and South Africa, according to officials.
Thousands, desperate to get out, tried to pass themselves off as political refugees in Scandinavian countries, especially Sweden. But the Stockholm Government shut the door last month, and sent back 150 Lebanese who it said had arrived on counterfeit visas.
Many of these Lebanese tried to enter Sweden via Poland. Polish visas were easy to come by, until late last month when the Polish Embassy in West Beirut sent most of its staff home after an attempt to kill one of them. A clandestine group said it had carried out the attack to protest a Polish pledge of help to Soviet Jews emigrating to Israel.
 
Apartment Destroyed by Shells
''We have nothing left to keep us here,'' said Mrs. Edmund Jabbour, the mother of two girls and a boy between 5 and 12. She and her husband, owner of a men's boutique, were packing to leave for Houston after receiving a United States immigration visa. Mrs. Jabbour said their apartment in Christian East Beirut was smashed by artillery shells in February. Her husband's shop received a direct hit during the artillery exchanges last fall between the Lebanese and Syrian armies.
The fighting between Christians pits supporters of Gen. Michel Aoun, the leader of the Lebanese Army, against the Lebanese Forces militia, led by Samir Geagea. General Aoun opposes the Government of President Elias Hrawi, whom he accuses of giving in to the Muslims and accepting the Syrian military presence in Lebanon, and Mr. Geagea supports the Government.
Khalil Mansour, a 32-year-old engineer, said he was taking his wife and two sons, 7 and 9, to Australia. ''At least there, I can be sure they will go to school,'' he said.
Schools and universities have been closed in the Christian enclave for nearly a year now.
 
No Water or Electricity
Harig Keomedjian, a jeweler of Armenian extraction, said: ''We want to have normal life. Where I am going at least we will have water and electricity.'' He is immigrating to Montreal.
Since the fighting began, Beirut and most areas in Lebanon have been without power or water supply. Power cables and water mains have been destroyed by artillery shells.
Since no restrictions are imposed on money leaving the country, capital flight has been as big as the human exodus, contributing to the economic recession Lebanon has been suffering because of continuing violence.
The Government draft budget for this year shows a 65 percent deficit.
According to Abdel Chakour al-Shaalan, who heads the Middle East section at the International Monetary Fund, Lebanese holdings in banks abroad total nearly $20 billion.
Emigration has been part of Lebanese life for 130 years. Government statistics show that as many as 13 million people of Lebanese origin now live in 25 countries, including 2 million in the United States and 5 million in Brazil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: LEBANON (96%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CYPRUS (93%); POLAND (92%); SWEDEN (91%); FRANCE (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SYRIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SENEGAL (79%); LIBERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLE EAST AIRLINES AIR LIBAN SAL (56%); MIDDLE EAST AIRLINES AIR LIBAN SAL (56%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (84%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LEBANON; FRANCE; AUSTRALIA; CANADA

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); AIRLINES (73%); STATISTICS (64%); 

PERSON: HIJAZI, IHSAN A



349 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Military's Voice Being Heard on Lithuania, a Soviet Aide Says

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 14

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev is under increasing pressure from the Soviet military for an army crackdown in Lithuania, an official of the Communist Party's Central Committee says.
The official says the military has worked out plans much like those under which the Soviet Army occupied Prague in 1968. They include a strategy of seizing the Lithuanian Parliament building, replacing the leadership that has declared independence, imposing martial law and installing other leaders who would rescind the republic's March 11 proclamation.
Word of the military pressure comes as Col. Gen. Vladimir Denisov, Deputy Chief of the Soviet General Staff, warned on Friday in the Soviet newspaper Trud that ''the carrying out of the policy of the present Lithuanian leaders for secession is pregnant with danger for the security not only of the Baltic republics and the U.S.S.R., but for all of Europe.'' 
 
'Painful Consequences'
Secession by the Lithuanians would create a breach in Soviet defenses and lines of communication to the West, the general said. ''If they don't listen to the voice of reason,'' he wrote, ''events could have painful consequences for everybody.''
The tough line is probably aimed at Western ears. But it also coincides with assessments by American intelligence officials that the rapid deterioration in the Soviet security position in Eastern Europe and the poor domestic economy have strengthened the hand of the Soviet military establishment and narrowed support for Mr. Gorbachev's policies.
Pressure from the military may also explain the threat on Friday, signed by Mr. Gorbachev and Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, to stop supplying Lithuania with essential raw materials if it does not repeal some of the measures adopted since March 11.
This move apparently represented a change in Mr. Gorbachev's position since last Tuesday. Douglas Hurd, the British Foreign Secretary, who was visiting at the time, said the Soviet President had told him, ''A decision had been taken not to interrupt the flow of necessary materials to Lithuania.''
 
Threat to Gorbachev's Plans
Soviet officials who support Mr. Gorbachev's course of economic and political change now tell their Western friends that the Soviet leader's plans for reviving the economy could be threatened by the Lithuanian crisis and by the continuing collapse of Soviet strategic positions in Eastern Europe.
They are aware that harsh measures against Lithuania now would end support and encouragement for Mr. Gorbachev's policies in the West. But as Mr. Gorbachev himself complained to a delegation of American senators here last week, all the West has done so far is lecture him on avoiding force.
One Communist Party official said that if President Bush really wanted to help, he should call up the Lithuanian President, Vytautas Landsbergis, and urge him to make a compromise, like retracting or suspending the declaration of independence.
A Western diplomat said he would be surprised if Mr. Gorbachev himself or one of his political allies like Aleksandr N. Yakovlev or Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze had not already made such a suggestion to Mr. Bush in advance of the Soviet-American summit talks in Washington, which begin late next month.
But it would appear to have little chance of success. Mr. Bush is under pressure from Congress to recognize Lithuanian independence formally. The White House has explained that such a move is unnecessary because the United States, like Britain, has never formally recognized the Soviet annexation of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia in 1940.
Some Soviet officials wonder what the United States or anybody else in the West would actually be able to do for the Lithuanians if there were a military crackdown, besides offering them moral support.
 
Soviet Complaints
They also complain that the United States has not shown its appreciation for Mr. Gorbachev's rapid and continuing shifts on German unification.
A few weeks ago, the Soviet leader was insisting that a united Germany be neutral and could not belong to NATO. Last week, Mr. Shevardnadze suggested that one way to resolve the issue was for Germany to belong to both NATO and the Warsaw Pact.
''We didn't expect you to accept this idea whole,'' a Central Committee figure said after the White House rejected the idea on Wednesday, ''But why don't you make some constructive counterproposal instead of rejecting ours?''
Valentin M. Falin, Mr. Gorbachev's chief adviser on German affairs, said in an interview on Monday that the dual-alliance idea was intended to provide a transition to a new all-European security structure to replace both NATO and the Warsaw Pact in five to seven years.
''Why not agree in the talks on German unification that this is the goal?'' another adviser suggested. ''That would be the kind of signal we need.''
 
Western Diplomats' Views
But some Western diplomats here think that the right posture to take on Lithuania and Germany is simply to keep waiting to see how many more positions Mr. Gorbachev is forced to cede before holding out a safety net for him. Others believe that the longer the Lithuanian impasse continues, the more Mr. Gorbachev will be boxed in by his critics in the Communist Party and the military.
If Mr. Gorbachev is indeed coming under pressure from the Soviet military to do something on Lithuania, the situation will be aggravated by the fact that both Lithuania and Estonia are urging young men to refuse to answer their draft calls next month.
Communist Party officials are emphasizing the importance of support for Mr. Gorbachev from the military, rather than from the Communist Party apparatus, because they say party support does not mean as much as it once did. Mr. Gorbachev has shifted his power base to the newly institutionalized and strengthened presidency.
Earlier in the week, the Central Committee apparatus, with the open support of Yegor K. Ligachev, the leading conservative in the Communist Party Politburo, called for driving out radicals who want to move faster toward a free-market economy. But the call was dismissed as mainly irrelevant by one of Mr. Gorbachev's aides.
''If that's the kind of party they want, most people will side with the people they throw out,'' an aide said of the conservatives.
But he was less sanguine about the economy. Mr. Gorbachev's great political gift, he said, was for compromise -which is why he keeps extricating himself from political crises - but not for decisive, radical action.
''He waited too long to start the economic reform; that's clear now,'' this man said. ''Now, most of the rest of the leadership is just sitting around indifferently waiting for it to fail. When you get right down to it, Gorbachev just has Yakovlev and Shevardnadze actively on his side.''

GRAPHIC: Map: Baltic states of the Soviet Union (The New York Times/April 15, 1990)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY (55%); AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



350 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: More Nicaraguans in U.S. Going Back Home

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 14

 BODY:
Confident that the inauguration on April 25 of President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro will usher in an era of peace for Nicaragua, a growing number of Nicaraguan exiles are restarting their lives and businesses there.
About 150 Nicaraguan exiles in a caravan of 30 cars are to leave for home next week on a 5,000-mile drive through Florida, Louisiana, Texas, Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras.
Exiles on a similar convoy that left two weeks ago have already reached their destination, relatives say. They said that in the last several weeks about 2,000 Nicaraguans have returned to their homeland. 
After the Sandinistas came to power in 1979, about 500,000 Nicaraguans left the country, exile leaders say. Nearly 150,000 reportedly settled in southern Florida, 70,000 in California, 20,000 in Texas and 10,000 in other states.
Some fled political persecution. But according to the Nicaraguans themselves, the majority left because they could not make ends meet.
So far Mrs. Chamorro's election victory in February over the Sandinistas has not produced a huge return. Even though most exiles have only temporary work permits or none at all, many say they will wait several months before deciding whether to return.
Leonardo Laines, 46 years old, has already made his decision. He is selling his Miami service station for $350,000, and intends to expand his Managua accounting company, which remained in business during his exile. He plans to depart in a month with his wife and two teen-aged children.
''People going back are mostly professsionals for whom life here has not been easy,'' he said. ''Many Nicaraguan physicians, dentists, civil engineers and others are doing low-paid menial jobs because they were unable to obtain licenses to practice their professions.''
Jose Orlando Padron has already made two trips to Nicaragua since President Bush lifted the United States trade embargo last month. He is preparing to reopen his cigar factory in Esteli, which the embargo forced him to close in 1985, laying off 170 workers.
The expertise of entrepreneurs like Mr. Laines and Mr. Padron is the key to Nicaragua's recovery, said Jose Antonio Alvarado, a Nicaragua-born Miami banker who, with an investment of $150,000, is opening a law and financial consulting firm in Managua.
Mr. Alvarado, a 37-year-old economist who directed Mrs. Chamorro's electoral campaign in the United States, expects repatriation to pick up after April 25. But he said that thousands of Nicaraguans who became American citizens or residents would go back only to visit, and that many more with no legal status here will make every effort to stay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CIVIL WAR (75%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (66%); ENGINEERING (63%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (62%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (50%); TOBACCO MFG (50%); 

PERSON: CHAMORRO, VIOLETA BARRIOS DE; VOLSKY, GEORGE GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



351 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 23, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Warm Month Damaged Part of New York's Maple Syrup Crop

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 13

 BODY:
New York farmers' maple syrup season ended this week, with reports of the 1990 crop ranging from ''dreadful'' to ''the best in the last five years.''
Although the official summary of the season will not be ready for a month, individual farmers throughout the state reported that the quantity and quality of their syrup was affected by an unseasonably warm March.
Normally, the maple syrup season in New York State starts in early March and ends in mid-April, with the maple sap flowing best when warm sunny days follow freezing nights. But this year, the sequence of cold nights followed by warm days was broken by the unusual March weather. 
In commercial operations, sap is no longer collected by metal taps emptying into buckets hanging from trees. Instead, the sap flows from the taps into plastic vacuum lines that carry it to central collecting vats, where the sap is boiled down. About 39 gallons of sap produces a gallon of syrup.
 
'Too Cold or Too Hot'
''It's been rather a poor year,'' said Arthur Merle, a producer in Attica in the western part of the state. ''The weather has been either too cold or too hot.''
Mr. Merle, who finished his production this week, said that he had a normal crop in quantity, but that much of it was dark in color rather than the light or medium amber that maple syrup users prefer.
''The economic difference is that I can sell the light amber grade for $35 a gallon to the public, but the dark commercial grade goes for $8 a gallon,'' he said.
Two other farmers, one near the Canadian border and the other in the Catskill Mountains, each reported a good year both in quantity and quality.
''Up here in the northern part of the state, we've made more syrup this year than in any of the past four or five years,'' said Earl Parker, a producer in Chazy in Clinton County.
 
'The Best Year'
Early this week, Lee and Marilyn Cole in Ferndale, in Sullivan County, ended their annual task of boiling down the sap into syrup.
''In volume, it's the best year in the last five years,'' Mr. Cole said. ''And the quality is good, too.''
Mr. Cole sells syrup at his farm for $32 a gallon, the same price as last year.
But a different production picture was reported by Sandra Putnam, who operates a grove of sugar maples with her husband, Raymond, at Richmondville in Schoharie County.
''It's been a dreadful year, the worst year we ever had,'' she said. ''Warm days at the end of March killed the season.''
She said that the heat apparently affected the chemistry of the trees, so the syrup late in the season had an off flavor.
 
Second Only to Vermont
''In quantity, we had about a third of a crop,'' she said.
Over the years, New York has been second only to Vermont in the production of maple syryp in the United States. Last year, New York produced 325,000 gallons of syrup, while Vermont produced 400,000 gallons. Together, the two states produce more than two-thirds of the maple syrup in the nation.
In Quebec, which supplies about 70 percent of the world market, production apparently was not affected by the warm March weather. Much Canadian syrup is trucked into Vermont and packaged there in cans or bottles for retail sale.
In Vermont this year, production varied according to geography, with a good crop in the colder northern part of the state and a lesser one in the south, said Robert Coombs, a producer and processor in Jacksonville. As in New York, production was affected by a warm spell in mid-March, he said.
Mr. Coombs said he had about 65 per cent of a normal crop from his own trees. He said the retail price there was $39.50 a gallon, down from $42 last year, when there was a very short crop in the area.
''All in all, it was not a very good year, not a disaster, but not a good year,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (53%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MAPLE SYRUP AND SUGAR; WEATHER MAPLE SUGAR FARMING (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); MOUNTAINS (50%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 



352 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins, in Switch, Urges Landlord Cost Index

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

 BODY:
In an apparent reversal of the position he took three years ago when he was Manhattan Borough President, Mayor David N. Dinkins is now pressing the Board of Estimate to approve a city contract for an annual cost survey that is an important feature of the rent-stabilization system. The board is scheduled to vote on the issue at a special meeting on Wednesday.
Tenant groups and other critics have long charged that the survey, as carried out, is one-sided because it looks only at the estimated operating costs of landlords and not at their rental income and profits.
The survey is intended to provide an index of the costs of supplies and services, like fuel, insurance and labor, needed to operate a building. It will be one factor the city's Rent Guidelines Board will use to set rent increases for about 600,000 rent-stabilized apartments where leases will be renewed this year. There are about 950,000 rent-stabilized apartments in the city. 
In 1987 Mr. Dinkins joined other members of the Board of Estimate to block the award of a city contract for such a survey, saying that it was ''merely a perpetuation of a flawed system using a flawed index.''
Only Mayor Edward I. Koch voted for the award of the contract at that time. The Comptroller, then Harrison J. Goldin; the City Council president, Andrew J. Stein, and the five borough presidents all voted against it, and for the first time in 17 years, the city failed to award the survey contract.
The 1987 survey was ultimately made, largely without cost to the city, by the consulting company that had done it the five previous years. In 1988 and 1989, Mayor Koch circumvented the usual contract approval process by a budgetary maneuver that gave the Board of Estimate no voice in the matter.
Mayor Dinkins, who took office on Jan. 1, put this year's contract on the agenda of the Board of Estimate, which will go out of existence this summer. Under the new City Charter, most of its duties will be transferred to the City Council. And this time Mr. Dinkins has indicated he supports the award of the contract, which is for $174,858 and would go to Speedwell Inc., an economic consultant based in Duxbury, Mass.
In a letter last month urging board members to vote for the contract, Barbara J. Fife, the Deputy Mayor for Planning and Development, recalled Mr. Dinkins's 1987 vote and said he was aware of the index's shortcomings. But, she said, in the absence of legislation that would give the rent board the power to see the books and records of building owners, ''the price index is unfortunately the only gauge of operating costs currently available to the Rent Guidelines Board.''
Mrs. Fife also said ''steps have been taken to compensate somewhat for the shortcomings of the price index.''
When the matter came before the board on April 5, a parade of speakers, many of them tenants, opposed the contract and the board decided to lay the item over until Wednesday.
 
Index Said to Exaggerate Costs
Michael McKee and other representatives from the New York State Tenant and Neighborhood Coalition said at the April 5 session that rents should be adjusted according to the needs of individual buildings rather than on the basis of an index that ''makes it appear the landlords need rent increases when in fact they do not.''
They said that from 1969 to 1982 the index had overestimated increases in the actual costs of building owners by 15 percent. And they called for a moratorium on future rent increases until owners could demonstrate a need for more rent, based on actual increases in operation and maintenance costs.
At the April 5 hearing Timothy L. Collins, executive director of the Rent Guidelines Board, acknowledged that the price index ''is just that - it measures changes in prices'' and not changes in actual operating costs. But, he added, the information was still valuable when taken into consideration with other facts.
If the contract were not approved, he said, there would still have to be some kind of index, but it would have to be produced by the rent board's staff, which would take people away from other matters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF ESTIMATE (74%); RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF ESTIMATE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; LANDLORDS; APARTMENT HOUSES; CONTRACTS RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); RENT CONTROL (91%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BUDGETS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); 

PERSON: BUDER, LEONARD; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (91%); 



353 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 41, Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Rebecca Gaskin to Wed Yorke Lawson

 BODY:
The engagement of Rebecca Louise Gaskin to Coleman Yorke Lawson, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Ferd O. Lawson Jr. of Darien, Conn., has been announced by her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Lewis J. Gaskin of Raleigh, N.C. An August wedding is planned. Miss Gaskin, 24 years old, graduated from St. Mary's College in Raleigh and Wake Forest University, and received a law degree from Emory University. She is a research assistant to Prof. Louis Lowenstein, the director of the Columbia University Center for Law and Economic Studies. Her father is an anesthesiologist and the founder of Raleigh Anesthesia Associates. Her father and mother, Patricia Gaskin, own a Christmas tree farm in Laurel Springs, N.C.
The prospective bridegroom, 36, is known as Yorke. He is a partner in Sutton Girolamo Productions, a corporate-communications production company in New York. A graduate of Darien High School and Wofford College, he received an M.B.A. from Wake Forest.
His father is the chairman and chief executive at Frederick Atkins Inc., a merchandising and research company in New York. The bridegroom's mother, Martha Best Lawson, is a real-estate broker at Realtech Associates in Darien and a partner in Flower Fantasies, also in Darien.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebecca Gaskin (Jonathan Taylor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5199 NONDURABLE GOODS, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FREDERICK ATKINS INC (69%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (83%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (68%); CHRISTMAS (54%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GASKIN, REBECCA L; LAWSON, COLEMAN Y COLEMAN YORKE LAWSON (92%); FERD O LAWSON JR (83%); REBECCA GASKIN (56%); REBECCA LOUISE GASKIN (56%); 



354 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 31, Column 2; Style Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Bowdoin;
Students Angered By Vote to Change Grading System

DATELINE: BRUNSWICK, Me.

 BODY:
The Bowdoin College faculty voted last week to change the distinctive four-level grading system it instituted in 1967 to the traditional A, B, C, D and F system. The action met with immediate protest from students.
Bowdoin's present system, consisting of high honors, honors, pass and fail, was devised primarily to de-emphasize the importance of grades and to reduce competition.
Student reaction to the change, which will take effect in the fall of 1991, has been swift: a petition protesting the decision and calling for a student referendum on the issue began circulating immediately after the faculty meeting, and by Thursday it had accumulated more than 500 signatures from among the 1,350 undergraduates. A vote will be held tomorrow. 
The issue of changing the system had been raised by the faculty several months ago and was referred to the recording committee, which recommended that the present system remain in place. But at a faculty meeting March 12 an unspecified five-point system was voted in. On Monday, the traditional system was passed by a 49-to-31 vote of the faculty.
Dana W. Mayo, a professor of chemistry and a principal proponent of the change, centered his argument on the wide range that the pass grade encompasses. He told The Bowdoin Orient, the campus newspaper, that students who received a high P in the current system were being penalized because they received the same grade as students who had given up and were barely passing the course.
 
A 60's Leftover
David S. Page, another chemistry professor favoring the change, said: ''The four-point system was an artifact from the 60's when people were trying out new things. Bowdoin is the only institution that continues that system. The reason most people use A, B, C, D, F is that it has been shown to work well.''
David Shorrock, a senior from Shaker Heights, Ohio, majoring in economics and Asian studies who was one of the three student representatives along with four faculty members and three administrators on the recording committee, labeled the faculty action ''exasperating.''
''During our three months of discussion,'' he said, ''we brought up every possible idea and weighed them all before giving our recommendation to the faculty.''
The heart of the issue, he said, was inflation of grades. ''The faculty wants to attack it. In their minds this will solve the problem.'' But, he added, the research of the committee indicated otherwise.
Mr. Shorrock also said that the new system would bring back grade-point averages and class ranks. These figures will not be calculated under the new system, but Mr. Shorrock said that students would begin considering them anyway.
 
A Selling Point
Meredith Sumner, a junior English major from Boscawen, N.H., and a leader in the petition drive, said, ''I don't think the present grading system is perfect, but I think students should have a role in any change.''
One of the major points raised in the debate has been the effect the change will have on attracting students to Bowdoin. William R. Mason, the director of admissions, considers the grading system to be ''a part of Bowdoin's singularity and character.''
''I've seen kids pick Bowdoin because its grade system puts the responsibility of learning on the student,'' he said. ''They like the intellectual ambiance that system promotes.''
Marshall Carter, a junior from Cos Cob, Conn., majoring in history and English, who was a campus tour guide last summer, agreed. ''People are really attracted to Bowdoin by the grading system and the philosophy behind it,'' he said.
Tomorrow's vote is intended to ''allow the faculty to know how the students feel and convince them to reconsider the issue,'' said the vice chairman of the student executive board, Daniel Brakewood, a senior economics major from Lincolnville, Me. A similar decision made by the faculty in 1983 was overturned when student protests succeeded in reopening the issue. ''We are using that as inspiration as we fight,'' Mr. Carter said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AB C COMMUNICATIONS CORP (93%); F IS (84%); BOWDOIN COLLEGE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOWDOIN COLLEGE

SUBJECT: GRADING OF STUDENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PETITIONS (89%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); 

PERSON: DAVID SHORROCK (61%); 



355 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
An Unpredictable Playwright Reverses Himself

BYLINE: By ROSEMARY L. BRAY; Rosemary L. Bray is an editor of The New York Times Book Review.

 BODY:
George C. Wolfe is a man in the midst of transition. A playwright (''The Colored Museum,'' his 1986 satire of black American life) and director of the forthcoming ''Spunk,'' Mr. Wolfe says he's been feeling different lately. At first he thought it had to do with turning 35 last September. But he's more inclined to pin his current state of mind on New Year's Day 1990 and his annual gumbo party.
''I throw this big, open extravaganza,'' Mr. Wolfe said last week in a local coffee shop, his hands a constant blur as he spoke. ''Every year it's gotten bigger and bigger. And this year I was so aware of my responsibility.'' Careful with words, he uttered this last not with distaste so much as fascination. ''Other years the party was a kind of purge, a way to begin this other energy. But somehow, this time was all about, 'O.K., now, peel the shrimp; do we have enough cups?' I felt like I was doing this adult thing.''
Now that responsibility has set in, his task, he has decided, is to figure out how to maintain a sense of freedom - in his life as well as his work. ''I'm no longer a part of some form; it's up to me to define it.'' 
As an example, he compares his two roles these days: ''When you're writing, in theory, everybody is serving you. When you're directing, you're serving everybody - in the guise of acting like everybody's serving you. But you're really serving the materials. You're serving the actors. You're in charge, but it's not free.''
Mr. Wolfe may have retained the unconventionality he prizes. The plain-spoken people of ''Spunk'' seem worlds away from the wacky, often embittered, satiric characters who inhabit ''The Colored Museum.'' Reviewing the latter, Frank Rich said in The Times in 1986 that the author is the kind of satirist ''who takes no prisoners.'' Mr. Wolfe says the unthinkable, Mr. Rich said, with uncompromising wit.
But that is not the playwright's aim in ''Spunk,'' which opens Wednesday at the Public Theater. The work is made up of vignettes with dance and music, all inspired by three Zora Neale Hurston short stories about blacks in the urban and rural America of the 1920's. Even when Hurston, a Harlem Renaissance writer, playwright and folklorist, first published these tales, a certain segment of the black community resented her use of dialect and the ''common people'' who were her focus. And since one of the most famous scenes in Mr. Wolfe's ''Colored Museum'' is ''The Last-Mama-on-the-Couch Play,'' a sharp-edged satirization of black maternal stereotypes, it might seem strange that Mr. Wolfe feels so strongly about working with Hurston's material.
He's quick to remind, though, that what he ridiculed in his previous play was the ''reprocessing of those old, stereotypical images,'' not the real people on whom they were based. Hurston's characters, he says, are complex and genuine, and their language is what he likes to call ''Southern colored classical.''
''I think she was an extraordinary writer,'' he said. ''Her characters - as she did - have an outrageous sense of self, which I feel a certain kinship to. I found these stories incredibly theatrical. And there were qualities in them that as a writer I would not naturally write, textures I wouldn't naturally go toward. There's a gentleness in her characters that I'm in awe of in her writing.''
He has retained much of Hurston's narrative because, ''I didn't want to surrender it. Her dialogue is dazzling and smart, but her truths exist inside her narrative.'' Hurston, who is having a renaissance herself, was the co-author with Langston Hughes of ''Mule Bone,'' scheduled for a Lincoln Center production this summer. A play by Laurence Holder based on her life was performed at the American Place Theater in February.
Connecting the three ''Spunk'' stories, Mr. Wolfe says, is Hurston's view of what makes survival possible. Despite the human tendency to construct defenses against life's troubles, those defenses are inevitably swept away. ''When her characters survive, it's because of that grit, that sense of self that is hidden or gets misplaced along the way.'' It is a theme mirrored in the musical prologue, ''How Do I Git to the Git?'':
 
I git to the git
With some blues and some grit
And some paint and some spit
And some spunk.
The cast members, including Danitra Vance and Reggie Montgomery, who appeared in ''The Colored Museum,'' play not only the characters in each Hurston story, but additional roles written by Mr. Wolfe, including Blues Speak Woman, Guitar Man and The Folk. These figures appear during the action to reveal the characters' inner feelings; they act as ''the voices that know the truth,'' he says. Mr. Wolfe found his inspiration for them in Japanese theater. ''I wanted to incorporate certain principles of Noh that translated into Southern black culture,'' he said.
''Story in Harlem Slang'' is his favorite of the three. ''It's such a celebration of language, a celebration of the rituals of colored folks that is so exquisite!'' he said with obvious delight. Two unemployed men, out and about on Harlem's Lenox Avenue, set their sights on the same young domestic worker on payday. Their ostensible object is to attract the woman and get a free meal.
''These characters may not have any money, they may not have anywhere to live, but they know how to talk!'' he said. ''If they could translate the brilliance of their language into other things, into work - they could transform the world. To have nothing, yet to have such a tremendous sense of self is an extraordinary act.''
In ''Sweat,'' Delia is a married woman with only her job as a laundress and her love of God to sustain her in the face of a straying husband and his growing public humiliation of her.
''The Gilded Six Bits,'' is based on ''what I think is one of the most flawlessly written short stories ever,'' Mr. Wolfe said. ''There is a phenomenon that exists within the story that I just think is a phenomenon in the canon of literature about black Americans - a masculine, gentle black man is at the center of this story.'' He is fascinated at Hurston's twist on the standard tale of love betrayed. ''It's always the woman who's betrayed, and the woman who's expected to endure, and get over it.''
''Spunk'' began in Los Angeles in 1989 as a cabaret piece presented by the Mark Taper Forum. Then, after a development workshop, Mr. Wolfe, and the composer Chic Street Man (who wrote much of the music for the production and is also in the cast) moved east to the Crossroads Theater in New Brunswick, N.J., where ''Spunk'' opened for a six-week run in November of last year. Joseph Papp subsequently offered it a new home at the Public Theater.
Along with ''Spunk,'' Mr. Wolfe has been at work for several years on a musical, ''Mr. Jelly Lord,'' about Jelly Roll Morton, the pioneering jazz pianist and composer. ''It's a thrilling project,'' he said, speaking of his collaboration with Susan Birkenhead, the lyricist, and Luther Henderson, who is acting as a musical supervisor for Morton's music. Before that, Mr. Wolfe had been devoting time to another production, ''Queenie Pie,'' about a Harlem hairdresser, but said he has ''suspended my involvement with 'Queenie Pie' to complete work on 'Mr. Jelly Lord.' '' A production date for ''Mr. Jelly Lord'' will be announced soon, he said. But in any case, he is determined that the musical will be his last foray into the 1920's. He had intended to leave the decade a lot sooner, but something kept pulling him to the characters he found there and that something most recently has been ''Spunk.''
''Sometimes we're in rehearsal and a moment's not right and something's not working or I'm arguing about a costume - anything. And then an actor executes something that embodies the celebration of a culture, that has the delicacy of being a human being, that has this theatrical elegance to it. And I think 'Oh, that's why we're trying to pull all these disparate rhythms together.' '' They're very disarming stories, if we can get it right. That's what we're working toward - getting it right.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The director, George C. Wolfe, second from right, with cast members, from left, Reggie Montgomery, Ann Duquesnay and K. Todd Freeman in ''Spunk,'' adapted by Mr. Wolfe from three tales by Zora Neale Hurston, opening Wednesday at the Public (Martha Swope) (pg. 7); Danitra Vance and Vickilyn Reynolds in ''The Colored Museum,'' a 1986 satire by George C. Wolfe. (Martha Swope) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); RACE & RACISM (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); FOLKLORE (60%); 

PERSON: FRANK RICH (50%); 



356 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: RECORDINGS;
COMPOSERS WHO HAD TO TRIUMPH OVER PREJUDICE

BYLINE: By K. ROBERT SCHWARZ; K. Robert Schwarz is a research assistant at the Institute for Studies in American Music at Brooklyn College.

 BODY:
Mention black American music, and most people will probably think of Ella Fitzgerald or Duke Ellington, of James Brown or Public Enemy. But few will think of William Grant Still, or of a host of black American classical composers. Their achievements are an integral part of the black musical heritage, however, and they have played a significant role in American music - even if they have been relegated to footnote status by the history books.
Of course, it is not difficult to ascertain the reason for this neglect. Racism on the part of the white musical establishment worked to deny blacks entry into the European-oriented world of American concert music. Publishers closed their doors to black musicians; conservatories turned away black students; orchestras refused to consider scores by black composers. When the black bandleader and composer Francis Johnson played in Pittsburgh in 1843, a contemporary report said that a ''mob followed Mr. Johnson and his company . . . hurling brickbats, stones and rotten eggs in great profusion.'' 
Even today, while blacks enjoy international acclaim for their popular music, a black presence in the classical-music world seems as tenuous as ever. Schools of music have few black students and professors; orchestras have few black players and conductors; black composers of concert music seem no more common now than in the 1930's. It is apparently a subtler sort of racism at play today, an economic one, which denies public arts education and career opportunities to young musicians who might most flourish if given the chance.
What is so remarkable is that in every generation of American history there have been black composers able to surmount the odds and establish professional careers. We hear far too little today about these men and women, but several recent recordings and reissues allow us to experience their music first-hand.
No one better demonstrates a composer's triumph over racism than Francis Johnson (1792-1844). Johnson, whose career was centered in Philadelphia, was internationally renowned as a bugle virtuoso and bandleader. His own music, mostly marches and formal dance numbers, occupies the bulk of Musicmasters MMD6 10236F (CD only). Of the 22 pieces recorded here, none survive in their original orchestrations, but their modern reconstructions reveal a composer of toe-tapping music who was endlessly inventive within the confines of small, rigid forms. The Chestnut Brass Company and Friends perform with rousing spirit, even if the recalcitrant original instruments do not always cooperate in matters of intonation.
By the end of the 19th century, mainstream American concert music consisted primarily of an imitation of European styles and forms. Dvorak, who lived here in the 1890's, could not understand why American composers did not embrace our native folk music, especially that of blacks. ''In the Negro melodies of America, I discover all that is needed for a great and noble school of music,'' he wrote. And a whole generation of American composers heeded his call, incorporating black spirituals and dances into their concert music.
Among these composers was R. Nathaniel Dett (1882-1943), whose piano music is recorded on New World NW-367-2 (CD and LP) in performances by Dennis Oldham. Over and over again, especially in Dett's early ''Magnolia Suite'' (1912) and ''In the Bottoms'' (1913), spirituallike modal or pentatonic melodies emerge from the late-Romantic mists. Sometimes these folk tunes are used overtly, as in the infectiously rhythmic ''Juba Dance.'' But more often Dett's fragile folklike sources seem overwhelmed, drowned within the European chromatic harmonies and dense late-Romantic textures.
If the piano music of Florence Price (1888-1953) is more successful than Dett's, it is, I suspect, because she set out to be a composer, and only secondarily one who would make reference to folk materials. Price earned trailblazer status when her Symphony in E minor, performed in 1933 by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, became the first work by a black woman to be played by an American orchestra. In 1932, Price composed a Piano Sonata in E minor, which remained unpublished and unrecorded until a 1987 release by the pianist Althea Waites (Cambria CT-1027; cassette and LP). Price's sonata is filled with poignant pentatonic melodies of obviously black derivation. But these melodies un-self-consciously arise out of her own compositional voice; they are not artificially planted within some foreign turf. And Price's fine control over large formal structures makes the sonata's turbulent late Romanticism a pleasure to follow.
By the 1930's, a black Renaissance was well underway in all the arts, embracing the poet Langston Hughes, the composer William Grant Still and the tenor Roland Hayes. Hayes (1887-1976), the first notable black concert singer, set the stage for better-known performers such as Paul Robeson and Marian Anderson. But he was a fine singer on his own terms, as is demonstrated by ''The Art of Roland Hayes'' (Smithsonian RD-041; CD only). This collection of 11 art songs and 12 spirituals consists primarily of recordings made in the 1950's, when the tenor was well past his prime. But the spirituals, delivered in a richly emotive, gorgeously shaded manner, stand as a lasting monument to the vitality of the black folk tradition.
Among composers, the 1930's saw a reinvigorated desire to turn to black-American forms as the basis for a distinctive classical music. This nationalism was, of course, only a part of the general mood of the era, which affected white composers like Copland and Thomson no less than blacks. But Still's ''Afro-American Symphony'' (1930) predated the nationalism of his white contemporaries, and made history as the first work by a black composer to be played by a major orchestra.
Still, who had experience in popular as well as classical music, used modern blues and jazz idioms in his symphony, rather than the more acceptable spirituals. It is the blues, especially, that permeates the ''Afro-American Symphony'' (reissued on Library of Congress OMP-105 [CD and cassette], in a 1965 performance by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra under Karl Krueger). Inventive in its orchestration and lively in its rhythms, Still's work can't help but impress with its sincerity of purpose. But its poor control over form and development make it more a pastiche of seductive tunes than a real symphony.
William Grant Still, however, had the good sense to keep his harmonic language simple, so as not to violate the spirit of his sources. Not so with William Levi Dawson, whose ''Negro Folk Symphony'' (1934) has been reissued in a ragged 1964 performance by the American Symphony Orchestra under Leopold Stokowski (MCA Classics MCAD2-9826A; CD only). Dawson (born in 1899) prefers spirituals to the less reputable blues, and he incorporates both newly composed and genuine folk material. Yet all is cast within a grandiose, hyper-emotive context, replete with slinky chromatic harmonies and bombastic climaxes. Even though Dawson's handling of symphonic form seems more astute than Still's, the alien garb ends up nearly obliterating the once-eloquent sources.
The problem with the large works of Still and Dawson - and to a lesser extent with the miniatures of Dett - is the disparity between the simple, self-contained black-American material and the extended European forms. It is a disparity rooted in the composer's own attitude toward the folk traditions. Dett wrote in 1918 that those traditions ''will be of no value unless our musical architects take the rough timber of Negro themes and fashion from it music which will prove that we, too, have national feelings. . . .'' Many years later, Still wrote that he ''wanted to demonstrate how the blues, so often considered a lowly expression, could be elevated to the highest musical level.''
The undercurrent is all too clear: the spirituals dances, and blues were not worthy enough in their unadorned state; they supposedly needed to be elevated so that they could compete with the achievements of European art music. Today, such an attitude seems naive, and it may account for the fact that this music - along with so much of American nationalism - went out of fashion after World War II. But for a composer like Still, who wanted to be judged by European standards, the path to success lay in couching black traditions in terms acceptable to white audiences.
The result is not the greatest music America has produced. And it is far from the greatest black music, for Bessie Smith's ''Lost Your Head Blues'' (1926), Duke Ellington's ''Ko-Ko'' (1940) - or Anthony Davis's opera ''X'' (1986) - are all more vital in their cultural stance than the ''Afro-American Symphony.'' Nevertheless, when viewed from today's perspective, composers like Dett, Price, Still and Dawson cannot help but appear heroic. They fought back against the racism of their country and of their chosen profession, and time has been their vindication.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Francis Johnson; Photos: William L. Dawson (P.H. Polk); William Grant Still; Tenor Roland Hayes (Underwood & Underwood)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MUSIC GROUP LTD (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUSIC (93%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); HISTORY (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); 

PERSON: JAMES BROWN (74%); ELLA FITZGERALD (74%); 



357 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: Protecting the Environment: How Much Can Tax Policy

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Since the start of the year, American producers of chlorofluorocarbons, or CFC's, and other chemicals that deplete the atmosphere's ozone have been paying an excise tax expected to raise $4.3 billion over the next five years. Accounting firms have been warning business clients that the tax, termed a user fee by the Bush Administration, could be the first of a host of new environmentally related levies. Environmental tax credits and incentives are also being proposed, like tax breaks for waste incineration systems. What are the prospects for these proposals? How will they affect businesses and American competitivness? Nicholas Ashford, an associate professor of technology and policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Paul Huard, vice president in charge of tax policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, and Bill Walsh of Greenpeace Action, a Washington-based environmental group, recently met to discuss these issues. Barnaby J. Feder of The New York Times moderated.
 
Question: Why use taxation in addition to regulation to address environmental problems?
 
Nicholas Ashford: I can see three reasons: to raise revenue, change incentives or out of moral concerns. You might want to make polluters pay without regard to how much revenue you raise. 
 
Paul Huard: We must look at tax policy, including incentives, rather than just taxes. Our members tend to break down the universe into carrots and sticks. By and large, we prefer the carrots, largely for economic reasons. Though the sticks may achieve the same results, in many cases, they don't work very well in the context of the global economy. You may make manufacturers less competitive; that reduces employment, G.N.P., and ultimately the revenue you pick up from the environmental taxes.
 
Bill Walsh: Also, taxes are a good way to get at small businesses, which are often among the worst polluters but outside the scope of regulation.
 
Q. What is likely to emerge from Congress this year?
 
Mr. Huard: The best result would be no bill at all. But I would not be surprised to see some environmental penalty taxes because they are convenient sources of quick revenue.
There are so many floating around, like taxes on harvesting virgin redwoods. I wouldn't rule out taxes on sulfur and nitrogen oxides, even though there are going to be emissions limits in the Clean Air Bill.
 
Q. Are you saying that environmental taxes are simply an ''in'' method on Capitol Hill for raising revenue?
 
Mr. Huard: Most of them are for the revenue. I don't think many would pass otherwise because of the demonstrable impact in lost jobs or the G.N.P. But yes, the Federal budget process has made quick, short-term sources of revenue the be-all and end-all of getting out and going home.
 
Mr. Walsh: I agree that some taxes are likely because they are quick hits. Some kind of tax on acid rain is most likely. I don't know what else will move out of the starting gate, but there are an awful lot of horses lined up. What's not going to happen is what needs to happen: - a fundamental thinking about the environmental impact of the tax laws.
 
Q. Are you saying that policy questions are getting ignored in the rush for revenue?
 
Mr. Ashford: We will disagree on specifics, but there are win-win situations we cannot fashion because of the quick-fix mentality of the Congress.
 
Mr. Walsh: You could reap huge revenues from emission or input taxes, or by cutting depletion allowances. But that doesn't make sense when other aspects of the tax code are pushing industry in the wrong direction, away from an environmental perspective - and an economic one.
 
Q. Can't these taxes be seen simply as a way to force markets to take into account the true costs of pollution?
 
Mr. Ashford: But it's not just a matter of internalizing social costs. The current tax structure distorts the investment picture. For example, you get accelerated depreciation for pollution-control equipment. But if, God forbid, an industrialist says I want to change my process to improve productivity and, by the way, it will cut my sulfur dioxide emissions to zero, he won't get favored tax treatment.
 
Mr. Huard: Yes, it's crazy. You get better results if you look for the win-win situation: better productivity and better products at lower cost, and a cleaner environment. But you can only do that with well thought out, very targeted incentives.
 
Q. Are there other environmental problems in the tax code beyond sending the wrong investment cues?
 
Mr. Ashford: Through standard deductions we subsidize improper behavior. People can deduct what they pay to transport hazardous waste to an illegal dump. Punitive damages when people lose environmental liability suits are deductible.
 
Mr. Walsh: That's not all. If you are engaged in illegal dumping, whether through pipes or trucks, you can still deduct all your expenses, even if a court has found your activity illegal.
 
Q. Is concern about global competitiveness holding back environmental tax reform, or is that a straw man?
 
Mr. Ashford: A straw man. There's a world trend toward these policies and any differences will be short-lived.
 
Mr. Huard: I'm not so sanguine. A company won't pick up a plant and move it to Belgium, but if you unilaterally impose penalties on multinationals, they will stop or reduce production here and increase it in a country that doesn't beat them over the head.
 
Mr. Walsh: International trade concerns don't need to be a barrier. This could be an opportunity for the big multinationals - the DuPonts of the world - to support similar policies in various countries and build a business constituency for rational change. But, at least from what I have seen with CFC's, the multinationals tend to play countries against each other.
 
Q. So environmental tax policy can be a way of improving competitiveness?
 
Mr. Ashford: It's a world market we could exploit, one that the Japanese and Europeans are not exploiting. We are at the cutting edge in these new, environmentally safe technologies. I think the real tension is within the industrial sector, not between industrialists and environmentalists. How do you shift from old technologies to new and safer one and make it palatable politically?
 
Q. Are any other countries taking a better approach?
 
Mr. Huard: Several have special accelerated provisions for pollution abatement facilities. But I don't know of any that has a well thought out policy of incentives for conversion to desirable processes.
 
Q. Are there problems squaring environmental taxes or incentives with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or our other international trade treaties?
 
Mr. Huard: Most arise on the tax side, like proposals taxing the use of virgin materials. Opponents say that puts American producers at a disadvantage; so the proponents say, fine, we'll put an equivalent tariff on imports. That's a problem under G.A.T.T.
 
Mr. Walsh: You can avoid some problems by how you interpret G.A.T.T. I believe it has provisions for protection of natural resources. We also need an environmental perspective in the current G.A.T.T. negotiations.
 
Q. Should revenues from environmental taxes be dedicated to solving environmental problems?
 
Mr. Ashford: I think we have to earmark some of them to help industry develop cleaner technology.
 
Mr. Huard: The problem with dedicated trust funds is that the money gets collected and spent even when the need has dissipated or, even worse, it's allowed to pile up to make the deficit look smaller. There's a lot to be said for collecting general revenues and letting various social demands compete. Make Congress set priorities; that's what it's elected for.
 
Mr. Walsh: Clearly, reducing the deficit also benefits everybody. But there's a need to turn back some funds into environmental R. & D.
 
Q. What about dedicated taxes to compensate people injured by pollution?
 
Mr. Ashford: Tax policy ought to be used to make polluting industries pay up front for the damage they do. We are not doing that. Just look at the social costs of the Johns Manville bankruptcy and the people going uncompensated for asbestos injuries.
 
Mr. Walsh: The incredible example is the Lead Institute's rejection of any kind of tax to establish a fund to remove lead paint from inner-city buildings even though a study by the Environmental Defense Fund demonstrated that we have three million children suffering from lead poisoning. It's an immoral cost imposed on the neediest in society.
 
Mr. Huard: But a lot of these things are very hard to quantify, particularly if you are guessing up front, as would have been the case with asbestos, where it takes decades for the injuries to become apparent. We prefer to rely on general revenues to cover societal costs.
 
Q. How important is the problem of quantifying environmental costs in setting tax policy?
 
Mr. Walsh: We are at the point where we can no longer wait to tally up the costs. By the time everyone is convinced that global warming has bad consequences and we have the data to back that up, it will be too late.
 
Mr. Huard: I think we will have more areas of agreement if we stick to clean vs. dirty, as opposed to warm vs. warmer.
 
Mr. Ashford: It's a question of which mistake you want to avoid. On global warming, you can start now and have a relatively painless transition. If you wait until all the evidence comes in, it will be painful. There's no reason not to start demanding much more energy efficiency now.
 
Q. Is anyone in the business community trying to put forth a sound environmental tax policy? Or is business in a strictly reactive stance?
 
Mr. Huard: For the short term anyway; we spend all of our times putting out fires and it's hard to change that. Our membership may be too broad for something like that.
 
Mr. Walsh: Trade groups shouldn't have to do this. It's the job of the Ways and Means Committee and the President. Someone has to sort through the competing interests, shine a light toward the goal and carve out a path. Then you can bring the diverse interests to the table for debates about time and specifics.
 
Q. Should environmental taxes be put on hold until a sound policy is worked out?
 
Mr. Walsh: No, we shouldn't wait for Congress to do the right thing. Taxes on things like acid rain or the cutting of virgin timber at least express an interest and there would be some benefits.
 
Mr. Ashford: We are not even paying for the occupational environmental diseases we are causing, so you if you tax polluting industries, you can't be doing the wrong thing - even though you have to do much more than that.
 
Mr. Huard: When you talk about acid rain, smog or failure to meet ozone standards, there are definite problems that need to be dealt with. But other problems are more long range. Taxes on virgin timber or other materials to encourage recycling, for example, are particularly wrongheaded. If you look at the major industries involved, such as paper or plastic producers, the people using the virgin materials are also the leading recyclers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Walsh of Greenpeace; Paul Huard of N.A.M.; Nicholas Ashford of M.I.T.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: INTERVIEW

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (70%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (83%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); CHLORINE (90%); FLUORINE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; ASHFORD, NICHOLAS; HUARD, PAUL; WALSH, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) PAUL WALSH (84%); 



358 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Cleaning Up Penny-Stock Fraud

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
A new bill that would strengthen Federal oversight of the nation's ''penny stock'' market could be the acid test of just how serious the securities industry and Federal regulators are about tackling the widespread and chronic fraud that characterizes that marketplace.
Penny stocks are low-priced securities that trade over the counter but are not listed on Nasdaq. They trade chiefly in the ''pink sheets,'' printed listings of brokers' offers to buy and sell that are distributed daily among market makers.
The proposed legislation takes aim squarely at that primitive marketplace, and would require that it be replaced with a computerized price-quote network under the auspices of a self-regulatory group like the National Association of Securities Dealers. It also would give regulators at the Securities and Exchange Commission new powers to sanction the promoters and consultants involved. 
One thing the bill cannot do, of course, is dictate that regulators, despite their expressions of concern about fraud in the penny-stock market, be enthusiastic. And neither organization, so far, has shown much support for the measure. Joseph Hardiman, president of the N.A.S.D., has said that he sees no need for Federal legislation in the penny-stock arena, and Richard C. Breeden, the S.E.C. chairman, has told Congress that, while some additional rules might be needed, he did not favor any sweeping changes in legislation.
The proposed legislation was introduced April 4 by Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's subcommitteee on finance. There seems to be some some bipartisan energy behind the proposal: it was co-sponsored by both Representative John Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and the influential chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Representative Matthew Rinaldi, Republican of New Jersey. And the bill has won an emphatic endorsement from the North American Securities Admininstrators Association, which represents state securities regulators and their counterparts in Canada and Mexico.
Susan E. Bryant, president of N.A.S.A.A. and the top securities regulator in Oklahoma, said last week that she plans to testify in favor of the bill at a subcommittee hearing scheduled for April 25 in Washington. Ms. Bryant, whose office has been aggressive in its policing of penny-stock sales in Oklahoma, is particularly pleased with the bill's call for an automated trading system. As it is, she said, investors find it almost impossible to get accurate information about the trading volume in a stock or the range of prices dealers are quoting.
Equally important, she said, is the bill's focus on the shadowy promoters and penny-stock consultants who are currently beyond the reach of regulators because they are not licensed brokers or underwriters. The involvement of ''repeat offenders of state and Federal securities laws and other felons'' has come to be one of the ''dominant characteristics'' of the penny-stock market, she said.
Mr. Markey, in introducing the bill, also noted that his subcommittee has found that ''even the most recidivist criminals imaginable, having been barred from acting as brokers or dealers, wind up as manipulative promoters in the penny-stock business.''
But less sensational provisions of the Markey bill also deserve attention, especially the proposed restrictions on stock offerings known as ''blank checks'' and ''blind pools.''
Boiled down from the prospectus boilerplate, a ''blank check'' company simply proposes to sell stock to the public and use the investors' money to shop around for some other business to buy. No business plans or details are provided. A ''blind pool'' offering is slightly more forthcoming: it indicates the general sector of the economy in which the shopping spree would occur - oil, perhaps, or technology.
The problems with these ''trust-me'' stocks is that once a blank-check venture has been registered with the S.E.C., it is a public company - and whatever it decides to buy becomes a public company, without the formal fuss and additional disclosure involved in an official public offering. These transactions are called ''reverse mergers,'' because the acquired company is the surviving entity. And they have been the rage among fraudulent penny-stock dealers and promoters for years, as any review of recent penny-stock fraud cases will show.
The Markey bill would simply prohibit blank-check and blind-pool companies from registering with the S.E.C., and would prevent them from selling their shares publicly. Even more importantly, it would require that some self-regulatory organization, like the N.A.S.D., review penny-stock offerings to assure that they are not used for fraudulent purposes and are consistent with ''just and equitable principles of trade,'' as required by Federal law.
Since 1934, regulation of the securities markets in the United States has been grounded on the notion that adequate, truthful disclosure is a sufficient antidote to stock fraud. That is why blank-check companies have been free to register with the S.E.C. in the past, so long as they candidly disclosed that they had no idea what they would do with investors' money.
The Markey bill envisions a tougher standard for registration and trading. It suggests that there are some companies that simply should not be permitted to register with the S.E.C. and sell shares to the public, no matter how candid their paperwork may be. And it puts the responsibility for screening out those companies squarely on the shoulders of the regulators at the S.E.C. and the N.A.S.D.
Both organizations have made many pronouncements over the past year about their determination to move against penny-stock fraud in the marketplace. The Markey bill seems to offer them a chance to tackle the problem before it reaches the marketplace - and before the public's money is at risk.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan E. Bryant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (70%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (74%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (74%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (91%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); US STATE SECURITIES REGULATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FELONIES (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B EDWARD J MARKEY (54%); BETSY MARKEY (54%); JOHN DINGELL (50%); 



359 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: I.B.M. reports first-quarter earnings.
A suit brought by Robert Kearns, who won a patent infringement verdict against Ford for his windshield-wiper design, proceeds to consideration of damages. 
 
TUESDAY: Consumer prices for March.
Housing starts for March.
Robert Freeman, a former executive of Goldman, Sachs faces sentencing for insider trading.
Chicago Mercantile Exchange members vote on restrictions on trading financial futures.
 
WEDNESDAY: Merchandise trade balance for February.
 
THURSDAY: State per capita income for 1989, fourth quarter.
 
FRIDAY: Federal budget statement for March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: CALENDAR

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CME GROUP INC (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PATENTS (88%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); SENTENCING (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (85%); BUDGETS (85%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (84%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (83%); INSIDER TRADING (83%); FUTURES (83%); HOUSING STARTS (55%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (52%); 

PERSON: ROBERT KEARNS (61%); ROBERT FREEMAN (56%); 



360 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/April 8-13

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Soda for Ships
 
Now this is a floating exchange rate. American Pepsi for Soviet ships. In a $3 billion deal - the largest ever between an American company and the Soviet Union - Pepsico will vastly expand its sales there in return for a flood of Stolichnaya vodka and a fleet of freighters and tankers. Since the ruble cannot be converted into Western currencies, companies operating in the Soviet Union have to look for other ways to take out their profits. Pepsico has been a leader in penetrating Soviet markets. Donald M. Kendall, the chairman of the company's executive committee, is ''Mr. U.S.-Soviet trade,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Now other Western companies will be watching to see how much Pepsi can profit from perestroika.
 
From Low-Tech to High-Tech
 
In Japan, even low-technology companies are going high-tech. The Mitsubishi Mining and Cement Company has closed its last coal mine, while the Mitsubishi Metal Corporation has closed its last Japanese mine of any sort. The two announced on Wednesday that they would merge to concentrate on developing sophisticated new materials for industries like computers and electronics. The new company will have annual sales of $5.7 billion. Impressive, but not enough to make the new company more than a supporting actor within the powerful Mitsubishi Group of allied companies. Annual sales for Mitsubishi Electric Corporation alone are more than $19 billion. 
 
Buying Safer Tankers
 
The American Petroleum Institute questions whether two hulls make an oil tanker less prone to oil spills than one. The issue needs more study, the trade group says. But Conoco Inc. has already reached its own conclusion. On Tuesday, the company, a subsidiary of Du Pont, broke with the industry by announcing an order for two new tankers with the extra hulls. ''We realize that double-hulled tankers are not the total solution, but they do offer an increased margin of protection against oil spills,'' said Constantine S. Nicandros, Conoco's president. ARCO appears to favor the double hulls as well. The extra protection raises the cost of a ship by 5 to 15 percent. A Coast Guard study cited by the Natural Resources Defense Council said that if the Exxon Valdez tanker had a double hull, it would have spilled 15 to 60 percent less oil onto Alaska's shores and seas last year. Congress is considering legislation to make double hulls mandatory.
 
 
Lockheed Wins - And Loses
 
The battle between Harold C. Simmons and Lockheed could be one that both sides lose. The Lockheed Corporation claimed victory on Tuesday in a proxy fight with Mr. Simmons for control of the company and its board. But Mr. Simmons won several shareholder rights measures, one calling for the abolition of a ''poison pill'' defense against a takeover and another for voluntary exemption from Delaware's anti-takeover laws. Mr. Simmons, who owns nearly 10 percent of Lockheed's shares, says he will continue pressing the company to improve shareholder value. But some analysts believe that Lockheed's value is more likely to go down. ''They're looking at a defense budget that's going to decline precipitously over the next three or four years,'' said Michael Rosen, an aeronautics analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. ''Major programs in the aeronautical systems division are winding down.'' Whatever the company's fate, Mr. Simmons has had enough success in budging an obstinate board to encourage others to wage proxy fights for control of major companies.
 
 
M.C.I.'s Growth Spurt
 
The MCI Communications Corporation plans to pick up another 1.4 percent of the long-distance telephone market - through an expensive acquisition rather than discounted service. MCI, the nation's second-largest long-distance telephone company, announced an agreement on Monday to buy Telecom USA Inc., the fourth largest, for $1.25 billion. Analysts lauded the deal, saying it would combine MCI's residential and big-business customers with Telecom's medium-size accounts in medium-size cities. But the new company, with more than 13 percent of the long-distance market, would still be dwarfed by A.T.& T., with 71 percent. The deal is subject to review by the Justice Department.
 
 
Clearing the Air
 
Men in a shadowy, smoke-filled room are plotting to woo new smokers to replace those who quit or die. They cackle with laughter as one of them says, ''Gentlemen, we're not in this for our health.'' The scene is from a paid television commercial in a new anti-smoking campaign that California launched on Tuesday. The state will spend $26.8 million over the next 18 months, much of it to show tart, pointed advertisements during prime time. Gone are the sober public-service announcements that aired at odd hours to an audience of insomniacs and night watchmen. ''The objective is to change the image that the tobacco industry has created for smokers,'' said Kenneth W. Kizer, director of the California Department of Health Services.
 
 
Boeing's Japan Connection
 
The Boeing Company plans to rely on three Japanese corporations for major components needed to develop a new commercial jet, the 300-seat 767-X. Boeing abandoned earlier plans for giving the companies equity in the project, which raised fears about whether the Japanese would gain enough expertise in aerospace to challenge American manufacturers.
 
 
CBS Bets on Sports
 
CBS Inc. found that betting on sports can pay off. First-quarter earnings, reported on Wednesday, rose 52 percent from the year before to $85.3 million. CBS profited by adding the Super Bowl and two games from the NCAA basketball semifinals to its first-quarter schedule. But its prime-time ratings continue to disappoint. And it paid so much for sporting events later this year that analysts predict weak earnings - unless the World Series involves a couple big-city teams that battle to six or seven games.
 
 
 
ECONOMY
 
 
Incompetence or Greed?
 
Last week's savings and loan horror story: William S. Sessions, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said on Wednesday that the institutions seized by the Government are shot through with fraud. His said his agency will have to spend years hiring and training investigators familiar with accounting, banking, real estate, energy and white-collar shenanigans; sorting through truckloads of documents, and then proving to juries that savings and loan executives lost billions not through incompetence alone, but also through thievery. The incompetence argument is strong, judging from the billions these units sank into ''junk bonds'' and even junkier real estate. The horror story from the week before, remember, was the General Accounting Office's estimate that the bailout would cost $325 billion to $500 billion..
 
 
More Bond Defaults
 
The darkest forecasts of corporate bond defaults soon come to seem far too optimistic. The Bond Investors Association predicted in January that defaults would rise to a record $15 billion this year from $11.9 billion in 1989. But bond issues totaling $5.7 billion defaulted in the first quarter alone, the association reported. Leave out the $3.5 billion Campeau default, and the total would still be 64 percent ahead of last year. Richard Lehmann, the association's president, lists Western Union, Southland and Ames Department Stores among the companies most likely to default.
 
 
Explaining the Drop in Prices
 
Cheaper clothing, vegetables and gasoline helped drive wholesale prices down two-tenths of 1 percent in March. Economists -surprised by Friday's report of the first drop in seven months - were all but consulting the Old Farmer's Almanac for explanations. A warm winter, said Donald Ratajczak, director of the Georgia State University Economic Forecasting Center, meant ''tomatoes came on line more quickly than expected.'' The core rate of producer price inflation, excluding food and energy, rose three-tenths of 1 percent.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Investing in Japan Inc.
 
The Japanese keep spending on their corporations, if not on themselves. Last year, they invested $750 billion, about 24 percent of gross national product, in plants, equipment, and research and development. The United States spent $500 billion, or 10 percent of gross national product. Analysts say Japanese companies have enough cash to sustain investment despite higher interest rates and a falling stock market. American negotiators urge the Japanese to consume more. The response, from a recent book co-written by Akio Morita, the Sony chairman: ''We are focusing on business 10 years in advance, while you seem to be concerned only with profits 10 minutes from now. At that rate, you may well never be able to compete with us.''
 
 
Soviets Short on Cash
 
Can the Soviet Union pay for its grain? Shippers are complaining of late Soviet payments, which might amount to almost a half-billion dollars. Some grain dealers have stopped selling there on credit. Soviet payment problems extend to other areas; the Soviet Union reportedly defaulted on late charges for tankers waiting in the Black Sea to load Soviet oil. But Soviet oil exports appear to be holding up even if production and domestic consumption are off. Some economists say the trouble is less a lack of hard currency than bureaucratic confusion. But Thane Gustafson, a Soviet specialist for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, wonders whether the country is dealing with ''a succession of micro-crises, or the beginning of a macro-crisis.''
 
 
Americans in Brazil
 
American companies face losses from Brazil's economic turmoil. Johnson & Johnson announced a $125 million write-off on Wednesday; one reason is Brazil's radical new program to fight inflation, which its Congress approved on Wednesday. Measures imposed by President Fernando Collor de Mello have already pitched Brazil into a recession.

GRAPHIC: Photo William S. Sessions, F.B.I. Director; graphs: corporate bond defaults, by quarter, 1988-1st quarter 1990 (Source: Bond Investors Association); total captial investment as a percentage of gross natinal product for Japan and the United States, 1978-1989* (*1989 estimate) (Source: Duetsche Bank); pie chart: market share of long-distance telephone market based on 1989 revenues (Source: The Yankee Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (84%); LMT (NYSE) (83%); COP (NYSE) (81%); MEL (LSE) (66%); 6503 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS423620 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC APPLIANCE, TELEVISION & RADIO SET MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (84%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (83%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC CORP (66%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NITED STATES ECONOMY UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE i UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS C- UNITED STATES MERCHAN OIL SPILLS (89%); BULK SHIPPING (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (86%); SALES FIGURES (79%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); COAL MINING (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); LEGISLATION (63%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (61%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R HAROLD C SIMMONS (81%); 



361 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: Looking Into Accounting's Heart of Darkness

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
Chris Campos finds adventure in a retailer insisting he sells women's coats at full price in February. He can grow rhapsodic over learning of someone who can shamelessly bilk the boss's son. Somebody blows up a factory? Hold on, he'll be right there.
Mr. Campos sifts the fine grains of financial books and records. Calculator in hand, he attempts to gauge revenues that matter greatly for insurance claims or litigation. His job title is forensic accountant, a specialist sometimes known as an investigative auditor - Dick Tracy in a green eyeshade. He's the sort of person who, when a flood shutters an air-freshener factory for 17 days, can go in and deduce just how much air freshener business might have washed away.
To a growing extent, insurers and a wide assortment of companies are hiring accounting sleuths like the 60-year-old Mr. Campos, head of the New York-based firm of Campos & Stratis, to compute the probable magnitude of damages from a business loss or disruption. This dependance has transformed the specialty over the last two decades from a negligible and arcane art to a sizable and fast-growing field. Campos & Stratis, which does only forensic accounting (no tax returns, please) and is perhaps the largest practitioner, says its revenues have tripled in the last five years to about $15 million. 
There are no solid estimates of the total size of the forsenic accounting field, which is highly fragmented among innumerable local and regional practitioners and a sprinkling of national firms, though Mr. Campos figures it creeps into the hundreds of millions of dollars a year. ''Over the years, the insurance business has expanded and the litigation business has expanded,'' Mr. Campos said, ''and that has meant great growth in investigative accounting.''
Chris Campos, a florid man with a placatory and friendly way about him, describes the work as ''a lot of just plain old common sense.'' It also involves tedious paper shuffling and the habit of being vigilant about asking for every piece of paper that has numbers scribbled on it.
''We had a recent case of a fire at a retailer of women's coats,'' Mr. Campos said. ''It happened in February and the guy put in an insurance claim for the full value of the coats. He said they were all selling at list price. That was baloney. Here it is February, the coat season is almost over. Women are looking for clearance sales. You only needed common sense to get that claim down to a reasonable amount.''
Disasters inevitably bring a skein of work. Last year, Hurricane Hugo loaded up the office with a clutter of business interruption claims. Mr. Campos has recently been groping through the gritty details of a fire at a San Francisco hotel. Working on behalf of the hotel, he is seeking to quantify a damage claim against the makers of the carpeting, draperies and acoustical tile. The hotel contends that the fire spread more swiftly than it should have because the flammability of those products was far greater than the hotel had been led to believe.
The forensic firm was founded by Chris Campos in 1969 as a one-man operation. Soon after, Elia Stratis joined and the two presided over the company until Mr. Stratis was killed in the Pan Am plane that was blown up over Scotland in December 1988. Increased demand for the firm's services has led it to open other offices in 22 cities that employ 140 accountants. Its major national competitor is Matson, Driscoll & Damico, and it also comes up against Kinsell & Associates, Meaden & Moore and several local practitioners. The huge accounting firms like Arthur Andersen also do forensic work.
To do its snooping, Campos charges between $40 and $200 an hour, depending on the level of experience of the person handling the assignment. Some work is completed in days, while complex matters that go to court can plod on for years.
The cases that come cascading across the Campos desks bespeak the dark side of American life. ''We've got all sorts of stuff - blood, messy divorces, theft, you name it,'' said Mark Gallagher, the partner in charge of the Atlanta office. Blessed with a mind that makes connections, he likes to assign patterns to the behavior he notices, and he doesn't need very much behavior before he agrees on a pattern.
Leading up to the disclosure of one of his grand theories, Mr. Gallagher rattled off the case of the bumptious female thief. Hired to work in the payroll department of a Florida printing company run by the son of the owner, she started stealing by neglecting to pay employee withholding taxes to the Internal Revenue Service. She stole enough to buy a car. Then she began dating the owner's son. They decided to live together. She swiped her part of the downpayment on the condominium they bought. When the I.R.S. came looking for its money, the game was over. Mightily displeased, the father summarily dismissed the son, basing his action on the belief that anyone that idiotic was unsuited to run his business.
''This is all part of Gallagher's First Law of Evolutionary Development and the Effect of Ultraviolet Rays on the Sons of Owners of Businesses in Florida,'' Mr. Gallagher summed up. ''The law is that the sons of owners of businesses in Florida prove to be genetically deficient. It may apply elsewhere, too, but so far I've only spotted it in Florida.''
For whatever reason, Mr. Gallagher commonly finds himself steeped in compulsive theft. ''We had a run of people stealing from doctors,'' he said. ''Those doctors got banged pretty hard. Then there was a run on car dealerships. Then it was manufacturers. We have a rule of thumb. A woman usually steals from $25,000 to $125,000 before she's caught. A man usually steals $50,000 to in excess of $1 million before he's caught. I think this is because men tend to have access to more money. All this is the result of a totally unscientific survey made by me.'' When it comes to larceny, Campos & Stratis is hired by the company that got drained of its money or its insurer to determine the dimensions of the losses. This involves taxing one's eyesight by combing through a company's financial and bank records to penetrate the cover woven around the thief.
''The best case we had,'' Mr. Gallagher said, ''was this guy who worked in accounts payable at different manufacturing companies in Atlanta. He would set up a dummy company and send money to it. He got $15,000 to $30,000 from the first place he worked at. The second place he got $300,000 to $400,000. The third place he got like $300,000. When he went to a fourth place, that company actually called the third place for a reference on the guy. Unfortunately, it got his lover and, naturally, she gave him one whale of a reference. He got the fourth place for $600,000. But they also got him. His nickname, by the way, was Mack the Knife.''
Mr. Gallagher quivered with delight. ''Oh, everybody's getting ripped off,'' he said. ''Look at this message here. When I get off the phone, I've got to call a guy who got banged for $200,000.''
Law firms that work with forensic accountants say their contribution can be considerable. ''I've used Campos on some major cases, along with other firms, and in some matters what they come up with is the whole case,'' said Larry Zelle, a partner in the Minneapolis law firm of Zelle & Larson.
Nevertheless, the work, like most everything in the accounting world, tends to have subjective underpinnings. In many disputes, forensic accountants work both sides of a case. Even though he stares at the very same information, a forensic accountant hired by a plaintiff will invariably produce numbers starkly different from those compiled by a forensic accountant retained by the defendant, in the way that psychiatrists testifying in trials tend to dance nimbly apart when it comes to whether a defendant is mad. The reason is partly because the work is rooted in hypothetical projections but also because motivations can inflate or deflate numbers. ''You would hope that the measurements would be the same,'' Mr. Campos said. ''In the real world they aren't because one person is always a little more zealous than the other.''
He mentioned a current case involving a hotel fire in which Campos, working for the hotel, concluded that business during the time the hotel was shut down would have grown 4.5 percent. The forensic accountant hired by the insurer decided business would have dropped by 7.5 percent. ''So we're 12 percentage points apart,'' Mr. Campos said. ''These sort of differences are typical. Usually there's a settlement somewhere in between.''
Forensic accountants are also commonly used in contentious divorces to ferret out ''hidden assets'' of spouses. Campos & Stratis, though, pursues only a sprinkling of such cases, preferring to confine itself to business conflicts.
Various authors, actors and inventors retain Campos & Stratis when they suspect they have been shortchanged on their royalties. Judith Spry, based in the Chicago office, was recently hired by a woman who had devised a board game and felt her payments had been too low. Sure enough, it turned out she was being paid according to sales of the games when her contract called for her to be compensated according to the number of games produced. She picked up an additional $20,000.
Some matters that come before the Campos sleuths appear rudimentary once information is sifted through. Jeff Baliban, a partner in the Dallas office, recently was involved in the case of the aching pipe salesman. He drove around from account to account selling plastic pipe. When he slipped while shopping for groceries at a supermarket, he claimed he damaged his back so badly that he was unable to sit in his car as much as usual and thus his business diminished. He'd forget all that, though, with a $150,000 check from the supermarket.
Mr. Baliban plotted his sales alongside his gasoline receipts. Sure enough, his sales did drop appreciably within months of his accident. Nevertheless, his gasoline expenditures remained pretty much unchanged. Further inquiry found that not long before his fall one of his major pipe suppliers had cut him off. The case was thrown out.
''It was a nice try,'' Mr. Baliban said. ''But no dough.''
 
 
 
TERRORISTS OR ARSONISTS?
For Campos & Stratis, one of the most ambitious forensic investigations involved the Sponge Rubber Products plant in Shelton, Conn. In March 1975, the plant was blown up and turned into a fire-blackened ruin by armed men hinting a connection with the radical group the Weathermen.
Sponge Rubber filed a whopping $62.6 million insurance claim. After an investigation by the F.B.I. and the police, however, arson charges were lodged against the owner of the plant and a band of men said to have carried out the firebombing. The owner was accused of directing the others to burn the plant for the insurance.
To see if economics might have made arson a motive, the plant's insurer hired Campos to analyze the financial state of the rubber factory.
Campos also tried to trace any money to the accused arsonists and did link payments from the company to a self-described clairvoyant minister who served as a spiritual adviser to the plant's owner.
Though the owner was ultimately acquitted, the psychic minister and his team were convicted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Forensic auditor Chris Campos, of Campos & Stratis. (The New York Times/Neal Boenzi)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CAMPOS & STRATIS (74%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS INTERRUPTION INSURANCE (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); FORENSICS (75%); LITIGATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; CAMPOS, CHRIS CHRIS CAMPOS (95%); 



362 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: All About/Texas Real Estate;
A Glut of Office Space Turns Enticing

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Texas real estate people, dazed after the debacle of the 1980's, are now daring to brag of a rebound. The office market in the Northeast came back, so why not Texas, they ask. ''I really believe that great fortunes will be made over the next decade in Texas real estate to rival when Olympia & York made their big hit in New York in the 1970's,'' said Charles G. Dannis, president of Crosson Dannis Inc., a Dallas real estate appraiser.
Many large investors are in fact betting on Texas as Dallas and Houston, its largest cities, begin to fill the acres of office space built in the early 80's. Only a few years ago, desperate developers offered months of free rent. Now, the freebies are gone, vacancies are down, rents are up and buyers want in while buildings are still relatively cheap.
Texas real estate sank so deep that bargain hunters plumbing the bottom still need long lines. ''There is talk, there is activity, but we're still in a misunderstood market,'' said Roger Staubach, the former football star whose Dallas-based leasing company bears his name. ''We're in a healthy economy, but it was just so overbuilt that now it'll take years to absorb it.'' 
 
 
Beyond the Binge
 
Institutional Investors Return to the Fold
Institutional investors like the Teachers Insurance Annuity Association, a New York pension fund, are gaining confidence that their returns will not be jeopardized by another binge of overbuilding. The collapse of many Texas banks and savings and loans has virtually cut off credit to speculative builders. The Chubb Corporation bought the First Interstate tower, one of Dallas's premiere office buildings, earlier this month. It intends to build another tower nearby.
Instead of being ashamed of their office gluts, Dallas and Houston boast of having some of the least expensive big-city buildings in the nation. ''The horrendous overbuilding is coming back to be more of a positive than a negative,'' said William Bugg, the South-Central director for Cushman & Wakefield, a national real estate brokerage. ''Now they can be more competitive in offering space than other cities.
A 1989 survey by Cushman & Wakefield indicates that chief executives around the country take these claims seriously. For the second consecutive year, the executives named the Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston areas as the most likely to show improving business conditions over the coming year. San Antonio came in third. Dallas has regained all the jobs it lost in the economic downturn and, according to a Salomon Brothers real estate report, could grow faster than the nation, adding as many as 35,000 to 40,000 jobs annually. Houston is also adding jobs as its petrochemical business booms.
 
 
Lone Star Attractions
 
The Corporate Yen for Wide Open Spaces
The Dallas area is no longer the domain of the wildcat developers who, with nearly unlimited financing from savings and loans, compounded the glut of office space as they spoke of how the local economy was too diversified to suffer. Now, says the Salomon Brothers report, Dallas is one of the nation's largest cities with no major speculative office buildings under construction.
Any projects underway in Dallas today are being built by their future users. Dallas's low costs have attracted major corporations trying to cut their own expenses. Large, readily available tracts of land, low living costs and building costs and modern infrastructure have drawn giants like J. C. Penney, GTE, MCI Communications and Exxon to move in their offices and even headquarters. Many are choosing the suburbs. Exxon is moving its headquarters and GTE is bringing about 4,000 employees to Las Colinas, a huge development between downtown Dallas and the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
The office vacancy rate has fallen steadily for three years, from about 33 percent to 26.9 percent, according to the Office Network, a real estate market research association. The cost of leasing prime space has been rising. Las Colinas now charges $13 to $16 a square foot per month, up 20 percent from only two years ago. In Plano, a northern suburb, the best office space costs $11 to $13 per square foot. In midtown Manhattan, which Exxon is leaving, office leases run about $40. Buyers of Dallas buildings often come from other states, mainly New York, but also from Canada and Europe. Sales are rising. Marcus & Millichap, a regional real estate broker, found that investors purchased 209 office, retail, industrial and apartment properties in Dallas County in 1989, compared with 146 in 1988 and 142 in 1987.
Still, Mr. Staubach warns that Dallas can't count on the same good fortune as New York. ''There are a lot of great opportunities here, but we have a lot of land here and if you get supply and demand out of whack you can get into trouble,'' he said. ''I don't think its going to be as dramatic as New York's turnaround in the late 1970's, but you will find a lot of great opportunities to invest.''
 
 
Houston's Rebound
 
The Best Little Mergers in Texas
Houston became the nationally recognized home of the empty, unfinished, see-through office building after oil prices plunged and its economy collapsed. Now, as the energy companies recover, the city is adding jobs and filling some of its excess office space.
Even though Houston stopped building offices about five years ago, it had more space available at the end of 1989 than any cities except Los Angeles and New York. With a vacancy rate of 27.5 percent, Houston has 39.8 million square feet empty, the equivalent of almost 18 Empire State Buildings. But there were 42.9 million square feet vacant in 1988 and 47.1 million in 1987.
The improving market has been aided by the recent consolidation of the oil and gas companies concentrated in the city. International engineering companies, like Bechtel Group Inc. and the Fluor Corporation, also are expanding into Houston. Over the past two years, according to the Houston Chamber of Commerce, the area gained 110,000 jobs.
Institutional investors and foreigners are expected to keep pouring money into Houston because it still costs less to buy office space there than to build it. Last year, according to Coldwell Banker, the real estate brokerage, about ten percent of the city's 1,300 office buildings changed hands. Buyers, mostly from New York, Chicago and overseas, put up $1.37 billion for 129 Houston office buildings with 21.7 million square feet. Pension funds have been the biggest buyers. But the largest single deal was the $400 million purchase of the Houston Center office project by the JMB Realty Corporation of Chicago. Said Neil G. Bluhm, the president of JMB, ''The Houston market has turned around.''
 
 
 
THE TALLEST STORIES IN TEXAS
In Texas, the building boom may be dormant, but the announcement boom is roaring again. In Dallas and Houston, builders are buying land and proposing projects that, so far, exist only as press releases and architect's models.
In Houston, some projects announced years ago are going through a new stage of promotional recycling. Last month, the wealthy oilman George Mitchell announced plans for Texas's tallest building, on a block downtown now used for parking. The Woodlands Corporation, a unit of his Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation, bought the block for about $25 million. Mr. Mitchell wants to build as high as 82 stories, taking the state's high-rise title from the 75-story Texas Commerce tower down the street.
In the early 1980's, the Century Development Corporation also planned to build the state's tallest building, also 82 stories high, on the site. But Century's other investments included a Texas savings and loan that went into receivership. Century ended up in the hands of the Resolution Trust Corporation.
Mr. Mitchell, it appears, is undeterred. His company is willing to spend as much as $300 million to prove that Texas-sized building can again match Texas-sized boasts.

GRAPHIC: Photos Dallas is beginning to fill its acres of office space (The New York Times/Jarrold Cabluck); A resurgent energy industry is aiding Houston's rebirth. (The New York Times/F. Carter Smith); graphs: office space in Houston and Dallas, indicating added space, absorption of existing and added space, and vacant space, 1983-89 (Sources: Cushman & Wakefield: The Office Network)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (66%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING; INDUSTRY PROFILES OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); LEASING INDUSTRY (66%); SAVINGS & LOANS (64%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (63%); JOB CREATION (62%); PETROCHEMICALS (50%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 



363 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
Little Help From the Group of Seven

 BODY:
After the meeting in Paris a week ago of the finance ministers of the Group of Seven industrialized nations, central banks in Japan, the United States and Europe sold dollars to support the weak Japanese yen. But the intervention had little impact because the Group of Seven seemed only lukewarm in its concern. By week's end, the dollar had risen against the yen and fallen against the West German mark.
It was thin trading before the Passover and Easter holidays and unfounded rumors that the credit rating of a money-center bank in New York would be lowered that helped pull the dollar down against the mark. If the dollar does not rally in trading this week, it could be pushed toward its lows of the year, just below 1.66 marks to the dollar. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	158.70	157.65	132.05	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6722	1.6950	1.86753	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1645	1.1640	1.1861	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.6370	1.6425	1.7055	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$375.25	$380.50	$385.00	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currecny: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); GROUP OF SEVEN (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES; EUROPE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; FINANCES US DOLLAR (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (73%); BRITISH POUND (70%); PASSOVER (70%); EASTER SEASON (56%); 



364 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Europe's Hot Place to Bet on Stocks

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
First it was Austria and then West Germany. Norway got some notice. Now it's springtime in Paris.
The Paris Bourse is the hot market of the moment, lifted to record highs by foreign investors looking for a new place to bet their money. In the last six trading days the CAC-40 has set five new highs, ending the shortened Easter Week Thursday at 2116.66, up 17 percent since its 1990 low on Feb. 23. 
Japanese fleeing a devastated Tokyo market have been picking up CGE, Lafarge, Saint Gobain, Suez and other stocks in the CAC-40, one of the markets two main indexes. Investors who have taken profits in West Germany, as its market slipped in the last two weeks from its record highs, have also been buying up the French blue chips.
But the runup has been so quick that the caution light is flashing. Investors with nice gains should be looking for profits. So those who missed the rally should wait until the market consolidates and retreats.
''I would tend to think it went too quickly,'' said Pascal Viorery of Bertrand Michel Securities Inc. in New York, a firm specializing in French equities.
''We think the potential is for another 5 percent from the present level,'' added Ricaldo Zavala, president of the international department at Magnin S.A. in Paris. ''But people with no position should wait for a setback.''
The French market had been poised for a rally, although it was down as much 10 percent for the year in February. A successful economic program, including lower wage settlements and a tough interest-rate policy, has been holding inflation at around 3 percent. More important, it has all but eliminated the inflation differential between France and West Germany, which had been as high as 4 percentage points. Economic growth this year is expected to be in the 3-percent range, and the franc, recently one of Europe's soft currencies, is challenging the mark in the European Monetary System.
But it was not until spring, when the West German and Austrian markets became too expensive, that investors began to take more notice of France's good economic numbers. The Bank of France also helped with a quarter-point cut in its key interest rate in the first week of April.
But this means the runup could be fragile, especially if there is another rush of euphoria when the two Germanys settle on the currency exchange rate for monetary union. Another rise in West German interest rates could also hurt because the French would likely follow to protect the franc.
''The reasons for the rise are O.K.,'' said Roelfien Kuypers of UBS Securities in New York. ''But they are not very strong. Many people are just tired of West Germany and wanted a new market.''
The CAC-40 blue chips get most of the attention from foreign investors, in part because they are the easiest to follow from afar. But because of that they are less of a bargain and harder to pick. Peugeot, for example, leaves analysts divided. Prudential-Bache has a ''buy'' recommendation on the stock, which closed at 919 francs Thursday, but said it would not chase it above the 830 level. UBS thinks it is still a good choice among European auto stocks, in part because the firm has downgraded Volkswagen to a ''sell'' due to its large exposure in Brazil. Economic reform there has brought the economy - and car sales - to a standstill, and should dent VW's earnings.
LVMH, the world's largest luxury-goods manufacturer that combines Luis Vuitton leather goods with Moet and Hennessey's wines and spirits, could be a high-priced bargain for a while, Mr. Zavala said. But Mr. Viorery thinks it is too speculative.
The company's earnings were up 46 percent in 1989, despite the bitter boardroom battle pitting Bernard Arnault, the chairman, against Henry Racamier, the head of the Louis Vuitton family. But that fight could reach a climax in two weeks, when a French court rules on contested 1987 warrants that helped Mr. Arnault gain control of LVMH.
A win for Mr. Arnault could lead to Mr. Racamier's removal. A loss could open another fight for control, pushing up the stock, which closed at 4,920 francs Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SGO (PAR) (58%); SGO (AMS) (58%); COD (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS423310 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK & WOOD PANEL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); NORWAY (90%); AUSTRIA (88%); JAPAN (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: EURONEXT PARIS SA (91%); CIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN SA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EASTER SEASON (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); BONDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BERNARD ARNAULT (67%); PASCAL VIORERY (55%); 



365 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Free Markets Can't Control Pollution

BYLINE: By BARRY COMMONER; Barry Commoner, director of the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems at Queens College, is author of ''Making Peace With the Planet.''

 BODY:
Over the last 20 years, the managers of American industry have gradually become accustomed to the demands of environmental regulation.
Apart from paperwork, the chief requirement has been the installation, wherever possible, of control devices that trap or destroy pollutants that would otherwise enter the environment: the catalytic converters attached to vehicle exhaust systems to remove carbon monoxide, or the scrubbers installed in power plants to trap sulfur dioxide. The Environmental Protection Agency has relied on such devices to achieve the reduction in pollution mandated by law. 
It is now evident that this ''command and control'' strategy has failed. For example, the E.P.A. expected the prescribed automobile exhaust controls to reduce annual carbon monoxide emissions by 80 percent and nitrogen oxides by 70 percent between 1975 and 1985. But in that period carbon monoxide emissions fell only 19 percent and nitrogen oxides increased 4 percent. The trends in other standard air pollutants are similar.
Yet, annual emissions of lead into the air have fallen 94 percent since 1975, suggesting that there are right and wrong ways of reducing pollution. The very few succeses - lead, DDT, PCB's, strontium 90 are examples - tell us what works. In each case, substantial improvement was achieved not by tacking a control device onto the process that generates the pollutant, but by eliminating the pollutant from the production process itself.
Pollution prevention calls for replacing the production technologies that now assault the environment with processes that are inherently free of pollutants. Such technologies, which are both ecologically and - in the long term - economically sound, exist. If farmers would shift to organic agriculture, the rising tide of agricultural chemicals that now pollute water supplies would be reversed, and food would be freed of pesticide-derived carcinogens. If automobiles were powered by stratified-charge engines, which sharply reduce nitrogen oxide emissions, the urban pall of photochemical smog and ozone - which is triggered by nitrogen oxides - would be lifted. If electricity was produced by photovoltaic cells, directly from sunlight, the air could be freed of the noxious pollutants generated by conventional power plants. If brewers were forbidden to put plastic nooses on six-packs of beer; if McDonalds rediscovered the paper plate; if the use of plastics was limited to those products for which they are essential, we could push back the petrochemical industry's toxic invasion of the environment.
Pollution prevention has been adopted as E.P.A. policy. An announcement in the Jan. 19, 1989, Federal Register acknowledges that the control strategy has failed, and asserts that ''today's notice commits E.P.A. to a preventive program to reduce or eliminate the generation of potentially harmful pollutants.'' But, despite this ringing declaration, the Bush Administration's environmental strategy is a cartoon version of what pollution prevention is not. In the Clean Air bill, which just passed the Senate, Mr. Bush calls for a market in pollutants that will allow some companies to sell their right to pollute and others to buy it. But a market cannot operate unless provided with what it is supposed to exchange - in this case, pollutants. Mr. Bush's proposal not only fails to prevent pollution, but actually requires it.
The conflict between pollution prevention and the free market raises a basic, long-avoided question: To what extent should the choice of production technologies be governed - as it is now - by private, generally short-term, profit-maximizing responses to market forces, and to what extent by long-term social concerns like environmental quality? Our ability to resolve the environmental crisis depends on our willingness to debate and, before long, to answer this crucial question.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry Commoner (The New York Times/Greta Pratt); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EMISSIONS (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); CARBON MONOXIDE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SMOG (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (76%); PESTICIDES (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); CHEMICALS TRADE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (73%); TRENDS (73%); CARCINOGENS (72%); LEAD (72%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (71%); BREWERIES (70%); ORGANIC FOODS (69%); AGRICULTURE (64%); PETROCHEMICALS (63%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (50%); 

PERSON: COMMONER, BARRY



366 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: REDOING EUROPE;
Part of the Problem Is Too Many Solutions

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
THE end of the division of Europe and the waning of Soviet power have made the Western allies feel strangely insecure. Until a few months ago, the East-West confrontation insured order and stability. Now, with all the European pieces suddenly out of place, the allies are in a tizzy over how to reassemble them.
NATO is talking about assuming a new political role, the European Community is being invited to assume security responsibilities and the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe is being promoted as the embryo of a new pan-European organization. Washington, London, Paris and Bonn are all anxious for new structures. Yet to every new suggestion, there is also an objection.
Gradually, though, the right questions are being asked: What role will the United States play in Europe? Will NATO still be needed if the Soviet threat is perceived to disappear? Can the Warsaw Pact transform itself into a democratic alliance? Will the European Community become the new pillar of regional stability? 
The urgent need to shape the new Europe is also bringing a rush of high-level meetings. On Friday in Bermuda, President Bush met Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain and this week he meets President Francois Mitterrand of France in Florida. NATO foreign ministers are to meet in Brussels after Easter, while European Community leaders plan a special summit meeting in Dublin on April 28.
Yet with so many premises of the old order no longer valid, ranging from the division of Germany and Soviet control over Eastern Europe to United States domination of NATO, the West is still struggling to find ways of filling the vacuum. Having been caught off guard by the collapse of the Soviet empire, it seems like a nervous trapeze artist, reluctant to let go of the past.
''Historical change is happening in a way it was not meant to happen,'' said an American defense expert at NATO headquarters in Brussels. ''Instead of a slow, drawn-out process, it has happened precipitously. It's natural for people to want a return to order and predictability.''
 
'An Archaic Anachronism'
The 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization is understandably wary of proclaiming the end of the cold war. To do so would be to encourage already-inevitable military cuts and to question its very reason for existence. It still talks of Soviet military superiority and it has yet to recognize that last year's dispute about the modernization of short-range nuclear missiles is now irrelevant: stationed in West Germany, they are pointed at East Germany.
''I can well understand the depression with which the civil and military alliance officials must contemplate the prospect of perestroika within NATO,'' Sir Michael Howard, president of the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies, noted last month. ''But the fact must be faced that a structure created to meet the dangers of the 1950's is in serious danger of becoming an archaic anachronism.''
NATO still retains two essential functions. First of all, it guarantees that United States troops remain in Europe. Even France, which does not belong to the alliance's integrated military command, thinks this is desirable. American troop strength and defense spending in Europe are expected to fall sharply in the coming years, but the Bush Administration's European policy still revolves around NATO.
The alliance also helps anchor Germany to the West and, in a sense, temper its new power. The allies rejected Moscow's earlier call for German neutrality and, last week, dismissed its new idea of German membership in both NATO and the Warsaw Pact. Today, many European countries see ''control'' of Germany as one of NATO's new functions. Britain even thinks German unification is reason enough for France to return to full membership in the alliance.
Aware that it must redefine itself, the alliance is already contemplating a new political role, not only in such logical areas as disarmament in the conventional arms talks in Vienna, but also on such broader questions as drugs, terrorism, economic stability and environmental protection. And when the terms of German unification are worked out in the so-called Two-Plus-Four talks, involving the two Germanys plus the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and France, NATO wants the last word.
But while 11 of the 12 members of the European Community are also members of NATO, the two groups are quietly competing for leadership. Convinced that its economic success helped inspire the revolution in Eastern Europe, the community believes it should serve as the pivot of the new Europe. It has not, however, opened its doors to the emerging democracies, offering association agreements and economic assistance rather than the chance to join their exclusive club.
An old idea that the community assume a security role has also resurfaced here. President Mitterrand has spoken of the need for ''a European axis to defense.'' Lord Carrington of Britain, a former NATO secretary-general, has suggested the community look after its own defense. Several governments favor strengthening the Western European Union, a long-dormant nine-nation alliance. Others propose creation of a European caucus within NATO.
The unspoken focus of this debate is whether the United States should play a smaller - or at least a different - role in Europe. European governments still want the protection of Washington's defense shield. But while in the past, they accepted the United States as the dominant European power, today they want to be treated more as equals.
 
Shifting Loyalties
On political questions, major European governments no longer tolerate the notion of Washington and Moscow deciding their future without them. And in economic matters, the community, which is destined to become a single market of 320 million people with a $4.3 trillion gross product after 1992, no longer feels dominated by the United States and Japan. But the changing trans-Atlantic relationship is also bringing complications: London and Paris are none too pleased to see Washington treating Bonn (or soon Berlin) as its main European interlocutor.
Almost forgotten in recent weeks has been Eastern Europe. Because neither NATO nor the European Community has found a way of accommodating countries once held together by the Warsaw Pact and the economic pact known as Comecon, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe has emerged from anonymity. Moscow suddenly imagines it becoming a European umbrella organization, Paris sees it as a counterbalance to NATO, and London hopes it might slow the community's own march toward political union.
The United States, however, is skeptical. President Bush has agreed to attend a summit meeting of the security conference this fall if a conventional arms reduction treaty is ready for signature, but American officials believe the group is too large a forum to play a security role in Europe. And, while the organization has promoted human rights, it has neither a charter nor a headquarters. In its present form at least, it seems poorly equipped to deal with the problems that may emerge in the new Europe, above all borders and nationalities.
Having seen its principal strategic objectives achieved on the streets of Leipzig and Prague rather than in the negotiating rooms of Vienna and Geneva, the alliance is now swimming in plans and blueprints that promise stability. ''But the future still looks foggy,'' said an American defense expert at NATO headquarters in Brussels. ''There has been this tremendous historical earthquake and it still hasn't been absorbed properly.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, WEST; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



367 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Struggles Over The Ancient Trees Shift to British Columbia

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: VICTORIA, British Columbia

 BODY:
THE biggest trees in Canada, some more than 300 feet high, cling to the spongy depths of the forest floor in the Carmanah Valley just north of here. They were ignored for centuries, but now the Sitka spruce in the isolated basin are being treated like the last bison herds of the West.
As on the United States side of the border, all but a handful of the valleys here in North America's only temperate rain forest have lost their original tree cover to the advance of loggers. Until recently, the fight over the swath of ancient evergreens hugging the Pacific had been fought mainly in Washington and Oregon. But the battle has moved north. 
As massive logging at an ever faster pace has cut up the Canadian domain of thousand-year-old cedars and towering firs, British Columbia has been accused of waste and hypocrisy. Hundreds of thousands of acres of the old-growth forests have never been replanted, which has prompted some forest ecologists to label British Columbia ''the Brazil of the north.''
In the United States, a Federal panel recommended last week that up to 2.5 million acres of national forest land in Washington, Oregon and California be off limits to logging. Technically, the recommendation was part of an assessment of the effect of logging on the spotted owl, which requires extensive old-growth habitat. But in Canada, the battle is just beginning. ''I tell my guys if they see a spotted owl to shoot it,'' said Jack Munro, Canadian president of the International Woodworkers of America, which represents 50,000 loggers.
On Tuesday, after years of protests by environmentalists and threats by mill owners to shut down plants if tree-cutting is slowed, the British Columbia government of Premier William Vander Zalm decided to allow logging in half the Carmanah Valley, while setting aside the other half as a park.
The land is publicly owned, but logging rights were sold long ago. In making the decision, government officials lashed out at critics, some from as far away as New Zealand and England, who had urged preservation of what is left of Canada's once-vast rain forest.
In British Columbia, timber companies cut nearly 600,000 acres last year, more than was logged in all the national forests of the United States. Nowhere have the woods been so depleted as on Vancouver Island, where miles appear barren, a stumpland where 250-foot-high trees used to stand.
The Carmanah Valley, a relatively small 16,500-acre breach in the west side of Vancouver Island, has become the symbol of resistance to the oldest and most dominant industry in western Canada. Preserving even half the valley, which holds the world's biggest spruce trees, would cost several hundred jobs, industry officials say.
But even some loggers, alarmed by a loss of both trees and jobs, say they are outraged by the overall pace of tree-cutting in the province.
''The world is going to need our wood, and we just aren't managing it properly,'' said Mr. Munro of the loggers union. ''Most of the old-growth trees have been cut from the states, so now the pressure is on us.''
British Columbia's economy is booming, creating nearly half of all the new jobs in Canada last year, and polls show a majority of the province's 3 million people want new restrictions on logging.
''We're witnessing a very radical change in the way the public views forest management,'' said John Cuthbert, the chief forester for British Columbia.
''In the good old days, there was lots of room to operate,'' he said. ''The province was still being developed. Now the timber supply has shrunk.''
What has changed, he said, is that the coastal evergreens are now considered to be part of a forest of global significance.
As North American political leaders have criticized tropical deforestation, the shearing of this continent's temperate rain forest has provoked cries of hypocrisy and shortsightedness. No matter how many trees are planted to replace them, foresters say it will be impossible to duplicate the network of redwoods, cedars, and sitka spruce that support one of the richest ecosystems on earth.
''They are cutting these coastal old-growth trees at a rate that simply cannot be sustained,'' said Dr. Peter Pearse, a forestry professor at the University of British Columbia who headed a royal commission on logging. ''This forest is unique in all the world, and it is diminishing in the same sense that tropical forests are disappearing.''
While the amount of trees cut here is a long way from the 25 million acres of tropical rain forest removed every year, environmentalists say that at that rate most of the remaining forest will be gone within a generation.
Mr. Cuthbert said that logging was excessive and careless up until the mid-1980's, but that reforms are under way. A new law has gone into effect requiring companies to reforest.
Recent debate has centered on the environmental value of the ancient forests. The trees wring moisture from the clouds and help keep the coastal climate cool.
When large sections are leveled and the debris is burned - a practice known as clear-cutting and slash-burning - it can cause flooding in the winter, air pollution in the summer, and may contribute to global warming, according to forestry experts.
Canadian logging practices are wide open. In the United States, for example, clear-cuts in the national forests are limited to 40 acres, but in Canada there is no such limit. Throughout this province, hundreds of square miles have been completely denuded, and are littered with rotting debris.
Peter McAllister, president of the Sierra Club of Western Canada, said Canadian timber companies are ''plundering the province'' in a race to cut wood while prices remain at an all-time high.
As in Washington and Oregon, much of these public lands are being leveled to feed a growing appetite for lumber in Japan. Environmental groups here, as well as in Washington and Oregon, say much of the ancient forest could be saved if overseas buyers were forced to get wood from second-growth tree farms rather than the centuries-old forest. But timber industry officials say that would require costly overhauling of mills and years of commitment to reforestation. As long as there are still several million acres of virgin forest in this province, there is little economic incentive to raise trees here as they do in eastern Canada, industry leaders say.
Critics say the provincial government's stand on the forest is contradictory. British Columbia has stepped up promotion for a booming tourist trade built on the natural wonders of the province, but at the same time it has allowed its forests to be cut as never before.
''I used to hear people in the states say that when their forests are cut, there will always be Canada,'' said Joe Foy, a leader of the conservation movement in British Columbia. ''But that isn't true. We aren't taking very good care of our piece of the globe. We have a small population, but the whole world grazes here. So it's important for us to preserve the blueprint and spare parts of the forests of the future.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); photo: A Sitka spruce forest, and a clear-cut section, on Vancouver Island (pg. 5); map of Vancouver Island showing location of Carmanah Valley (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTL (TSX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (91%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (91%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ENGLAND (76%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: CATALYST PAPER CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CARMANAH VALLEY (BRITISH COLUMBIA); BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA)

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); RAIN FORESTS (89%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (73%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY



368 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
The Revolution Is Today; Bureaucracy Is Forever

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
FOR any politician who cannot deliver on a promise, ''the bureaucracy'' is a wonderful scapegoat.
So guess who's to blame for Mikhail S. Gorbachev's failure to dampen a growing economic crisis in the Soviet Union?
In any nation, the bureaucracy shies away from anything resembling ''new thinking.'' In the Soviet Union, bureaucracy is a mire as immobilizing as mud in Siberia, and as eternal as the seasons. ''Chin,'' the system of infinite civil service gradations of rank inherited from the Mongols, and Gogol's caricature of Akaky Akakievich, the timid petty bureaucrat of ''The Overcoat'' whose life falls apart after a harsh word from a high official, would have been familiar to Lenin, who wrote in 1897: ''The complete lack of rights of the people in relation to government officials and the complete absence of control over the privileged bureaucracy correspond to the backwardness of Russia and to its absolutism.'' 
So after the revolution, did he get rid of it? Of course not. As he observed himself in 1921: ''The czar can be sent packing, the landed proprietors sent packing, the capitalists sent packing. That we did. But bureaucratism cannot be 'sent packing' from a peasant country, cannot be 'swept from the face of the earth.' One can only reduce it by slow, stubborn effort.''
Seventy years of communism in the Soviet Union brought a vast bureaucracy of an estimated 18 million people. (By contrast, the United States had 4,194,436 Federal employees at the beginning of this year, plus more millions in state and local bureaucracies.) Mr. Gorbachev sometimes sounds as if he would like some of the capitalists and the landed proprietors Lenin sent packing to come back, to try to salvage something from the ruins.
Yesterday, he and other Soviet leaders met to decide on economic measures that are expected to encourage private enterprise, set up a national banking system along Western lines to finance it, and start eliminating some of the millions of ways in which Soviet bureaucrats interfere with market mechanisms - by telling enterprises how much of everything from pins to power plants to produce and how much to charge for them.
Mr. Gorbachev said last week that he was ready to use his sweeping new executive powers to speed the latest package, hoping to spare it the fate of the ones he introduced in 1985 - the bureaucracy just ignored them.
 
Lining Up to Fill Out Forms
How is that possible? Imagine a country where practically everything requires filling out forms and waiting in line. Imagine a place where buying an airplane ticket or changing money for a trip abroad involves as much inconvenience and frustration for a Soviet citizen as going to the Department of Motor Vehicles for a new driver's license does for a New Yorker, where getting permission to live in an apartment in Moscow is as complicated as getting approval to build a modern extension on a landmarked building in Brooklyn Heights.
The bureaucrats in charge of the coal and oil industries, of course, do not have to sweat in the mines or freeze in the Siberian oilfields; they sit in offices and wear suits and ties. But many would not know how to help economic reform even if they wanted to. Gavriil K. Popov, a radical economist in Moscow, said miners who were on strike last year only wanted the right to market for themselves any coal they produced above what they had to give to the state ministry, but the bureaucrats would not give in.
There are so many rules and regulations that often the only way to get anything done is to quietly bribe those who enforce them. But there are no guarantees. Even for the initiated Western businesses, there are plenty of pitfalls. Stockmann's, a Helsinki department store that has been shipping orders to the Western community in Moscow for decades, tried to take advantage of new rules for joint ventures with Soviet cooperatives last year. It opened a small food store in Moscow, and for awhile it did a booming business. Now its shelves are empty, all because of red tape.
 
Limited Benefits
Finance Ministry bureaucrats wrote its charter under a Council of Ministers regulation that says joint ventures can import products only for their own needs, according to the new Soviet business weekly Commersant. Customs officials ''discovered'' this in March, and began turning back Stockmann's trucks.
In 1986, at the end of Mr. Gorbachev's first year, there were 55 Soviet Government ministries and 23 state committees equivalent to ministries: ministries for defense, military production, internal affairs, health, justice, the merchant marine, light industry, heavy industry, electricity and electrification, metallurgy, chemicals, finance, trade, communications, fisheries and production of chemical fertilizer, committees for state security, state planning, prices, labor, television and radio, and forestry - to name only a few.
Now there are only 37 ministries and 19 state committees. That does not mean all the old ones went away - just that they were merged or their functions devolved to the duplicate bureaucracies in the 15 constituent Soviet republics.
But bureaucracies have a way of sprouting again, like weeds. Khrushchev had reduced the number of ministries to 19 in 1958; by 1978, in Leonid I. Brezhnev's time, what the Soviet historian Yuri S. Borisov has dubbed ''the golden age of the bureaucracy,'' 62 ministries were flourishing again.
For Soviet bureaucrats, as for their counterparts around the world, survival and self-interest are often more important than the public welfare. While the average Soviet monthly wage was 220 rubles last year -about $360 - Valentin S. Pavlov, the Finance Minister, told the Supreme Soviet indignantly last December that some high-ranking functionaries were taking advantage of consolidation to raise their own salaries - to 1,500 rubles a month for the president of the urban planning association of the Ministry of Power and Electricity, for example, 1,400 for his general director and 500 for his driver. At the official rate of exchange (set by bureaucrats), 1,500 rubles is $2,475. Yuri A. Tyunkov, a spokesman for the Soviet Council of Ministers, said the Prime Minister gets only 1,200 rubles a month.
That the growth of a bureaucracy that planned every detail of the economy would eventually be a paralyzing dead weight on initiative should have come as no surprise to any student of Weber, Marx, or Engels. Now Mr. Gorbachev wants to shift to a market economy regulated to prevent the excesses of 19th century capitalism, the only version most Russians still have in their blood. But this, too, could become a bureaucratic nightmare.
Leonid I. Abalkin, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of drafting the new program of change, said it would take even more bureaucrats to supervise the regulated market economy than it did to run the old one.
But the United States, with its market economy, had more bureaucrats in the Federal Department of Agriculture (110,615), he said, than the Soviet Union had in its state Commission on Procurement and Food, and the same was true in other areas. In the Soviet Union, he said, ''the idea of a vast bureaucracy is a myth.'' One wonders what Mr. Gorbachev would say about that.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; WHITNEY, CRAIG R MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (78%); 



369 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Japan Begins to Hear the Market's Message

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
A SENIOR official at the Bank of Japan recently took a reporter aside, deeply concerned by articles saying Japan's Government bureaucrats had lost control over Tokyo's gyrating financial markets.
''In a sense, we do have less control over these markets than we did before,'' the official conceded, then added, ''But you should remember that we still have control over the economy, and that is what matters.''
His remark contained an assumption that, until recently, went largely unchallenged here - that the financial markets were something of a sideshow to what is still referred to as the ''real'' economy, and could be managed when necessary.
With its long history of free-market economics, the United States has generally accepted the opposite view, that the financial markets are a means by which economic influences are transmitted to corporations, and that responding to those messages makes companies stronger. 
By contrast, distrust of market forces as causing ''confusion'' and ''too much competition'' has been an article of faith in the Japanese economic canon, in which the Government is expected to ''guide'' affairs. Emphasizing finance and trading stocks has generally been regarded as a pasttime for speculators, a pejorative label here.
But over the past three months, Japan's markets have suffered their worst volatility in decades and have defied Government attempts to stabilize them, shattering the old view of who runs things. The thought that those market influences can no longer be so easily tamed has proven deeply unsettling.
Nearly every day, the central bank governor or the Finance Minister have tried to soothe frayed nerves by declaring that the frighteningly steep dives in stock prices and in the value of the yen have been the work of speculators out for personal gain, not because anything was wrong with the economy or their management of it. But hardly anyone believes that any longer.
Worse, when the Government has acted, by intervening in the market or raising interest rates to try to stabilize the yen, the markets lurched down even further. The lesson for Japanese corporations has been that they are better off following fluctuations of share prices or interest rates than bureaucratic pronouncements - though the Government still has immense power in many ways. ''This is reality,'' said Richard Koo, a senior economist at the Nomura Research Institute. ''It is not just financial people playing games. What is happening in the markets is going to have some bite.''
Yoshio Suzuki, deputy chairman of the Nomura Research Institute and a former executive director at the Bank of Japan, cited four ways in which the turbulence in the markets is being transmitted to the Japanese economy: a ''negative wealth effect,'' in which individual stock owners, many of them extrememly wealthy on paper because of the stock boom earlier, cut back on their spending; reductions in plans by corporations to raise capital by selling securities, which limits their overall spending plans; problems for heavily indebted companies, whose borrowing costs have soared; and the psychological impact on people, making them more cautious in their business decisions and spending habits.
So far, the effect on the economy has not been large because five boom years have left most companies vigorous. Economists have lowered their growth rate predictions to slightly less than 4 percent, from earlier projections of 4.5 percent. ''But if this turmoil continues,'' said Mr. Suzuki, ''the impact will certainly become larger, and we may face a recession next year.''
Japan has become more open to influence from other markets in part because the Government has liberalized regulations. Money flows more freely than ever from Tokyo to New York or London, and back, as investors search the globe for the best returns. These incoming and outgoing tides of money can lift or swamp markets.
 
Overseas Influences
Setting off the recent problems here was a jump in interest rates overseas, particularly in West Germany, which caused the yen to tumble late last year and accelerate this year. To defend the currency, the Bank of Japan raised interest rates, which have more than doubled since last summer. Those higher rates, in turn, helped push the stock market off a cliff: it has plunged more than 20 percent since the beginning of the year.
Another blow came in Paris last weekend, when Japan was rebuffed by the finance ministers of the other leading industrialized nations in its call for concerted action to try to tame the yen. The message delivered was that the Japanese Government was going to have to heed the market and not try to manage it, meaning it may need to raise interest rates higher if the yen falls further.
''In the past, when money was tight, like it has gotten now, it caused credit rationing,'' where banks, with plenty of Government guidance, decreed which companies would obtain capital, said Mr. Suzuki. ''Today, the main impact of tight money is through changes in the prices of stocks,'' which gives healthier companies an advantage in competing for capital. ''That is why Japanese companies and the economy will only become more sensitive to the markets,'' he said. And that, he insisted, is a good thing, since it will make Japanese companies even more efficient. The potentially good news for American companies is that it will put them on a more equal footing with their Japanese competitors.
''The old notion of de-coupling is dying,'' said Kenneth Courtis, an economist here for Deutsche Bank. ''It will be increasingly dangerous for people to hold this idea that the markets are unimportant.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the floor of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (Reuters); graph of daily close of Nikkei 225 stock index, Oct. 4, 1989-April 2, 1990 (Source: Datastream; Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 4307 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); JAPANESE YEN (67%); BONDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



370 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
So Much for Assumptions About Immigrants and Jobs

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
MOST Americans, it is safe to say, would be worse off without all the immigrants who iron their shirts, grill their hamburgers and staff their hospitals.
The catch, many suspect, is that immigrants compete with the least-skilled native-born workers, taking away their jobs or lowering their wages. That is why organized labor has long fought for tougher controls on immigration - and why House Democrats want to force employers to pay premium wages to foreign workers they sponsor under the liberalized immigration rules now being debated in Congress.
But new research suggests that immigrants are a virtually unmixed blessing. It shows that recent arrivals - legal and illegal - have had slight impact on the earnings or employment prospects of American residents. Immigrants, it seems, are either doing jobs that the American-born do not want, or they are filling slots in an economy with a nearly insatiable hunger for willing workers. 
 
Comfort to Unions
During the 1980's, legal immigration averaged about 575,000 annually. This figure is double the rate of the mid-1960's, with the increase coming from poor countries in Latin America, Asia and the Caribbean. Yet annual immigration remains well below the million-plus surges after the turn of the century, when the economy was much smaller.
This comparison, however, is of modest comfort to unions that see immigrants as direct competitors for Americans' jobs - particularly those at the low end of the wage scale. Organized labor strongly backed efforts to curb illegal immigration in the 1980's. And it is behind efforts in the House to link any increase in legal entry to rules requiring employers to pay immigrant workers at least 105 percent of ''prevailing wages,'' for which the union scale typically figures as a floor.
Economists have generally assumed that labor perceived its interests correctly, says George Borjas, an economist at the University of California at Santa Barbara and the author of ''Friends or Strangers, The Impact of Immigrants on the U.S. Economy'' (Basic Books, 1990). Although unskilled immigrants who pick vegetables or make beds undoubtedly enhance the living standards of middle- and upper-income Americans, the working poor have more basic concerns than cheap tomatoes or reliable housekeepers. Bring in, say, 50,000 immigrants from Mexico eager to work on California farms, and one would expect to see wages fall and unemployment rise.
Yet a variety of econometric studies have failed to prove this, Professor Borjas said. Most of the studies draw on comparisons between cities with varying proportions of immigrants in the labor force. After adjusting for other factors that would affect relative wages - housing costs, for example - the researchers discovered that differences in immigrant populations accounted for only trivial differences in labor-market conditions.
These numbers do not, of course, include estimates of illegal immigration; no estimates of illegal populations are reliable.
But since illegal immigrants almost certainly congregate in the same cities as legal immigrants the results of the econometric studies are still valid. Indeed, the results are all the more dramatic; large populations of illegal immigrants apparently do not affect wages or employment opportunities.
 
Closing a Loophole
A 10 percent increase in immigrant labor, Professor Borjas estimated, reduces the average wage of natives by a mere 0.2 percent. There is no observed effect whatsoever on overall unemployment rates. Employment opportunities apparently expand rapidly enough to absorb new arrivals with hardly a blip.
Such ''cross-section'' snapshots comparing labor markets at a single moment do leave a conceptual loophole wide enough to accommodate the skeptics.
The data, argues Richard Freeman, a labor economist at Harvard University, are also consistent with the possibility that the continuing flow of immigrants deters native Americans from moving to where the better jobs are. If, for example, Mexicans and Chinese immigrants had not arrived to work in Los Angeles's garment industry, the unemployed Americans now languishing in the economic backwaters of Mississipi and Louisiana might have made the trek West.
One study just published, however, appears to close this loophole. During the Mariel boatlift of 1980, some 125,000 Cubans, half of whom had never attended high school, were dumped in Florida over a six-month period. Yet, ''nothing much seemed to happen to Miami, even to unskilled native blacks,'' said David Card, a labor economist at Princeton University. In spite of a 7 percent increase in the work force, wages rose slightly faster in Miami the following year than in a control group consisting of four other Sunbelt cities. Unemployment rates among Miami Cubans did increase from 7.2 to 10.1 percent, but the burden was borne almost exclusively by the Mariel refugees themselves.
Econometricians are not about to lay to rest every objection to immigration. Indeed some, like Profesor Borjas, fear that less-skilled, less-educated immigrants from the Third World will remain cut off from greater American culture, raising the toll of poverty and racism.
But the conventional economic wisdom pitting American poor against the immigrant poor is crumbling. So too, perhaps, will the conventional political wisdom pitting labor against the outsiders.
 
A CENTURY OF NEWCOMERS
Immigrants in the United States, 1901-87.

 	 	 	 		How many arrived...	...and how the U.S. changed	 	 	 	 		Immigrants	Number of new	Percent of U.S.		admitted	immigrants admitted	population that		(in millions)	per 100 native births	is foreign born	 	 	 	 	1901-10	8.8	N/A	14.2%	1911-20	5.7	19.9	13.6 	1921-30	4.1	14.4	12.1 	1931-40	.5	2.2	10.1 	1941-50	1.0	3.3	8.2 	1951-60	2.5	6.2	6.0 	1961-70	3.3	8.5	5.0 	1971-80	4.5	13.5	5.5 	1981-87	4.1	15.8	6.0 	
 
(Source: ''Friends or Strangers'' by George J. Borjas (Basic Books, 1990))
 
FACES IN THE PICTURE
 
Average annual legal immigration from selected countries, in thousands. (Accurate figures on illegal immigration are not available. The best estimates suggest that illegal immigrants in the United States totalled 3-4 million in 1980.)

 	 	 	 		1951-60	1971-80	1981-86	 	 	 	 	Total	250	450	683*	 	 	 	 	Europe	 	 	 	 Italy	19	13	3 	 Britain	21	12	14 	 	 	 	 	Asia	 	 	 	 China	3	20	37 	 Korea	1	27	34 	 Philippines	2	36	46 	 	 	 	 	Americas	 	 	 	 Cuba	8	28	15 	 Dominican Republic	1	15	22 	 Mexico	32	64	67 	
 
* For the years 1981-1987
 
(Source: Census Bureau; ''Friends or Strangers'' by George J. Borjas (Basic Books, 1990))

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants at a Federal office in Los Angeles last year as the deadline for amnesty approached (Gamma-Liaison/John Barr); Graphics: A Century of Newcomers; Faces in the Picture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; HIRING AND PROMOTION IMMIGRATION (96%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); PREVAILING WAGES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (65%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BORJAS, GEORGE (PROF) GEORGE BORJAS (67%); 



371 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: The Prophet of Montana Once Played Ghana

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Readers might like to know that the scam career of Elizabeth Clare Prophet, now focused on Paradise Valley, Mont. (''Thousands Plan Life Below, After Doomsday,'' front page, March 15), once took her far, far away. In 1978, she, her daughters and a male companion, all dressed in gleaming white, arrived in the Republic of Ghana to lend support to the declining dictator, Gen. Kutu Acheampong.
The collapse of the national economy was threatening to end the general's reign, and he badly needed a miracle of the sort she specialized in. She arrived in great ceremony, and the state-owned press gave her continuous front-page coverage while she preached to the Ghanaians over and over about Acheampong's excellent leadership qualities. She even deified him. Acheampong, his army and the people of Ghana, she said, were a deliberate representation of the Trinity on Earth, with the general in the role of the Father.
The campaign was a total failure. Villagers and city folk alike were contemptuous of the whole sideshow. After a few weeks, Mrs. Prophet and her entourage left Ghana, taking with them, everyone assumed, a sizable portion of the country's small supply of foreign exchange.
A short time later, another preacher, a man named Morris Cerullo, came bearing a piece of the original cross and further nonsense about what a fine fellow Acheampong was. Mrs. Prophet was an impossible act to follow, however, and his pedestrian performance went almost unnoticed by a population preoccupied with trying to feed itself.
Within six months, Acheampong was deposed and the following year shot. Ghanaians, a people of most civilized sensibilities and little given to bloodshed, cheered.
 
REX E. MOSER
 Lawrenceville, N.J., March 20, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: GHANA (96%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); 

PERSON: PROPHET, ELIZABETH CLARE; MOSER, REX E KUTU ACHEAMPONG (92%); ELIZABETH CLARE PROPHET (92%); 



372 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
How to Desert A Friend

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
When you are deserting a friend, the first step is a little difficult. But pretty soon it gets easy.
What makes it hard in the beginning is that the friend doesn't seem to understand what is going on. He can't get it into his head that you are really walking out on him. 
The fellow comes up to you, at the start, with a big smile on his face. He says that he has a chance to fulfill the dream of his life, and that he knows you will give him a hand, because you have been promising him for years that you would. So would you just say a word to this new friend of yours who is kicking him around and blocking his way?
But things have changed. You have deals cooking with the new friend and you don't want him mad at you.
So you don't really answer, just mumble a few embarrassed words. But he keeps tugging at your sleeve, not understanding, and a crowd gathers.
Then you have to come out with it. You tell your friend he is living in the past, and what's more, getting in the way of the big deals by hanging around bringing up old promises.
You turn to everybody and say leave it to me: one of these days my new big friend won't be so tough on this old character and in the end it will be better for him, believe me. The crowd gets bored and everybody walks away.
Just the old friend is left, staring at your back, understanding the dream is ending.
Washington's decision to walk away from its Lithuanian friend does not mean merely a delay in creating an independent Lithuania. Washington wants us to believe that's all it means. But it really means our Government has adjusted its mind to an end of the dream.
The evidence is before us. President Bush tells Lithuanians and Lithuanian Americans to go along with Mikhail Gorbachev's idea of how secession ought to work.
First there is a referendum on independence, which Lithuania might reluctantly accept even though it considers itself already free. But then there are five years of negotiation.
After that, the dead end: any proposal for independence has to be approved by a two-thirds vote of the Soviet Congress of Deputies. Mr. Gorbachev can easily make sure that that will never happen.
The quarrel of Americans who believe in international decency should not be just with Mr. Gorbachev. Only the terminally naive believe that he will give up parts of the Soviet internal empire without a struggle.
The quarrel is with those Americans who would rather help Mr. Gorbachev keep every inch of the ragtag empire than stand by America's pledge, repeated for a half-century, to support Lithuanian freedom lost to Hitler and Stalin.
President Bush directed the walkout. But he is being supported by some of the specialists, journalists and ex-bureaucrats who interpret foreign policy to the public. Small countries, of course, can be annoying if you are thinking large global thoughts.
But underlying almost all the arguments in favor of the Bush decision to walk away from Lithuanian independence is a belief, frequently sincere, that otherwise Mr. Gorbachev might fall.
Sincere does not mean right. There is no proof that Mr. Gorbachev is being nasty about Lithuania only because nasty people made him do it. See above about terminal illnesses. But if Mr. Gorbachev really needs supine American acquiescence to his bullying of Lithuania to keep him in office, he will need more of the same for a long, long time.
Around the Soviet Union, other nationalities are demanding freedom. Mr. Gorbachev's economic policies are a mess, where they exist at all. His popularity is stronger abroad than at home. And there will always be the nasties lurking.
Sooner or later, if the United States is to resume having foreign policies independent of Moscow, it will have to let Mr. Gorbachev try his luck without us. How long will Washington fight to save every inch of the teetering Soviet Union for its terrified leaders?
Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Baker both seem surprised and are worried by Mr. Gorbachev's latest threat to Lithuania - retreat or face a blockade of power supplies. What did they expect? With the United States looking on, Moscow has been tightening the screws day by day.
But perhaps there is still time, if enough Americans insist, for the U.S. to speak out for freedom of action -for the Lithuanians and for ourselves.
It is harder to walk back to a deserted friend than walk away, but in the end the heart rests easier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LITHUANIA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); REFERENDUMS (65%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



373 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3802 words

HEADLINE: WHEN WILL THE BOOK BE DONE?

BYLINE: BY SUSAN SHEEHAN: Susan Sheehan is the author of ''Is There No Place on Earth For Me?'' which won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 1983.

 BODY:
I'M ALWAYS MAKING SUGGESTIONS to my husband that I later regret. On Friday afternoon, June 16, 1972, I telephoned Neil at the Washington bureau of The New York Times to ask him about the funeral he had attended at Arlington National Cemetery that morning. A week earlier, a good friend and influential source from his years as a correspondent in Vietnam, John Paul Vann, had been killed in a helicopter crash there. I listened for half an hour while Neil described the funeral in captivating detail and spoke emotionally about Vann, the civilian-soldier whose death had caught him by surprise, because Vann had spent 10 years in Vietnam beating the odds that claimed the lives of other, more cautious men. ''It sounds as if there's a book in Vann,'' I said, before we hung up. 
Vietnam was the story Neil could never quite get away from. United Press International had sent him there first in 1962 for two years, and then The Times had sent him back in 1965 for a third year. After being assigned to Washington in the fall of 1966, he had covered the Defense Department, which meant covering the Washington end of the war, and in 1971 had obtained the Pentagon Papers, the secret history of the conflict. In February 1972, Neil had published his first book, ''The Arnheiter Affair,'' about a bizarre naval drama that had occurred aboard the U.S.S. Vance, a destroyer escort on coastal patrol off South Vietnam. He had considered writing a memoir of the war for the past year, and had drafted a proposal. He had even given it a title, ''An End to Innocence.''
That night over dinner we talked about the funeral. Neil had been thinking about John Vann all day. Vann was a metaphorical figure through whom he could tell the story of the war in Vietnam. Within two months Neil had secured a two-year leave of absence from the paper and a contract from Random House for a 100,000-word biography of John Vann. He had flown off to Denver on June 29 to interview Vann's former wife, Mary Jane, and other members of the Vann family. By August, Neil was in Vietnam for three months to interview Vann's Vietnamese and American friends and associates who had fought his last battles with him. The manuscript was to be delivered in the summer of 1974.
I had ample time to regret my suggestion. ''A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam,'' all 360,000 words of it, was published in October 1988. By then, more than 16 years had elapsed since our fateful conversation.
LIFE SEEMED PROMISING IN THE summer of 1972. We were both 35. We lived with our daughters Maria, 5, and Catherine, 3, and a baby sitter in a house we'd bought in 1966 with a $35,000, 6 percent mortgage and considered ourselves well off. We had used Neil's $10,000 advance for ''The Arnheiter Affair'' as a down payment on a farm in West Virginia, and in 1973 started to build a log cabin in an apple orchard on our mountainous acres. It had taken Neil only three years to write ''The Arnheiter Affair,'' while holding a job; neither the anticipated time or word length of the Vann book seemed forbidding.
Nineteen-seventy-four was the worst year of our lives. Marcus Aurelius Arnheiter, the ex-captain of the U.S.S. Vance, had sued Neil, Random House and others for libel shortly after the book's publication. A suit had been expected, because Arnheiter had a record of suing and losing, but Neil, Random House and the publisher's lawyers could not have imagined the costs in money and misery of several libel suits that Arnheiter proceeded to file on this occasion. In late 1973, one of the lawyers directed Neil to write a memo cataloguing his entire research files. Neil spent most of 1974 writing a 343-page memorandum and organizing a 14-foot-high stack of book-research materials for the lawyers.
We had always been (Continued on Page 68) night owls. Neil's workday at The Times was from 11 A.M. to 8 P.M.; we usually went to bed at 2 A.M. After the memo writing began, Neil's bedtime advanced to 3 or 4 A.M. and gradually to 6 A.M. During the summer of 1974, Neil would stop at 6, have a hot bath and do exercises for a back problem, take 10 milligrams of Valium the doctor who was treating him for his back had prescribed, and try to go to sleep. The all-night memo writing would help win the Arnheiter lawsuits, but it was squandering the time and money that was supposed to be spent on the book. Wild with rage and frustration, Neil would take another five milligrams of Valium. Usually he fell asleep but sometimes he was so angry that after tossing and turning for hours he would get out of bed, mow the lawn or work in the garden to sweat out his rage in the sun, and go back to writing the memo. By the next morning, he would be able to sleep.
Neil finished the memo in November 1974. The cabin was virtually completed and he decided to go to West Virginia for a few days to relax before returning to the Vann book. He left for the farm in our car on Nov. 24. On the 25th, it snowed. As he was driving to a friend's office in nearby western Maryland to borrow a four-wheel-drive vehicle, a young man who liked to drive down the wrong side of the road drove his unregistered station wagon head-on into the car, breaking 10 of Neil's bones. In 1975, Neil was too weak to do much work. The book's original due date passed and he hadn't yet written a line.
Early 1976 would have been a logical point for Neil to abandon the Vann book. The Times couldn't continue to extend his leave of absence, but would have put him back on the payroll. Neil resigned from the paper. What kept him working on the book emotionally was the will to finish what he had begun. By temperament, he isn't a sprinter; he is (and in boarding school was) a long-distance runner. There is also a quasi-religious streak in Neil. He wanted to leave something meaningful behind - more than a reporter's memoir, more than a newspaperman's clip file. His goal was to write the book on the war in Vietnam.
Several foundation grants and fellowships made it possible for him to continue through the 1970's; the $45,000 of his $67,500 Random House advance to which he was entitled before completing the manuscript had been spent by 1975. He finished his opening section on the funeral in December 1976, got bogged down in a false start on several hundred pages of manuscript that followed, but caught himself and started again and had a narrative structure that was working by 1979, the year the Supreme Court brought an end to the tortuous lawsuits: the court let stand decisions against Arnheiter by the Federal appeals courts of New York and California. One last fellowship in 1979-1980 enabled Neil to complete three-fifths of the manuscript in the summer of 1981.
That would have been the end of the road, if William Shawn, then editor of The New Yorker, and Robert Loomis, Neil's editor at Random House, to whom Neil sent the manuscript, hadn't believed in what they read. Shawn said that he would publish 120,000 to 125,000 words of the book when it was done, and would advance us some money when we needed it. Random House renegotiated Neil's contract, raising the advance to $200,000, to include the long-gone $45,000.
Neil thought he would be done in a couple of years (the advance's last two payments were due upon completion of a satisfactory manuscript, in 1983), but he was wrong again - and again. He didn't type the final line until Aug. 6, 1986. Those last five years were progressively more exhausting. He hadn't had a real vacation since 1971. The concluding section of the book proved the longest and toughest to write. The physical consequences of the car accident exacted a progressively more painful toll - in addition to a pinched nerve that bothered his shoulder, Neil developed osteoarthritis in a knee that had been broken. The tension never let up. Not a week went by without someone asking if it wasn't much too late to be writing a book about Vietnam.
As it happened, the turning point in my writing life came the year after Neil started the Vann book. I had graduated from college in 1958, spent two months at an advertising agency, and then worked as an editorial researcher, or ''checker,'' for Esquire for a year and a half. In September 1960, I left Esquire to become a freelance writer, sold my first piece to The New Yorker two months later, became a staff writer for the magazine in 1961, and have been one ever since.
I met Neil in New York in September 1964, and flew off to Djakarta, where he had become a correspondent for The Times. We were married in March 1965. In August, we were apprised that our honeymoon was to be a year in Saigon, where I wrote my first book. ''Ten Vietnamese'' was published in March 1967, when Maria was 2 months old. I never stopped writing - I have no talent for leisure - and could always earn two or three times as much as a live-in baby sitter. Before Maria (and later Catherine) went to school, they commuted to New York with me from Washington. In the girls' early years I didn't have the concentration for long New Yorker pieces and instead wrote ''Talk of the Town'' stories and articles for other magazines.
By 1973, the girls were both in school. I wanted to get back to writing long New Yorker pieces and to writing another book. I mailed a letter to Alfred Knopf, the publisher, asking to write his biography. I was sure he would say no. I had met him once on an Esquire fact-checking mission and found him to be one of the surliest men I'd ever encountered, but he was a singular publisher.
Knopf said yes, and I signed a contract to write his biography in 1974. That summer, Catherine went to Spain with our baby sitter; Maria, then 7, and I moved into Alfred and Helen Knopf's house in Purchase, N.Y. While Maria went to a nearby day camp, I interviewed Alfred. That fall I spent two weeks in Austin, Tex. (Alfred had by then given most of his papers to the Humanities Research Center there), and in California, interviewing Alfred's friends, relatives and authors.
I stopped work in November 1974, after Neil's accident. In 1975, I resumed researching the Knopf biography. I spent the summers of 1975 and 1976 in Austin, reading Knopf's papers while Maria and Catherine went to day camp there, but my heart was no longer in the Knopf biography. I had been more content in the barrios of Puerto Rico and the slums of the Lower East Side and Brooklyn writing an article for The New Yorker about a welfare family than I was in the literary precincts of New York and New England doing Knopf interviews. I lacked enthusiasm for the unhappiness that had characterized so much of Alfred's life - his marriage to his first wife, their relationship with their son, with many of their employees, and with some of their authors. I was devoted to Helen Knopf, Alfred's second wife, and didn't want to write a book that would trouble her if I went to the heart of darkness.
In 1976, as our finances were getting dicey, I began to write a New Yorker series on a prisoner in a New York State maximum-security prison. In 1977, Neil earned $1,000; I had spent the Knopf advance. Writing long pieces on subjects like prison for The New Yorker paid well and I loved researching them.
Even so, there were lean months and years between 1976 and 1986. As one writer was later to describe our financial circumstances during that decade, ''The Sheehans were never food-stamp poor. They just never knew where their next dollar was coming from.'' I recently took out Neil's Day-Timers from 1972 to 1986, and reread a few pages at random, more than enough to bring back the horrors of the book-writing years.
The Day-Timers reveal that Neil was always tired. ''Today would have been more productive if I had had more energy,'' he wrote on one page. ''I kept falling asleep all evening,'' he observed several pages later. He was plagued by inadequate working quarters. The worst was a basement in the neighborhood, rented from a woman who sat on the floor above and tossed her yipping toy poodle a ball for hours on end. The Day-Timers show how discouraging illness was. Neil brought back a tapeworm from Vietnam, required a sinus operation, developed a nervous stomach that caused him to lose 15 pounds. I was prone to migraines and ulcers, and Neil had to take me to hospitals for kidney stones and several operations, including a parotid tumor that left my face frozen for two months. ''Susan and the girls deserve all my time, and more,'' he wrote, a day after visiting me in the hospital.
Writing was never easy. ''It is always so damned hard to get one of these sections moving. One starts and is satisfied with a start and then one sees that one has to work in more and so one goes back and does it over again.'' He urged himself to continue: ''Hustle, Sheehan.'' ''Stay with it.'' In 1961, when Neil was a Specialist 4 in the Army, a sergeant told him he was an alcoholic, and took him to a meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. Neil has never taken a drink since. Before he asked me to marry him he insisted on telling me he was an alcoholic and that he believed in the A.A. credo of praying each night for another 24 hours of sobriety. I sensed that the daily exhortations were a logical addition to the daily prayers for sobriety and helped him get the book written the only way it could have been done, a day at a time.
I also riffled through my own diaries. So many of the terse entries show how close to the edge I was. I railed against power failures that kept Neil from working. A basement flooding problem absorbed more time, and $12,000 we didn't have. Three teen-agers with an air-gun went on a Saturday night lark and shot out hundreds of car windows, including the windows of our car and truck: more time and money futilely lost. I was thankful for leap years - Feb. 29 was an extra writing day.
I occasionally asked Neil when he thought the book would be done. His answer (''I'm writing as fast as I can'') angered me, which angered him. ''I've resolved not to ask about the book's progress for six months,'' I noted in a diary. ''Asking only makes matters worse, it gets nothing done faster.''
AND SUDDENLY THE nightmare was over. In August 1986, there wasn't just a strong first sentence (''It was a funeral to which they all came''), there were two eloquent last lines. ''John Vann was not meant to flee to a ship at sea, and he did not miss his exit. He died believing he had won his war.'' True, there were 470,000 words in between, but it took Neil only a year to cut the manuscript to the 360,000 words considered the optimum length for this book. I promptly sold my Knopf research to another author for $31,000, the advance I'd received from the publisher, which I thereupon repaid. His agent auctioned the book for a substantial six-figure sum. I was jubilant to be free of it.
In the fall of 1987, Neil had time for major knee surgery, and Robert Loomis of Random House commuted from New York to Washington, working on the final text. Photographs were selected and laid out and maps chosen; source notes, acknowledgments, lists of interviews and documents, and a bibliography were word-processed.
The pace of life seemed to go from slow motion to fast forward, no doubt because so many good things started to happen after so many years of desert solitaire. The Book-of-the-Month Club made the book a full main selection. Random House set a first printing of 100,000. Robert Gottlieb, the new editor of The New Yorker, shared Shawn's enthusiasm (''the book of the decade,'' he called it), and excerpted it in four parts.
In the summer of 1988, Neil became the object of more attention from the press than he could ever have imagined during those long nights' journeys into day, when he sometimes finished one page, sometimes not. I was prepared. We had camped out in our 57-year-old house since we had bought it. The kitchen and the upstairs were beyond quick and affordable salvation but I gave to Goodwill Industries $900 worth of aged and tacky velvet sofas and chairs that we had bought from a paving contractor who was moving. We redecorated the living room. Interviewers were for the most part confined to my one-room stage set.
During the fall of 1988, the stage set was mine and the cat's. Catherine was a sophomore at Wellesley, Maria was working in New York, Neil was often on the road, peddling his book in Baltimore and Boston, Cleveland and Chicago, San Diego and San Francisco. In Washington, Random House gave a publication party at Germaine's, the city's best-known Vietnamese restaurant. In New York there were more parties, and a dinner at the Four Seasons, which was followed by a walk in the rain uptown toward my mother's apartment, where Catherine and Neil and I were staying. We bought the next day's New York Times at a newsstand at Third Avenue and 57th Street, a few blocks from the Four Seasons, and stood under the corner lamppost, raindrops and light beams misting down on the page, while Catherine read the review aloud to the last paragraph: ''Sheehan's skillful weaving of anecdote and history, of personal memoir and psychological profile give the book the sense of having been written by a novelist, journalist and scholar all rolled into one.''
I'd enjoyed pretty good reviews on my six books, but modest sales. After 16 years I wanted Neil to have it all. I knew little about best-seller lists except that they appeared in certain newspapers on Sundays. I was thrilled to pick up The Washington Post Book World on Oct. 2 and find ''A Bright Shining Lie'' listed as No. 4. It was No. 5 on the 9th, No. 7 on the 16th, and No. 2 on the 23d. By then I had read the fine print below the list - ''Book World best-seller hotline: (202) 334-4175.'' Late every Friday afternoon an up-to-date recording of a woman's voice was played. She recited the 10 hard-cover fiction best sellers, the 10 hard-cover nonfiction best sellers, then the paperback best sellers for the Sunday nine days hence. On Friday, Oct. 21, I knew that Neil's book would be No. 1 in Washington on Sunday, the 30th.
Book-prize season opened in early October, when Robert Loomis called to tell us that Neil's book was one of the five nominees for the National Book Award for nonfiction. The night before the awards ceremony, the 10 nominees were invited to read from their books before a small audience.
The ceremony itself was a black-tie dinner at the Pierre in New York. Neil's tuxedo, bought in 1964, had hung undisturbed in the closet for years, but when I looked at it that morning I noticed it was frayed. I suggested he buy a new one. When we got to the store he tried on an elegant tuxedo with black grosgrain lapels - and developed sticker shock. His first tuxedo had cost $150. A new one, including vest and bow tie, would cost close to $1,000, the sum given to each nominee. ''Buy it,'' I said. ''What if I don't win?''
''You'll feel less like buying it. If you lose, at least you'll have a new tux.'' Alterations were done in two hours. The 29th of November appeared to be publishing's answer to Academy Award night. Television camera crews and photographers roamed the Pierre's grand ballroom. I sat next to Robert Bernstein, then the chief executive officer of Random House. Soon the chairman of the panel of fiction judges was reading the five citations the judges had composed, and the fiction nominees (or their editors) were coming up to the platform. The chairman proclaimed: ''The winner is . . .'' It was Pete Dexter, a Random House author and also a Bob Loomis author. The chairman of the nonfiction panel then read and presented his judges' citations in alphabetical order.
''What do you think, win or lose, is it worth it?'' Bob Bernstein whispered to me during the applause for the fourth nominee, holding my icy hand in his. ''Yes,'' I prayed. Neil walked slowly to the dais and the chairman read:
''Neil Sheehan spent 16 years writing 'A Bright Shining Lie.' It is a work of remarkable lucidity, but also of remarkable passion, which bridges several nonfiction genres: history; social history; biography; memoir; investigative reporting. The narrative's richness of detail is as impressive as the economy of its detail; the murky figure of a hero coming inexorably into focus as an individual throws an entire era into relief. This is a work of multiple and perhaps one could say epic ironies, among which one must count the title. It's the truth that shines here.''
When I heard what was to be my favorite description of the book, and the one with the most radiant last line, I knew Neil had won, and he did. He hugged and kissed me, and returned to the stage to accept his award. The audience had risen to its feet. I will never forget the roar of that crowd.
The prizes - lucite blocks, metal busts and parchment scrolls - kept coming. Neil won the Columbia Journalism Award (the first journalist ever to receive it twice), a Robert F. Kennedy Book Award, his second Sidney Hillman Award, a special achievement award from the Vietnam Veterans of America and several others. On March 30, 1989, our 24th wedding anniversary, he received the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction.
The prize that touched Neil most was the John F. Kennedy Award from his hometown of Holyoke, Mass., where his late father had been a dairy farmer and where his mother, Mary O'Shea Sheehan, and many of his relatives from County Kerry, still live. It is given every year to ''an outstanding American of Irish descent.'' The award was the occasion for a gala 1989 St. Patrick's Day weekend. There was a High Mass at which the presiding bishop presented Neil with a wooden and brass plaque. ''This is a very heavy award,'' the Most Rev. Joseph F. Maguire whispered in caution, as he handed it over. A banquet at Holyoke Community College (built in the middle of what had been the Sheehan family's cow pasture) followed. Neil's trophy on that occasion was an Irish blackthorn stick.
[Text omitted] was mine, just mine to keep,'' she wrote.
One pays a price for whatever one does. That is life. If at times the price seemed high, well, few people ever have the chance to spend 16 years doing what they want to do. One night not long ago Neil was in a reflective mood. ''Those middle years may have been the best damn years of my life,'' he said. ''There were so many things I didn't do. I could have had a bird dog and gone quail hunting in Georgia. We could have taken vacations in Europe. Some days I wake up and I think, I'm not young anymore, I've got a bum knee, I'll never be able to jump out of a helicopter again like I used to do in the Mekong Delta. But then I think what the hell, age catches up with you whatever you do, and I've been lucky. I saw more of our daughters than most fathers do, and I wrote the book I wanted to write.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left: Susan Sheehan, who wrote this article, with her husband, Neil, in their Washington home. (Keith Jenkins) (pg. 38); Below: Neil Sheehan in 1971, working on the Pentagon Papers for The Times (Renato Perez/The New York Times) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BRIGHT SHINNING LIE, A: JOHN PAUL VANN AND AMERICA IN VIETNAM

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (71%); HELICOPTERS (56%); 

PERSON: SHEEHAN, SUSAN; SHEEHAN, NEIL JOHN PAUL VANN (93%); MARCUS AURELIUS ARNHEITER (86%); 



374 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:

SKETCHES FROM A LIFE, by George F. Kennan. (Pantheon, $12.95.) The man who first championed the idea of containment against Soviet expansion provides a glimpse into his diaries dating from 1927 to the twilight of the cold war. '' 'Sketches From a Life' is a book by one of the wisest men in American public life today,'' James Chace said here last year. ''It is a wonder to read, and I was sorry to put it down.''
 
JOHN DOLLAR, by Marianne Wiggins. (Perennial/Harper & Row, $8.95.) Stranded on an island off the coast of Burma, a group of British schoolgirls goes mad. But then, bit by bit, they start to make their own civilization. Last year our reviewer, Michael Gorra, said this novel is more than a '' 'Lord of the Flies,' this time with little girls.'' Marianne Wiggins's ''prose has a quirky brilliance . . . simultaneously spare and lush, as precisely opulent as a diamond solitaire - darting, telegraphic. . . . In reading the last 30 pages I seemed to feel an almost malarial series of hot and cold flashes, as I was drawn on by the horror of the novel's action.'' 
 
AFRICAN MADNESS, by Alex Shoumatoff. (Vintage, $9.95.) A writer for The New Yorker chronicles AIDS in Africa, Emperor Bokassa's trial for cannibalism and Dian Fossey's obsession with gorillas. ''Like a Graham Greene character, Alex Shoumatoff seems drawn to hot, bug-ridden places,'' Michiko Kakutani said in The Times in 1988. ''At his best, his writing combines a naturalist's precision with a journalist's chatty command of facts.'' Vintage has also reissued FLORIDA RAMBLE ($9.95), in which the author explores another of the world's exotic corners.
 
DEAD LANGUAGES, by David Shields. (Perennial/Harper & Row, $8.95.) Born into a family of writers, Jeremy, a stutterer, learns that even the articulate suffer from the limitations of language. Last year The Times's Eva Hoffman called David Shields ''a talented writer [who] explores fertile themes with intelligence and verbal energy.''
 
LIFE AND DEATH: The Story of a Hospital, by Ina Yalof. (Fawcett Crest, $4.95.) A medical journalist tells how Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center grew from a small hospital in semirural northern Manhattan to a city within a city that every day serves 8,000 meals, washes 30,000 pounds of laundry, fields 8,000 phone calls and delivers 19,000 pieces of mail. Last year our reviewer, Fitzhugh Mullan, called the book ''a rich mosaic that persuades the reader of the ironies and the humanity of the hospital as well as its complexity.''
 
NATURAL HISTORY, by Joan Perucho. Translated by David H. Rosenthal. (Ballantine, $4.95.) In 19th-century Spain a naturalist called upon to exterminate a vampire learns that there are some things science cannot explain. The Catalan novelist Joan Perucho ''enriches the plot with elegant descriptions of the landscape, wildlife and customs of Catalonia, the nature of romantic and fraternal love and the ruinous politics of the Carlist War,'' Nicholas Shrady said here last year.
 
DEATH AT THE CUT, by Douglas Kiker. (Ballantine, $3.95.) Assigned by The New York Times Magazine to write a profile of a senator who wants to be President, an unemployed journalist stumbles across a murder case involving a beautiful woman. Douglas Kiker, a reporter for NBC News, tells his story ''in a sophisticated manner,'' Newgate Callendar said here in 1988. ''His prose flows effortlessly, quiet but filled with tension.''
 
ALL THE RIGHT ENEMIES: The Life and Murder of Carlo Tresca, by Dorothy Gallagher. (Penguin, $8.95.) When he was gunned down on a Manhattan street corner in 1943 by the gangster Carmine Galante, Carlo Tresca, an Italian-born anarchist and newspaper editor, had a roster of enemies that included Communists and Fascist sympathizers as well as the Mafia. Who then ordered the hit? In 1988 our reviewer, Alfred Kazin, called this biography ''a first-class book, extraordinarily well researched, that in its way is a perfect detective story even as it brings back a whole period in American life.''
 
RIPENING: Selected Work, by Meridel Le Sueur. Edited by Elaine Hedges. (Feminist Press, $10.95.) When this collection of writings by the radical journalist and novelist was published in 1982, our reviewer, Blanche Gelfant, said it ''inspires belief in the power of a writer - and a woman - to prevail against poverty, persecution and public neglect. . . . Le Sueur seems in love with the spoken word, and her consummate achievement as an artist, I believe, is her transformation of colloquial speech into musical prose.''
 
HARNESSING PEACOCKS, by Mary Wesley. (Penguin, $7.95.) Having escaped the upper-class family that wanted her to have an abortion, Hebe Rutter supports herself and her son by working as a prostitute. ''This English author, who published her first novel at 70, once again defies stereotypes,'' Nancy Forbes said here in 1986. ''Her writing is immediate, her people distinctly contemporary, from whatever generation, and all are frankly sexual.'' Penguin has also republished Mary Wesley's first novel, THE CAMOMILE LAWN ($7.95.), the story of a family of promiscuous cousins living in Cornwall during World War II. ''She does keep the reader turning the page,'' Mary Cantwell said here in 1984, ''if only to see who just slid into bed with whom.''
 
A QUESTION OF GUILT, by Frances Fyfield. (Pocket Books, $4.50.) An English widow who has fallen in love with her solicitor plots to murder his wife. Last year our reviewer, Marilyn Stasio, said Frances Fyfield ''is remarkably thorough in her psychological profiles, giving subtle nuances to characters who are mere passers-by in this psychodrama.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marianne Wiggins (Jonathan Player)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (86%); LITERATURE (77%); MALARIA (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (67%); HOSPITALS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE GRAHAM GREENE (54%); DIAN FOSSEY (54%); 



375 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: THEIR MONEY WASN'T ENOUGH

BYLINE: By JAMES MACGREGOR BURNS; James MacGregor Burns, a political historian at Williams College, is the author of, among other works, the trilogy ''The American Experiment.''

 BODY:

ALFRED I. DU PONT
The Man and His Family.
By Joseph Frazier Wall.
Illustrated. 685 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $27.95.
 
THE CORPORATE STATE AND THE BROKER STATE
The Du Ponts and
American National Politics, 1925-1940.
By Robert F. Burk. 
Illustrated. 359 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $35.
These two books complement each other nicely. In ''Alfred I. du Pont,'' Joseph Frazier Wall, a professor of history at Grinnell College, summarizes the history of the du Pont family from the 1730's to the 1930's, centering on his subject, the maverick member of the family. Robert F. Burk, an associate professor of history at Muskingum College, concentrates on the political role of the du Ponts during the 1930's in ''The Corporate State and the Broker State.''
Both raise an arresting question: How could a 200-year-old dynasty demonstrate such a combination of industrial genius and political ineptness?
The du Ponts' entrepreneurship over those two centuries has long been chronicled and hence is only marginally covered in these two works. But readers may be so beguiled by these personal and political narratives as to forget that this family built one of the biggest industrial and financial empires in America. Most of the Du Pont Company heads were proudly ''black powder'' men, meeting the nation's peacetime needs, such as construction. But in wartime they had to respond to the nation's call for explosives, resulting in their being tarred in the 1930's, along with other munitions makers, as ''merchants of death.''
Politically the family got its start in prerevolutionary France. Of humble birth, Pierre Samuel du Pont (1739-1817) rose to a high diplomatic position in the court of Louis XVI. He collaborated with moderate reformers during the early revolutionary days, only to be swept out of influence as radical revolutionaries took over. Pierre barely escaped with his life by donning a red revolutionary cap and fleeing through the streets of Paris. He even won office later under the Directory, only to run into new oppression and the threat of deportation to Devil's Island. Resolving to move his whole family to America, he accomplished this difficult feat in 1799.
Long a friend of Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, and an admirer of the American Revolution, Pierre found himself at home in the New World. In his politics he played both sides, retaining Alexander Hamilton as attorney for the family company and later advising President Jefferson on how to negotiate the purchase of Louisiana from Napoleon. For a time the du Ponts fared better politically than financially; after producing its first barrels of gunpowder their company went broke, but the family persevered and prospered, especially in wartime.
If only the du Ponts could have remained in the genteel world of the 18th century, they might have flourished politically as well as financially. Or if they could have restricted themselves to the Republican environment of the late 19th century or the 1920's - periods of economic expansion, industrial combinations and huge profit-making under benign governmental neglect - they might have continued to enjoy autonomy. But somehow they managed to be anti-Jacksonian in the Jacksonian era of the 1830's, anti-Theodore Roosevelt during the turn-of-the-century trust-busting era and anti-union all the way. They did, however, support the North during the Civil War, which turned the company into an industrial giant.
Of course they were utterly unprepared for the Depression, the New Deal, the resurgent unionism of the mid-1930's. Most of the du Ponts feared and despised Franklin D. Roosevelt and his reforming ways. Their main weapon was the Republican Party in general and the Liberty League in particular. Organized in 1934 with lavish contributions of both ideas and money from the family, the league served as the political action committee for a wide array of big businessmen. Well-financed and well-staffed, the league kept up a steady, intense drumbeat of criticism of the New Deal through pamphlets, radio programs and the press.
To watch F.D.R. deal with the Liberty League in these volumes, particularly in Mr. Burk's study, is to see a master politico outwit and outmaneuver a host of amateurs. When Jouett Shouse, the league's hired head, read its platform to F.D.R. during a courtesy visit to the Oval Office, the President turned on his charm. He could approve of the league's aims 100 percent, he told Shouse. A week later, however, he announced to reporters that the league was like an organization founded to uphold ''two of the Ten Commandments'' - both of them involving property rights.
Infuriated, the league declared all-out war. One of its most prominent sympathizers, Al Smith, resplendent in white tie and tails, told a hotel dinner of thousands of conservatives that there could be ''only one capital, Washington or Moscow,'' and ''only one flag, the Stars and Stripes, or the flag of the godless Union of the Soviets.'' By 1936 the league was aiming to defeat F.D.R. for re-election. It failed; why? Because its timing was poor, its coalition-building inept, its charges exaggerated, its tone emotional and ideological, while F.D.R. skillfully formed a huge electoral majority.
These narratives not only edify the general reader but illuminate the nature of economic power and the political process in America. An economic determinist would assume that a family as large, wealthy and active as the du Ponts would wield a mighty wallop in the political arena. Clearly they wanted to, but they failed, not only because of their lack of skill but because of the dispersion of power in the American system and the sharp divisions and lack of political leadership within the family. The du Ponts illustrate once again that economic power can rarely be transformed into political weight in the United States without a steep discount.
The du Ponts, men and women, were always larger than life. Their quarrels with one another were intense, their lawsuits (also against one another) dramatic, even their deaths theatrical. As Mr. Wall recounts, Alfred was squeezed out of the high command by close relatives and spent the rest of his life happily marrying and divorcing, thwarting his relatives' political ambitions and supporting women's suffrage and even F.D.R. A number of du Pont men perished, sometimes heroically, in powder explosions. One died when his wife administered him - in error, we assume - a stomach medicine that turned out to be a lethal poison. Another, Mr. Wall relates, was shot through the heart in the fanciest bordello in Louisville, Ky., by a prostitute angered by his refusal to pay for the support of her child.
But if these books tell a more fascinating story than ''Dallas,'' they are not about to be put on film or television. Each offers more details than the average reader or even historian wants to know. Mr. Wall tends toward repetition and cliches, Mr. Burk toward prolixity. Yet each is scholarly, meticulous and fair, and the sheer momentum of the dynamic du Ponts propels one to persevere through the combined 1,000 pages with continuing pleasure and occasional astonishment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alfred I. du Pont in 1903. (From: ''Alfred I. Du Pont'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ALFRED I DU PONT: THE MAN AND HIS FAMILY (BOOK); CORPORATE STATE AND THE BROKER STATE, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: DD (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); HISTORY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); LAWYERS (68%); DEPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JAMES MACGREGOR; WALL, JOSEPH FRAZIER; BURK, ROBERT F ROBERT F BURK (70%); PIERRE SAMUEL DU PONT (66%); JOSEPH FRAZIER WALL (58%); 



376 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 6, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: DATA UPDATE: April 15, 1990

 BODY:

MEDIAN RESALE HOUSE PRICES	 	 	 	 	 	 		Feb.90	Jan. 90	Feb. 89	 	 	 	 	Nation	$95,400	$96,300	$91,900	Northeast	143,400	147,100	142,800	Midwest	73,800	75,600	70,200	South	85,600	85,300	86,500	West	143,100	144,400	128,200	 	 	 	 	(Source: National Association of Realtors)	 	 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.50	10.48	11.41	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.65	8.64	9.46	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.30	10.28	11.19	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.35	8.36	9.21	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.38	10.36	11.40	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.54	8.56	9.73	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.68	10.78	11.92	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.85	8.82	9.52	 	 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	8.29	8.34	9.47	National Mortgage Contract Rate	9.74	9.74	9.44	
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; PRICES REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); 



377 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 1, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Federal Pay Linked To High L.I. Costs

BYLINE: By JOHN ARUNDEL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ARLENE RABENBAUER is the type of Long Island Federal worker getting a lot of attention from Washington lawmakers these days. The 40-year-old claims development clerk for the Social Security Administration lives in Holbrook, where she supports herself, her widowed mother and her disabled brother on an annual salary of $17,975.
''It's very, very rough living on that in Long Island,'' she said. ''With taxes and the rising cost of living, you end up living hand to mouth.''
Three proposals pending in Congress dealing with Long Island as a hardship area for Federal employees, from Senator John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio, Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of Queens, and the Bush Administration, could change all that. 
If so-called locality pay legislation passes Congress, Ms. Rabenbauer and 15,000 other Federal workers on Long Island and in other expensive parts of the country could see higher salaries. The proposals would effectively abandon the Federal Government's uniform pay system, in which clerk-typists on Long Island, for example, earn no more than those in Mississippi.
''Salarywise, the Federal Government is competing with McDonald's,'' said Representative Ackerman, who in March introduced legislation to link the Federal pay system to all salaries nationwide. ''As a result we've got an awful lot of quality walking down the block.''
A recent survey by the Congressional Research Service found that the purchasing power of Federal salaries has declined almost 25 percent since 1977 because pay increases have not kept pace with inflation. In the New York region, recent surveys conclude that there is a 28 percent gap between Federal and private-sector pay.
The Bush Administration's long-awaited proposal to overhaul Federal employee pay will go to Congress this week. More than one year in the plan ning by the Office of Personnel Management, the proposal would allow Federal workers in expensive areas to earn salaries as much as 25 percent more than those in less expensive areas.
On Long Island, the proposal would mean a 12 percent increase, as well as special bonuses, to recruit, retain and relocate critical-skill workers.
Administration and professional employees with hard-to-find job skills could earn as much as 60 percent more than current rates under the Bush proposal.
The proposal would pay professionals and administrators on a national scale based on a Bureau of Labor Statistics survey of comparable jobs. Salaries for clerks and technicians would be adjusted annually based on typical salaries for equivalent jobs in their area.
Under the plan, professionals and administrators would receive comparable pay increases within 10 percent of what similar workers in the private sector in state and local government receive. The pay raise for clerks and technicians would also be within 10 percent of the going rate for similar work in their locality. If approved, the Bush plan would take effect in 1995.
''Philosophically, the public sector is supposed to pay wages that are on par with the private sector,'' said Representative George Hochbrueckner, Democrat of Centereach, who represents New York's First District, home to more than 6,000 Federal workers, including several thousand Internal Revenue Service employes in Holtsville. ''But virtually across the board this is not the case.''
In Nassau and Suffolk Counties, with limited public transportation, expensive housing and high property taxes, stagnant Federal pay levels have had a chilling effect on recruiting and retention.
Some Federal employers on Long Island say they are fighting to keep dedicated and talented career civil servants who can find jobs elsewhere paying two and three times what they make working for the Federal Government.
''It's very hard to hold on to people,'' said Walter Rosenfeld, an operations supervisor at the Social Security Administration office in Melville, where salaries start at $12,000. ''We simply can't compete with the pay scales and benefit packages offered by private companies.''
 
Survey Finds Problems
In a 1988 survey of major Federal offices in the New York region, the New York Executive Board found problems in recruitment and retention at every agency. Among the professional occupations, the board found that one-third of positions were vacant. Between 50 and 52 percent of mid-level positions were unfilled and, similarly, about half of the clerical positions were vacant because people were not interested in the jobs at the pay rates offered. Of those hired that year, 37 percent quit for higher pay.
''The Federal Government has basically become a spawning ground for the private sector,'' said Representative Ackerman, who predicted that closing the Federal-private pay gap would cost $2 billion. ''There's a great magical allure for people to work for the Government, but they also need to feed their kids.''
Representative Ackerman's bill would adjust Federal pay each year based on the Employment Cost Index, a national measure of wages and salaries. The Bureau of Labor Statistics conducts the salary survey each year and the President would be required to follow the recommendations.
 
13-Member Salary Council
The bill would create a 13-member Federal Salary Council that would define expensive areas around the country and recommend locality-based pay increases. Surveys to determine salary conditions would be conducted every three years.
Representative Ackerman's plan would authorize wage increases to Federal workers based on where they work. Salary increases would occur in areas where nonfederal pay outstrips government salaries. The increases would be triggered when private sector pay in that area is at least one percent higher than the wages for similar Federal jobs.
Under a 1970 law, Federal workers are supposed to earn as much as their counterparts in the private sector. But the law has been ignored by every President since Gerald Ford.
In early March, Senator Glenn introduced a Federal pay reform bill that would alter the 1970 bill. Under his legislation, Federal workers in cities where the pay gap is greatest would receive automatic pay adjustments.
At hearings on the Glenn pay plan March 21 and 22, it was disclosed that civil servants in the New York metropolitan area would get an average pay raise of $3,827. But under Mr. Glenn's calculations, Long Island workers would not be entitled to hardship pay.
The 1991 fiscal budget, released in late January, already includes some sweeteners for Federal workers. The budget proposes allowing Federal agencies to use up to $328 million to institute Federal pay reform and seeks 5 percent increases in starting salaries nationwide.
The Administration is also considering authorizing geographic pay differentials of up to 8 percent for all personnel in the New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco metropolitan areas, said Stephen Hart, deputy press secretary at the White House. ''As you can see from what we've done so far, we are very concerned about the situation,'' he said.
In the meantime, Federal agencies with offices on Long Island are struggling to recruit and retain workers.
Officials at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Northport, for example, say they have lost more than 400 employees in the last 15 months and are scrambling to fill 136 permanent positions. Last year, to help fill openings, the 758-bed center instituted several pay increases for physicians and nurses.
But V.A. officials say they are experiencing the greatest difficulty in finding unskilled clerical workers, many who earn a starting salary of $11,000. The V.A. staff members have received cost-of-living increases amounting to only 12 percent since 1986, while the Consumer Price Index for metropolitan New York rose 19 percent over the same period, according to Federal Labor Department statistics.
 
Success for F.B.I.
The push for higher wages has been successful in some places.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is one example. With 1,200 agents and support staff members assigned to many high-profile cases and F.B.I. offices in Manhattan, Melville and Queens, a New York posting had once been considered a plum assignment. But during the 1980's, high living costs drove many agents away, including a field director.
''We were losing agents who had been with the F.B.I. for 10 years,'' said Joseph Valiquette, an F.B.I. spokesman. ''They were quitting and going back to Omaha to become police officers.''
The losses were hurting morale and costing the F.B.I. millions, he said, because the agency must spend $120,000 in replacement and training for each lost agent.
The turnaround came in September 1988 when Congress passed a bill authorizing up to 25 percent in retention allowance for New York F.B.I. personnel. Under the bill, F.B.I. agents transferring into the New York office now receive a $20,000 lump payment if they agree to work in New York for three years and live within 50 miles of the city.
The results have been dramatic. Attrition has dropped off 50 percent in 1989 from the year before, the F.B.I. says.
At the Internal Revenue Service's processing center in Brookhaven, employees recently got $12 million in pay increases. Most of the data transcribers and tax examiners at the facility will be getting a $3,000 raise this year. Their current salaries range from $14,000 to $17,000.
But the I.R.S. has still found itself losing the salary war. Officials are fighting widespread attrition among its 5,000 employees. In 1989, more than 29 percent of the Brookhaven work force, or 1,462 employees, quit their jobs, said Joanne Luciani, an I.R.S. spokeswoman.
''It's becoming more difficult on Long Island because of all the industry moving here,'' she said. ''When we're competing with private industry we really are at a disadvantage.''
The I.R.S. responded to the competition for clericals by raising salaries and engaging in a variety of promotional tactics.
To draw applicants to the 20 job fairs it holds before the filing season, it tethered a balloon over its building, advertised on the radio and ran films for children while their parents took screening tests. By March, every position was filled, Ms. Luciani said.
Officials say they are optimistic about pay raises for Federal workers if both House and Senate versions pass with few modifications.
''The pay gap is still a canyon,'' said Steven Kreisber, executive director of the National Federation of Federal Employees, a Washington-based union with 150,000 members. ''But there is a feeling in Washington that we will see some meaningful pay increases for Federal employees this year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND FEDERAL (58%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); STATISTICS (64%); 

PERSON: ARUNDEL, JOHN; GLENN, JOHN (SEN); ACKERMAN, GARY L (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GARY L ACKERMAN (88%); 



378 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 4, Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: For Youths On the Edge of Trouble

BYLINE: By TOM CALLAHAN

 BODY:
A GROUP of youngsters, from 16 to 21 years old, will take part in a weeklong job-training program this month that leads to a one-day job fair with potential employers. What is unusual about these youngsters is that they all have been involved with the juvenile-justice system.
''There have been signs of trouble with these kids,'' said Karen Bonaparte, executive director of the Yonkers Rehabilitation Center. ''Many of them never had jobs or even gave any thought to their employment options. We want to get these kids before what has happened to them in the past becomes a pattern or the only option for their future.'' 
The job training program, entitled Consortium for Youth, is one of 11 in Westchester being supported as state Special Delinquency Prevention Programs. Each of these private agency programs receives part of its financing from New York State. For the last eight years, New York State has set money aside for delinquency prevention efforts selected and administered by county Youth Bureaus in the state.
Westchester will receive $502,069 for these programs this year, a figure determined by the number of young people living in the county.
 
Demonstrated Risks
Of the 285,000 people in Westchester under the age of 21, the Special Delinquency Prevention Programs target 2,500 of them as possibly in need of help. They are not necessarily juvenile delinquents but ''are subject to variables that could lead to delinquency,'' said Dr. Toni Collarini, executive director of the Westchester County Youth Bureau.
''The targeted youngsters have either been involved with the juvenile or criminal justice systems, or the mental health or social service systems,'' she said. ''They have demonstrated a risk of dropping out of school, or being abused, neglected or unemployed.''
Dr. Collarini points out that at any given time about 100 minors are inmates at the county penitentiary. While noting that this is a narrow part of the county's youth population, she said ''it is going to cost more to incarcerate a youngster or provide residential care at a state-run facility after antisocial behavior than it is to try and prevent that behavior from ever happening.''
State guidelines specify that any program receiving funds must be a ''nonrecreational intervention'' effort, Dr. Collarini said. That means they must provide either counseling, tutorial help, remedial education, employment readiness, nonfinancial family support or parenting education.
 
'Kids Sometimes Get Lost'
One local program receiving $28,000 this year is Project Intercept, a Mount Vernon effort sponsored by the Westchester Jewish Community Services that has been part of the state program for six years.
Project Intercept tries to identify children between kindergarten and fifth grade who are having problems in school. About 60 children a year are referred to the program by the school, other participants or the Department of Social Services.
Program officials then meet with the child's family to ''focus on the learning problems and how they manifest themselves,'' said Dorothy Fox, the program's coordinator.
A tutor is then provided at the school to work with the child. That tutor also becomes a ''liaison,'' as Ms. Fox put it, between the school and Project Intercept. ''Kids sometimes get lost in the system,'' she explained.
''We have to help them obtain from the school system what they need in order to learn how to read,'' she said. ''Our goal is to get the family to respond to and understand what happens with their child.''
Another of the delinquency programs dealing with education is Challenge to Education, sponsored by Student Advocacy Inc., a countywide nonprofit agency that tries to insure that every child receives an education.
Failure and Anger
Kathleen Peters Durrigan, the executive director of Student Advocacy, said that half of the students suspended for disciplinary problems have undetected handicaps or learning disabilities.
''For a learning disabled child who can't read before going to school, the parents may think that child is not bright enough,'' she said. ''In school, the kid tries but still can't read and they then begin to internalize their anger. By the eighth or ninth grade, you get an angry kid who is going to strike out against the system and might end up suspended.''
Challenge to Education will receive $47,000 in state money this year. Program officials work with both the parents and schools and sometimes do a classroom observation of the child to get a ''better picture of the child's best interest and what they are entitled to by law,'' Ms. Durrigan said. ''We're an advocate on behalf of the student.''
The program might, for example, seek special education or alterntive programs for the student. If the youngster has already dropped out of school, it might try to help him re-enter the educational system, which one legally can do up until the age of 21.
 
Pooling Resources
The Consortium for Youth Program started in January of 1989 and was created as a direct result of the Special Delinquency Prevention Programs. In the process of applying for state aid, 11 agencies came together and decided to pool their resources in the job-training program coordinated by the Yonkers Rehabilitation Center, a private nonprofit corporation. The state is providing the consortium with $28,000 this year to help 40 youngsters a year from lower Westchester.
''Our primary goal is to take these kids, bring them into the mainstream and prepare them for the world of work,'' said Ms. Bonaparte, the center's executive director. ''The second goal is social. We want to improve the youngsters' self-esteem and make them look at themselves as participating members of the community. We want them to see what options are available to them.''
Participants who complete the job training cycle are then helped with job placement.
 
Hard to Measure
Among other agencies receiving the state funds are the Urban League of Westchester, Family Services of Westchester and the Youth Shelter Program of Westchester.
At the end of the year, the County Youth Bureau evaluates each program ''depending on what they're trying to accomplish,'' Dr. Collarini said. ''Because we're talking about prevention, that's a hard thing to measure.'' The evaluation determines eligibility for continued funding.
Dr. Collarini hopes that eventually the programs can be expanded to help young people as they are released from the county penitentiary.
''Every time we lose a young person, we lose a resource for the future,'' she said. ''In a time of stress for kids with problems like single-parent families and substance abuse, more pressure is put on the schools. But the schools can't do it all. These programs provide extra support to high-risk youngsters.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (50%); WESTCHESTER COUNTY YOUTH BUREAU (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSORTIUM FOR YOUTH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); JUVENILE DELINQUENCY EMPLOYMENT (91%); CHILDREN (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (88%); CRIME PREVENTION (88%); PARENTING SUPPORT (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); PARENTING (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 



379 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 April 15, 1990, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Developer's Collapse Shocks Florida Homeowners

BYLINE: By PAUL BLYTHE

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
The financial and legal problems of the General Development Corporation, one of Florida's largest home builders, have enveloped home owners in Florida and land purchasers across the country in uncertainty over the future of their investments.
The company filed for bankruptcy on April 6, a month after pleading guilty to charges of fraud in its sales practices.
Since 1955, General Development has built nine communities in the state, mostly through central Florida and bearing names such as Port St. Lucie and Port Charlotte. The developments, with a total of 220,000 residents in 38,000 dwellings, comprise town houses and single-family dwellings ranging in price from $40,000 to $128,000.
Company officials say the intent of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing is to give it time to reorganize and to find financing to meet its short-term cash needs so that it can continue its long-term operations. 
But lawyers for the customers who have legal claims against the company say the filing casts doubt about the company's ability to pay on those claims.
Last Monday, Judge A. Jay Cristol rejected a company proposal to leave 70,000 lot owners without recompense and called for a new hearing in Federal Bankruptcy Court. Lawyers for litigants against the company expect a complicated legal wrangle to unfold.
''It's going to be utter chaos,'' said Richard Joel, an Oradell, N.J., lawyer who represents 4,000 home customers from the Northeast in a civil suit filed against the company in Federal Court in Newark. ''It's such a complicated picture because no one knows if G.D.C.'s liabilities exceed their assets. The only thing for sure is no money is safe money at this time.'' General Development officials declined to comment. Like other national land-sale and development companies, General Development used a two-stage sales operation. First it sold people undeveloped lots, paid for over a period of 10.5 years. The second step was to persuade those who completed the payments to use their vacant lots as down payments for building a home on a lot in the location where the company was building at the time.
Andres Rivero, the assistant United States Attorney handling the case, has said in court that G.D.C. targeted immigrants, minorities and blue-collar workers - mostly first-time buyers unfamiliar with such transactions. Potential buyers were offered a trip to Florida to visit G.D.C. communities but had no chance on tightly controlled visits to compare its sales offering with those of competitive home builders, court records indicate.
The crime in all this, Mr. Rivero said in court, was that the appraisals offered visitors were from people who worked under contract to G.D.C. and whose figures were up to 40 percent higher than those for similar houses sold by local competitors. Undeveloped lots also often sold at 10 times the fair market value of the land, Mr. Rivero said. And those contracts were such that G.D.C. retained control of the deeds until the final payment was made. Of the 15,000 customers who bought lots in 1988, about 60 percent canceled their contracts. And in most of those cases, a 1988 G.D.C. annual report said, the company was able to retain those properties and payments without foreclosure costs.
It usually was not until people tried to sell their homes or refinance their mortgages that they realized they had been cheated, said Doug Lyons, a Miami lawyer who represented 107 homeowners in lawsuits that G.D.C. settled in January. Such realizations led to civil suits and, ultimately, the two-year Federal investigation that resulted in an indictment on March 16 against the company on 16 counts of mail fraud and conspiracy to transport people over state lines for the purpose of fraud.
The same day the indictment was unsealed, the company agreed to a plea bargain in which it and its top two executives, David Brown, its chairman, and Robert Ehrling, its president, would plead guilty to one criminal charge, pay a $500,000 fine, set up a restitution plan and enact reforms outlined in a consent decree.
Among the reforms were promises to dismiss employees involved in the deceptive practices and to permit home buyers to cancel a deal within 10 days if an independent appraisal shows the home price to be more than 7.5 percent higher than the estimated market value. Since then, eight executives have left the company, including Mr. Brown and Mr. Ehrling, who could each be sentenced to five years in prison and fined $250,000 for their guilty pleas.
They were replaced by Charles Simons, who worked at Eastern Airlines for 41 years before he retired in 1981 as its chief financial officer and joined G.D.C.'s board of directors in 1985 when the company went public. He will serve as interim chairman.
The restitution plan calls for the company to repay 9,600 customers who bought homes between Jan. 1, 1983, and Dec. 31, 1989. The plan requires a minimum payment of $12.5 million over five years and as much as $100 million over 25 years.
How the bankruptcy filing will affect the restitution plan is yet unclear, but Federal Judge Lenore Nesbitt, who is presiding over the criminal case, has said she could order G.D.C. to sell its assets to pay claimants. She will decide whether to accept the plan and the guilty pleas at a May 22 sentencing.
Mr. Lyons, who represents the 107 homeowners who reached settlements with G.D.C., speculated that the 9,600 homeowners covered in the plea bargain restitution plan would be considered secured creditors, which would put them on an equal footing with banks and mortgage companies in collecting from G.D.C.
That's better than the status of perhaps as many as 70,000 lot buyers whom Mr. Lyons also represents in two class-action suits. In the first of these, filed in 1985, the plaintiffs contend they should be paid damages or given new lots because the lots they bought were delivered late due to unfinished roads and sewer systems.
The other suit, filed in 1987, claims lot buyers who cancel contracts should be refunded amounts over 15 percent of the principal instead of amounts over 52 percent of the principal, which G.D.C. is currently paying.
These plaintiffs and the homeowners represented by Mr. Joel in Newark could receive nothing for their claims as a result of G.D.C.'s bankruptcy filing, Mr. Lyons said. Because these suits have not been settled, the clients could become unsecured creditors who would be paid only after the lawyers and secured creditors were paid. The developer's financial problem, which the company claims is one of liquidity, has resulted partially from its legal problems. ''The fraud charges have made it increasingly more difficult to collect payments-receivable from customers,'' said Nelly Medel, the company spokesman.
But she said the company's financial crises also stem from a complex mixture of recent economic events, including the collapse of South Florida savings-and-loan institutions that G.D.C. dealt with and the collapse of the junk-bond market, where company bonds were traded.
''You get into trouble when you pledge the receivable money you expect from tomorrow's contracts to pay for yesterday's debts,'' Mr. Lyons said. ''It's a pretty tangled web, no question about it.''
On April 3, the developer, which has assets of $863 million and liabilities of $834 million, laid off 1,100 employees in a shutdown of its lot sales operations worldwide, according to its bankruptcy petition.
Last Monday, the company also laid off 239 construction workers and stopped all construction of new homes and all development of roads and sewers on home sites, Ms. Medel said.
The company is continuing operation of its community utilties, road repairs, home sales at community site offices, and time-share operations at resorts near Orlando and in east Tennessee. Ms. Medel said it also hopes to resume the selling of lots and the construction of new homes.
''The company has been around so long, we just can't accept ending like this,'' she said. ''Mr. Simons has pledged his all to make this work, and the intent of this filing is to reorganize so the company can continue its operations in the future.''

GRAPHIC: photos: Model houses at the General Development Corporation community in Port St. Lucie.; General Development town-house condominiums on small lake at Port St. Lucie. (The New York Times/Susan Greenwood)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GDV (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (91%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC GULF COMMUNITIES CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); 

PERSON: BLYTHE, PAUL ANDRES RIVERO (55%); 



380 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: THE U.S: STILL ON ITS FEET

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. BESCHLOSS; Michael R. Beschloss is the author of ''Kennedy and Roosevelt: The Uneasy Alliance'' and ''Mayday: Eisenhower, Khrushchev and the U-2 Affair.''

 BODY:

BOUND TO LEAD
The Changing Nature of American Power.
By Joseph S. Nye Jr.
307 pp. New York: Basic Books. $19.95.
No postwar Presidential candidate has ever been defeated for railing against the country's decline. In 1960, John F. Kennedy declared, ''This nation in 1965 will still be the greatest, but will it still be the most powerful? . . . We are falling behind - behind in our schedules, behind in our needs, behind the Russians in our rate of progress.'' In 1970, President Richard Nixon warned against America's becoming a ''pitiful, helpless giant'' and a ''second-rate power.'' In 1980, Ronald Reagan ran for President under the slogan ''Let's Make America Great Again.'' 
Each of these assertions turned out to have its irony. After campaigning on the need to restore United States nuclear superiority, Kennedy, as President, not only discovered that the nation had never lost its predominance, but moved toward the view that world peace would be better served by strategic parity with the Soviet Union. Mr. Nixon was the first postwar President to concede in public that the United States lived in a multipolar world. And the cost of Mr. Reagan's military buildup was the vast budget deficit that undermines American economic influence today.
The Harvard political scientist Samuel P. Huntington has observed that the public discussion of American decline often provides ''better indications of American psychology than of American power.'' Allowing this debate to be trivialized and distorted by emotion ill serves the nation's leaders, especially those who are the gravest offenders. This is why Joseph S. Nye Jr.'s corrective, ''Bound to Lead,'' is welcome.
Mr. Nye, the Ford Foundation Professor of International Security at Harvard, differs with Paul Kennedy's contention in ''The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers'' that the United States shows the symptoms of imperial exhaustion, like Philip II's Spain and Nicholas II's Russia. Mr. Nye allows that since the end of World War II, the American share of global product has slipped from roughly one-third to roughly one-fifth. But he calls this a ''return to normal'' from an artificial dominance over countries that had been invaded and bombed and needed to rebuild. He adds that the figure has remained stable since the early 1970's. Arguing against the thesis of military overcommitment, he notes that the ratio of the United States' defense burden to its share of world product is actually lower now than in the 1950's.
Among the countries of the world, he writes, only the United States is predominant in all of the traditional arsenals of power - territory and population, military might, economic vitality, technology. The country profits as well from less tangible resources, such as the international appeal of its culture and language; its attractiveness and openness to immigrants, foreign students and investors; its influence as a part of multinational institutions and alliances.
Are there any immediate challengers? Not the Soviet Union, with its economic, technological, political and ideological afflictions. Not China, with its unpredictable politics and still-backward economy. Not Japan, unless a very different political leadership is allowed to divert that country's immense technological and economic power into the building of a world-class military force. Not Europe, unless the one-market economic system that is to be established in 1992 leads to the much more difficult achievement of political integration. (Germany's movement toward reunification occurred too late for Mr. Nye to consider it as a separate case, but presumably that development has not caused him to alter his overall conclusions.) The end of the cold war, the spread of technology, rising nationalism in weak states and other fundamental changes are reshuffling the cards of world power. Not surprisingly, Mr. Nye proposes that the United States exercise leadership by restoring its domestic economic strength, preserving the ideal of an open world economy (without harming long-term American interests), helping to devise a new global balance of military power and making greater use of multinational organizations to overcome international problems like drugs, AIDS and global warming.
Displaying the sensible use of history that informs his book, Mr. Nye notes the cautionary lesson of the 19th century and the 1930's: ''If the strongest state does not lead, the prospects for instability increase.'' But the United States may be unable to mobilize its resources fully in order to provide that leadership. Mr. Nye cites the disappointing recent record of American productivity, savings, education, research and development. He also laments the diffusion of domestic political power - reflected in the weakness of political parties and the strength of interest groups, among other elements. Such factors make more difficult the coherent and expeditious decision making that would help to maximize the nation's influence in the world.
This places the burden on whoever is President to have the courage and political skill to lead - to warn Congress and the people against protectionism, sharp restrictions on immigration and foreign aid, and other measures that would reduce American global power.
Mr. Nye is not indifferent to who is President. He has in the past provided foreign policy advice to Democratic candidates, including Michael S. Dukakis in the 1988 campaign. If a Democrat reaches the White House in the not-too-distant future, Mr. Nye may well be at his side, urging the prescriptions outlined in this volume.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BOUND TO LEAD (BOOK)

TICKER: APCC (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3629 OTHER ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONVERSION CORP (92%); AMERICAN POWER PRODUCTS INC (92%); AMERICAN POWER DEVICES INC (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); WORLD WAR II (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); BUDGETS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: BESCHLOSS, MICHAEL R; NYE, JOSEPH S JR RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (72%); 



381 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Freeport, Me.;
House Prices Take a Tumble

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

 BODY:
WHEN a homeowner here decided to sell her waterfront house a year ago, two appraisers encouraged her to ask $269,500. Last month she accepted an offer based on her most recent asking price, $169,000.
Although the price reduction on most properties has not been as large as in her case, houses in today's sluggish market are being discounted throughout Maine. 
For example, a three-bedroom Cape Cod-style house with 200 feet of frontage on Quahog Bay in Harpswell that listed for $375,000 in June 1989 was reduced after six months to $339,000 and again recently to $299,000; a three-bedroom house in a small subdivision in Freeport was listed a year ago at $230,000 and recently was reduced to $219,000, and a four-bedroom farmhouse farther north, in Poland, was listed at $170,000 a year ago and is now $133,500.
''Three, four years ago people could put whatever price on it and get it,'' said Linda Coron, a broker in Brunswick who listed the Harpswell house. ''Now, houses are being more realistically priced.''
This town 20 miles north of Portland has so far been spared the worst of the decline in residential property values, but its commercial properties - despite a boom that began in 1980 - are starting to feel the pinch. Three commercial buildings will be going on the block this month.
Valerie Lamont, director of the Institute for Real Estate Research and Education at the University of Southern Maine in Portland, said the selling prices of houses in Maine appreciated 6 percent in 1989, compared with 11 and 12 percent in 1987 and 1988. In York County, however, which led the state in property appreciation from 1986 to 1988, the average selling price dropped by 2.5 percent in 1989.
The increases occurred as more and more people moved to Maine from southern New England and New York, where they sold houses for much more than they were going to pay for a new house in Maine. The newcomers came in with a lot of cash and often ended up bidding against one another, which sometimes resulted in houses' selling for more than the asking prices. But as the economy cooled and fewer newcomers came, the business slumped last year.
''People in Maine are not cash heavy,'' said Ms. Lamont. ''We can't sustain those high appreciations. We've burned ourselves out.''
Not only are people reducing their prices, Ms. Lamont said, but they are also paying closing costs and points. And Ms. Coron said she is seeing more sellers offering to finance at least part of the sale price.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Price for house on Quahog Bay, Harpswell, Me., has dropped $76,000. (The New York Times/Gary Guisinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (56%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MAINE

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; SALES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN VALERIE LAMONT (76%); LINDA CORON (61%); 



382 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 8, Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Retired Executives Return as Volunteers

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
A FEW years ago, when Thomas R. Hodge retired from American Telephone and Telegraph, the former division manager was told that as a consultant his advice would be worth $1,000 a day plus expenses, to executives anxious to tap his experience.
Today, Mr. Hodge is making full use of his professional talents. But as a member of the Retired Executives and Professionals group, he receives no fee at all for his consulting.
The retired executives program was started two-and-a-half years ago by a half-dozen retired executives and professionals, who wanted to use their time constructively to help nonprofit agencies. It has grown into an organization of about 75 retired and semi-retired members, 60 to 85 years old, who serve 47 of Westchester's nonprofit and government agencies. 
Retired Executives and Professionals is a division of the Westchester Retired Senior Volunteer Program, and members provide their managerial know-how on a full-time or part-time basis to the organization without charge.
 
Diverse Projects Undertaken
''It's a win-win situation,'' emphasized Mr. Hodge, who is 64. ''There are a lot of people in Westchester who have made enough money in satisfying careers who are now willing to use their skills and experience to give a hand to the agencies that can't afford all the managerial assistance they need.''
The group's volunteers, who work either alone or in teams, have taken on diverse projects, from an individual member developing a financial plan for a grass-roots agency, to monthly think-tank meetings that involve the entire membership in brainstorming sessions with specific agencies to come up with ideas for solving specific problems.
A few weeks ago, the members held a think-tank session that represented a departure for the group, said Mr. Hodge, who coordinates these sessions, because it was with a government agency.
 
How It Came About
''The way it came about was that the solid-waste division of the Westchester County Department of Public Works asked us to hold the meeting,'' he said. ''As far as I know, we are the first group of our kind to be working with a government agency. The solid waste division is doing work of real value to all of Westchester, so we were very glad to accommodate them.''
The first step involved the executive committee of the group listening to a presentation by James J. Hogan, the division's director of resources. ''The presentation was very informative and challenging,'' Mr. Hodge said. ''Since many of our own members have specifically expressed a desire to work with government, we were eager to see if we could be effective in this area.''
Mr. Hogan said he first heard about the volunteer program at a recycling exposition. ''Dick Schaab, of the Westchester County Association, mentioned the terrific job they were doing with the not-for-profits,'' he recalled. ''And it seemed to me that they might be good for us.
 
Tackling the Paper Waste
Mr. Hogan said it seemed logical that former busines executives could help his agency confront the problem of business and paper waste.
''The business community generates a tremendous amount of waste computer paper and corrugated paper,'' he explained. ''And even though the county has developed a recycling guide especially for waste office paper, we've been having difficulties in overcoming apathy on the part of business and getting companies to set up recycling programs. We came to the retired executives think-tank for suggestions.''
More recently, a group of the volunteers met with Mr. Hogan to go over the ideas that had been presented during the think-tank session. In addition to Mr. Hodge, there were Thomas Van Raalte, a retired chemical company executive; John Ware, a former industrial-sales manager for the John Wiley publishing company; Howard Cohn, a former editor with McGraw-Hill; and Letty G. Zander, a psychiatric social worker and the former program director of the psychiatric day hospital of White Plains Hospital. Phyllis Hersh, the professional coordinator of the retired executives group, also attended.
''Before I left for the think-tank meeting,'' Mr. Hogan said, ''my boss said, 'It's the Rosetta Stone, and here we have the opportunity to get some keys.' And, indeed, for us it was a fruitful encounter. I was astonished at not only the level of vitality the group exhibited, but of their grasp of recycling as a whole. Their ideas were much broader in scope and much more pragmatic than any we had had.''
 
One Idea Put Into Effect
One idea envisioned placing labeled recycling containers at strategic points around the county, like public parks and beaches. Mr. Hogan said this had already been put into effect. ''We've got in touch with manufacturers of the containers and hope to have them in various places where people congregate as soon as possible.''
The former business executives advised the agency to take tough measures when dealing with business. ''They suggested a carrot-and-stick approach, using more stick than carrot,'' Mr. Hogan said. ''For example, our profit-motive theory, that we could sell business on the idea of making money by recycling paper - especially computer waste paper, which has a high resale value - was immediately shot down.
''Instead, they advised we'd be better off to develop legislation that would mandate business to recycle waste paper. They were telling us that business would have to be forced to comply.'' The retired executives, he said, ''also suggested that we reward companies like the A.T.&T. and Reader's Digest that are already doing a terrific job recycling paper, with public recognition.''
 
Supplying the Know-How
Calling the volunteer group a ''real economic advantage for the county,'' Mr. Hogan said of the members: ''They can supply their know-how to other agencies. Their constructive ideas are already at the top of our priority list. And the price was right. We figured we saved thousand and thousands of dollars in consulting fees.''
Members of Retired Executives and Professionals say that it is the nonprofit agencies that always need more resources than they have access to.
''Although needs vary from agency to agency, they all go beyond money,'' Mr. Ware explained. ''Recently we were asked to set up the books and accounting procedures, starting from scratch, for a new agency of the United Way.'' He added that the volunteers' skills include ''everything from organizational development, financial-systems management through public relations.''
When the Mount Vernon United Tenants Organization received a grant from the county's Department of Social Services, it asked for assistance on how best to allocate the funds. This group began as a grassroots organization several years ago and has grown into a coalition that works to prevent homelessness and to promote tenants' rights.
''Naturally, they are anxious to get the biggest bang out of their bucks,'' Mr. Cohn said. ''They need help with such things as budget procedures, long-term planning and also in beefing up their board. One of our members is working with them to help put the organization on a businesslike basis.''
Mr. Van Raalte, whose job is interviewing prospective Retired Executives and Professionals volunteers, said: ''I'm always struck by the amount of talent lying fallow out there, especially now with more executives taking early retirement. In the retired executives program, they can use some of their time more constructively. What's more, they can avoid the query, 'What are you planning to do today, dear?' - which sent me right out of the door to R.E.P.''
Mrs. Zander is now monitoring assistance to six local health-care agencies.
''My job is interviewing volunteers and placing them in agencies that need them,'' she said. ''My former life included staff training and interviewing, which makes me very comfortable with my assignment.''
Although most of the group's members are male, Mrs. Zander said more retired female executives were surfacing. ''When faced with retirement, women face the same challenges men do,'' she said.
For information about joining Retired Executives and Professionals or about obtaining help from the group, call Sandra A. Rubio or Phyllis Hersh at 948-6069; or visit the group's offices at 470 Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains.

GRAPHIC: Photo; James J. Hogan, left, director of resources for the County Department of Public Works' solid-waste division, with Thomas R. Hodge, second from left, John Ware and Howard Cohn, right, after a meeting with members of Retired Executives and Professionals (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RETIRED EXECUTIVES AND PROFESSIONALS; WESTCHESTER RETIRED VOLUNTEER PROGRAM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; VOLUNTEERS VOLUNTEERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTIES (73%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (73%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY THOMAS R HODGE (91%); JAMES J HOGAN (87%); 



383 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Slow Growth in Grand Lists Signals Rise in Local Tax

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
AS Connecticut towns complete their budget preparations, municipal officials say they are facing some of the largest property-tax increases in years. With inflation running at 4 to 5 percent and state aid receding, municipal budgets will have to increase 15 to 25 percent just to maintain existing services, the officials say.
Normally, some of that increase would be taken up by an expansion of the tax base. But grand lists, which include each town's taxable property, have increased an average of only 3.1 percent, and in some towns they have gone down.
''All towns are looking at a combination of tax hikes and spending cuts,'' said the secretary of the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, George E. Hill, the Mayor of Mansfield, where the proposed budget would raise taxes 18 percent. ''I've heard of more than 25 municipalities that are already talking about layoffs.'' 
Of 37 towns that responded to a survey by the conference, 9 have budget proposals that would raise taxes 20 percent or more; only three would raise taxes less than 6 percent.
 
Affluent Towns Are Hard Hit
The grand list reflects of the wealth of a town. It includes houses, cars, business equipment, even horses. And because towns rely so heavily on the property tax to pay for local services, the list affects the tax rate. If a town's grand list increases 10 percent in one year, it will bring in 10 percent more revenue without raising the tax rate.
Figures submitted by towns to the State Office of Policy and Management show that grand lists in Connecticut increased an average of 6.1 percent in the 1989 fiscal year and 4.3 percent in fiscal 1990. But for the 1991 fiscal year, which begins July 1, grand lists are up only 3.1 percent.
Some of the more affluent towns are seeing the smallest increases. Redding's grand list is up only 1.6 percent, Norwalk's only 1.4 percent, New Canaan's and Westport's only 0.8 percent each.
Officials say the problem is that people are not building new homes or buying new cars and that businesses are afraid to invest in new equipment because of the uncertain economic climate. The research supervisor for the State Department of Housing, Sandy Bergin, said towns issued 12,607 permits for new housing in 1989, down 35.5 percent from 1988's 19,547, and down almost 60 percent from the 1986 peak of 30,163. ''We're projecting this year will be almost the same as 1989, pretty flat,'' Ms. Bergin said.''And I hope we're wrong.''
An economist with the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, Richard H. Matoon, said his group's quarterly survey has shown declining business confidence.
Business personal property - everything a business owns that is not land or buildings - made up only 11 percent of the property tax base in Connecticut in 1988, $310 million, but that was up 123 percent from five years earlier, and most towns were getting used to significant increases.
Last year at this time, the association's survey showed that 38 percent of Connecticut businesses said they were planning to increase their capital investment in the next 90 days, and 15 percent planned to decrease their spending. In the most recent survey, 26 percent said they planned an increase in capital spending, and 28 percent planned a decrease.
''Over the short term, it doesn't look particularly strong,'' Mr. Matoon said.
Gov. William A. O'Neill has proposed incentives to boost spending on manufacturing equipment, but Mr. Matoon said that might not be enough.
''Companies are not investing because of uncertainty about Connecticut's fiscal situation,'' Mr. Matoon said. ''No one is sure whether Connecticut is the place to be investing.''
But there are other problems facing grand lists. Litchfield's assessor, A. Walter Parsons, said the town is still feeling the effects of a tornado last summer. ''We had some people in town who lost some buildings, and we had to lower their assessments,'' Mr. Parsons said.
 
Lower Assessments Sought
In addition, so many people took advantage of the town's open-space ordinance, which allows tax bills on large tracts of land to be reduced by almost 85 percent, the town lost $5 million in real-estate assessment, he said.
The result has been that Litchfield's grand list declined by 0.2 percent.
The manager of assessment and taxation for the State Office of Policy and Management, Donald W. Zimbowski, said another problem is that as people realize the real-estate market is slowing down, they are going to the local tax-review boards to seek lower assessments.
The problem is so bad, Mr. Zimbowski said, that he had to give Greenwich and Naugatuck an extra year to complete their decennial revaluations, because so many property owners were filing appeals.
''Greenwich had more than 1,600 appeals, and Naugatuck had more than 1,000,'' Mr. Zimbowski said. ''That's a lot more than they could have expected, and there's no way they could get them done in time.''
 
Checking Every Corner
Naugatuck, though, had the largest increase in the state in its grand list, almost 10 percent, thanks in large part to a $13 million investment by Hershey-Peter Paul Inc. in the candy factory it bought in town a couple of years ago from Cadbury Schweppes, said the assessor, Wayne A. McAllister, who was appointed less than a year ago.
''Because I'm new to the job, I've been poking into every corner possible,'' Mr. McAllister said, which has helped turn up some new tax revenues.
''We're trying to be as thorough as possible,'' he said. Next year the town will start a business audit program, he said, to make sure corporations are declaring the full value of personal property.
But most towns are struggling with much smaller increases in their tax base, which means they will face large tax increases, particularly to cover shortfalls in state funding.
Mayor Hill said Mansfield's education budget will go up $1.3 million next year, in large part because of higher teacher salaries that state aid was supposed to help pay for. But the state initially offered only $15,000 more in aid for next year, and after intensive lobbying, it raised that to $118,000, still less than one-tenth what the town needs to cover the increase, Mr. Hill said.
 
Layoffs Ahead
For the last few years, most towns have delayed buying new police cars or fire engines and have put off major repairs, because money has been so tight. But for the fiscal year beginning on July 1, the problem will be even worse, he said.
''Once you've already made those cuts, the only thing you can do is cut programs,'' Mr. Hill said. ''And that means laying off people.''
He said most town officials he has talked with have told him they intend to eliminate one-third of their 1991 budget shortfall with spending cuts and make up the rest with tax hikes.
That has resulted in proposed tax increases like 26 percent in Sprague, 25 percent in Westbrook and Coventry, 24 percent in Bristol and 22 percent in Canton and Clinton.
''I don't know how many of those towns are going to get tax increases like that past their town council or town meeting,'' when the final budgets are adopted next month, Mr. Hill said. ''But towns are in a real bind this year. If they cut services, there's and outcry; and if they raise taxes, there's an outcry.''
''This year, though,it's going to have to be one or the other,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: TAXATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAX INCREASES (93%); BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MAYORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); 



384 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: THE CHURCH IS STILL RESTLESS

BYLINE: By MIRIAM DAVIDSON; Miriam Davidson, the author of ''Convictions of the Heart: Jim Corbett and the Sanctuary Movement,'' teaches journalism at the University of Arizona.

 BODY:

LIBERATION THEOLOGY AT THE CROSSROADS
Democracy or Revolution?
By Paul E. Sigmund.
257 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $29.95.
One of the liberation theologians quoted in this book, Father Ignacio Ellacuria, was among the six Jesuit priests massacred by a paramilitary death squad in El Salvador on Nov. 16. ''Liberation Theology at the Crossroads'' is dedicated to Ellacuria, whose death is but one in a long line of political murders of priests and nuns in Latin America over the past 20 years. These deaths make clear the price that church men and women pay when they decide to throw in their lot with the poor and oppressed. 
Liberation theology is a school of Roman Catholic thought that emerged in Latin America in the late 1960's. It teaches that a primary duty of the church must be to promote social and economic justice. In the beginning, writes Paul E. Sigmund, most prominent liberation theologians were overtly Marxist in their beliefs. They saw that the capitalist system had not caused Latin America to develop out of its dependence and poverty. Development had benefited only foreign business interests and the wealthy elites in Central and South America, not the poor majority. For that reason, they believed, revolutionary struggle to overthrow the capitalist system was the only way the suffering people of Latin America could improve their lot.
Twenty years later, after much turmoil and bloodshed, Latin America's poor are no better off. Mr. Sigmund writes that liberation theologians today retain anticapitalism as one of their themes, but increasingly reject armed revolution as the way to change things. He welcomes this move away from Marxism, but he cautions that many liberation theologians seem excessively enamored of the Cuban and Nicaraguan models. Mr. Sigmund, a professor of politics at Princeton University, argues that, through the democratic process, Latin American countries can have a well-fed, healthy and educated population, as well as political freedom and human rights. He seems to believe that a third way - between capitalist exploitation and Marxist totalitarianism - is possible. Yet it is that same ''third way'' that the liberation theologians previously rejected as a lie.
The situation in El Salvador is instructive. For 10 years the United States Government has called the Salvadoran Government a ''fledgling democracy.'' Yet none of the conditions that gave rise to the Marxist insurgency there - the starvation, landlessness and inequality - have been meaningfully addressed, and there has been no fundamental structural change in the rule of a bloodthirsty military dictatorship. Given this, it is not surprising that liberation theologians do not have much faith in the ability of capitalist democracy to reform itself. Father Ellacuria was one of several Central American liberation theologians who advocated revolutionary counterviolence to the poor and oppressed of El Salvador. Although this stance gave the Salvadoran military the excuse they needed to kill him, it is questionable whether he still would be alive had he advocated nonviolence - the Salvadoran Government brooks little dissent, nonviolent or otherwise.
Students of liberation theology will appreciate Mr. Sigmund's evenhanded exposition of the ideas of the liberation theologians, their disagreements with the Vatican and their responses to their North American critics. The general reader, however, will find this book extremely dry and theoretical. It contains little description of the social and political situation in Latin America that gave rise to liberation theology. Mr. Sigmund may also be guilty of one thing for which he criticizes the liberation theologians: not being sufficiently concrete in providing a prescription for a better society. He does admire the Basic Christian Communities movement. He views these small groups of peasants and church workers who discuss the meaning of the Bible in their daily lives as one way the liberation theologians have made specific improvements in the lives of their parishioners.
According to Mr. Sigmund, liberation theologians like Gustavo Gutierrez of Peru have in recent years come to recognize that there are other sources of oppression besides economics - race and sex, to name two. Yet the Latin American liberation theologians have not harshly criticized the Vatican for its stand on birth control and the status of women in the church. It appears that reproductive self-determination would go a long way toward real liberation (especially given the problems of overpopulation in the third world), but this issue has not been addressed by the liberation theologians. The liberation theologians of Latin America, for the most part, do not seem as bent on challenging the Vatican as do some priests from the developed North. As Leonardo Boff of Brazil wrote, ''The church is a reality of Faith that I assume. Theology is a product of reason that I discuss.''
At the end of ''Liberation Theology at the Crossroads,'' Mr. Sigmund ponders the future of liberation theology and argues again for dialogue and democracy. He poses some provocative questions for the liberation theologians. Although it is too late for Father Ellacuria, other liberation theologians will have to consider whether advocating violence begets democracy or only more violence.
 
IS CAPITALISM A SIN?
 The liberation theologians never did spell out in detail the mechanisms through which capitalism causes poverty. They did not resort directly to Marx's explanation - namely the alienation by the capitalist of surplus value. . . . More often the mere existence of large-scale poverty in Latin America was taken to prove that the system is unjust. There must be something wrong with a system that allows the majority of the people to live in squalor and poverty while a small minority enjoys all the luxuries of the modern world. . . .
Instead of directing their wrath at capitalism, the liberation theologians should - and are now beginning to - direct more attention to promoting a genuine participatory democracy that will work to restrain the excesses of economic power, whether capitalist or socialist. They should work to expose the behind-the-scenes manipulation and corruption that characterize both capitalist and socialist governments, and to assure that the voice of the poor is heard . . . rather than simply writing off all existing capitalist systems as structures of sin.
 
From ''Liberation Theology at the Crossroads.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LIBERATION THEOLOGY AT THE CROSSROADS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS RELIGION (97%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STARVATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); MURDER (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVIDSON, MIRIAM; SIGMUND, PAUL E PAUL E SIGMUND (94%); IGNACIO ELLACURIA (59%); 



385 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Health Insurers Increase Rates For the Elderly

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
The cost of private health insurance for the elderly is rising sharply, straining the budgets of millions of people who live on Social Security checks and fueling demands in Congress and the states for tighter regulation of this insurance.
The monthly cost rose at least 20 percent this year for many types of insurance intended to cover the gap between what the Federal Medicare program pays for medical services and what doctors and hospitals actually charge. Some premiums for such ''medigap'' insurance increased more than 50 percent, according to industry surveys and the General Accounting Office.
Critics of the insurance industry in Congress and spokesmen for consumer advocacy groups say many of the increases in medigap rates were exorbitant. But private insurers say they had to raise the rates, in part to pay for catastrophic illnesses that would have been covered under a 1988 law that was repealed in December. 
 
Surge in Spending
The increased costs are also a result of the continuing surge in spending on health care, and in some cases, the failure of insurers to raise rates enough in 1989 to cover higher medical costs, industry spokesmen say.
But many of the elderly, a majority of whom depend primarily on Social Security, say they are hard pressed to pay the extra costs.
''It's outrageous,'' said Mary Enos, a 79-year-old widow in New Bedford, Mass., who lives on ''a little over $500 a month.'' Her Blue Cross premium increased 84 percent to $71.30 a month, from $38.83. The $32.47 medigap increase buried the $18 cost-of-living increase in her Social Security check.
Medigap insurance is currently purchased by about 22 million of the 29 million Americans aged 65 or older.
Among the costs that medigap covers and Medicare does not are the first day in a hospital and all or part of the ''deductible'' that patients pay to doctors before Medicare insurance begins paying. Some medigap policies also cover prescription drugs, added charges by doctors and the cost of a hospital stay that extends beyond the Medicare limit.
 
People Without Coverage
Of the seven million elderly people who do not have medigap insurance, about 3.2 million of them with low incomes are eligible for state Medicaid benefits, but nearly four million rely on Medicare alone.
Because the 1988 law covering catastrophic illnesses was repealed, at least 17 million elderly ''will be doing worse,'' said Thomas Rice, a health economist at the University of North Carolina. They will have to pay higher premiums for medigap insurance, if they can afford it, or go without coverage for catastrophic illnesses and prescription drugs.
On the other hand, about 1.7 million elderly Americans with incomes of $37,000 or more, who would have had to pay an extra $800 each with their Federal taxes under the catastrophic-care law, are faring better now that the law has been repealed. Many of them are fully covered for such illnesses by former employers and do not need such coverage; others among them were reluctant to drop their own insurance when the law took effect, and were essentially paying twice for the same benefits.
 
Increasing Costs
But even people with medigap policies must often pay part of their doctor, hospital and prescription-drug charges, which have been increasing faster than the overall inflation rate.
The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, a group of 70 mainly nonprofit plans with 8.5 million medigap policyholders, said premiums were up 24 percent on average for 1990 after increasing 8 percent in 1989. The Prudential Insurance Company of America, which sells medigap insurance to three million members of the American Association of Retired Persons, raised its medigap rates by 40 percent on average in 1989 and plans a 17 percent increase in July. Blue Cross-Blue Shield and Prudential are by far the largest medigap insurers.
The General Accounting Office, a research arm of Congress, said the average monthly cost to elderly policyholders is now $69.96, or about $840 a year, compared with $58.52, or $702, in 1989, an increase of 20 percent.
One of the steepest increases was in Massachusetts, where Blue Cross-Blue Shield raised monthly premiums 67 percent to $85.87 for its most widely purchased medigap policy. (Mrs. Enos's $71.30 policy provides fewer benefits.) 'I Was Very Shocked'
In Wisconsin, Frances Hels, 74, a retired executive secretary in Waterford, is also struggling with a medigap increase. ''I was very shocked at the first of the year to get a raise of about $20 a month to $90.33,'' she said. Mrs. Hels, a widow, lives on ''a very small pension and mainly Social Security.''
The G.A.O. said about half the added medigap charges could be attributed to the repeal of the catastrophic-care law.
In Massachusetts, Blue Cross attributed 38 to 41 percent of its increases to the Medicare pullback. Thirty-two percent was for higher health-care costs, especially for prescription drugs, and increased use of health services, said Susan M. Leahy, a Blue Cross spokeswoman. The insurer said it also had to make up for medigap losses in 1989.
In New York, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield has just raised monthly medigap rates 29 percent, to $45.15, after two years at $35. John Kelly, a spokesman for Empire Blue Cross, said two-thirds of the increase was to replace benefits in the repealed law.
 
Increases Criticized
Advocates for the elderly and consumers and their supporters in Congress criticized the increases.
''In many instances the increases are far in excess of what can be justified,'' said Representive Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
Gail Shearer, manager of policy analysis for Consumers Union, a group that advocates more Federal regulation, said: ''Medigap prices seem to go up whether Medicare benefits expand or contract. Consumers are confused.''
Most states are already revising laws and procedures regulating medigap insurance. Congress is expected to take up several bills this session that would increase Federal supervision of medigap insurance, a $16 billion business. Most states require that insurers must pay out 60 percent of medical-insurance premiums for individual medigap policyholders and 75 percent of the premiums for group medigap policyholders. The remainder may go to marketing and administrative costs, profits and to make up for past losses, commercial insurers say.
Among the bills being prepared or already introduced in Congress are ones that would require public hearings and a review before states approve medigap increases. The bills would also raise the percentages of revenues that must be paid out in benefits and standardize descriptions of competing medigap policies so purchasers can better compare them.
 
Insurance Counseling
A bill sponsored by Senator David Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, would help states to establish insurance counseling for the elderly in programs like those operating in California and North Carolina. Other proposals would prohibit selling medigap policies that duplicate each other or overlap. Insurers could be punished if their agents did not check on the existing coverage of elderly consumers and sold them unneeded policies.
''Our feeling is that Congress is going to do something this year,'' said Alan K. Richards, a Washington lawyer with the Health Insurance Association of America, an insurer group, which wants the states to remain in control of insurance regulation.
A stronger Federal regulatory role is supported by both the American Association of Retired Persons, which fought unsuccessfully to preserve the catastrophic-care law last year, and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, which helped defeat it.
 
State Requirements
Only a handful of states review requests for medigap rate increases; most rely on the standard requirements governing how much of the premiums must be eventually paid out for medical care. Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, said the payout minimums should be raised to 70 percent and 85 percent.
But Alan P. Spielman, a government-relations director with Blue Cross, said many plans were already paying out 90 percent of medigap premiums.
Earl R. Pomeroy, president of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, said his group would meet Tuesday to consider changes to make it easier to compare competing medigap policies. Massachusetts, Wisconsin and Minnesota already require standard language and formats.
Seven states have adopted other consumer protection recommendations approved last year by the state commissioners group. Similar rules are under consideration in 30 states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (67%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CONSUMER PROTECTION; RATES; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; AGED; STATES (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY MEDICARE (91%); INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); AGING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); COST OF LIVING (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



386 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9

 
Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney has rebuffed a suggestion by the Soviet Union that the Bush Administration's new strategic arms proposal be broadened to include constraints on sea-based missiles. Page A1

 
The Army is proposing increased cuts in troops
 A14

 
The K.G.B. headquarters in Yerevan, the capital of the Armenian republic, was attacked by about 1,000 protesters late Saturday, the official Soviet press agency said. One man was killed in the violence. A8

 
Poles celebrated their first Easter under democracy after 45 years of Communist rule, and the mood seemed more a celebration than a protest. A1 
 
 
Pope John Paul says a prayer for Lithuania's success
 A8

 
In Old Jerusalem, Christians and Muslims protest A3

 
The plan to remove internal borders in the European Community after 1992, long viewed as the most important symbol of new European unity, is being threatened by disagreements over how to deal with migration, asylum, drugs and terrorism. A9

 
Economic discontent in China is serving as a subtle, subversive political force. Diplomats and economic analysts doubt this will propel the Chinese masses onto the streets soon, but the authorities seem nervous. A1
 
Beijing has been excluded by the U.S. from an international conference on air pollution and climatic change, even though the Chinese burn more industrial coal than any other country, officials said. B7

 
A U.N. panel of scientists sees substantial warming of Earth
 B7

 
The Nepal Parliament was dissolved by King Birendra after a weekend of increasingly angry protests over the pace of democratic change. A1

 
Bomb near Hindu temple kills 5 in Northern India
 A6

 
Peru's novelist turned politician, Maria Vargas Llosa, will announce today whether he will stay in the presidential race. His candidacy has been crippled by a lack of support from millions of slumdwellers. A3

 
Physician from Mexico arrested in drug agent slaying
 A2

 
National A10-15, B7-8

 
Many senators seeking re-election this year are financing their campaigns largely with donations from outside their home states. That is a profound change from the traditional practice of relying on contributions from constituents. A1

 
The cost of private health insurance for the elderly is rising sharply, straining the budgets of millions of people who live on Social Security checks and fueling demands for tighter regulation of this insurance.
 A1

 
U.S. to study ways to combat frailty among the elderly
 A15

 
A major extension of antitrust laws is being considered by the Administration. The extension would strike at American subsidiaries of foreign companies that are found to engage in price-fixing and other anticompetitive practices in their home markets. D1

 
The poverty rate for young children is rising in the United States, an analysis of Federal population figures shows. Nearly one of every four children under 6 in the nation is poor, the study found. A10

 
The plentiful and cheap water that made the American West and Southwest rich, powerful and populous has now turned scarce and costly to find. A fourth straight year of drought has now descended on the region. B8
 
Veteran of Earth Day 1970 looks to a new world
 B8

 
Fuel leak at shelters is reported
 B7

 
The sexually oriented businesses that are banned in Cincinnati can be found across the river in Newport, Ky., and other towns in a region of Kentucky that once was known as ''Cincinnati's playground.'' A12

 
Profits for Mapplethorpe estate
 C13

 
A tiny newspaper in North Carolina, The Washington Daily News, owes its Pulitzer Prize for distinguished public service to its editor's curiosity, combined with relentless digging by two of his reporters. A10

 
Aliens who want to stay in the U.S. but do not have the appropriate papers are trying to take advantage of openings in the legalization program that resulted from court rulings. The issue has led to allegations of fraud. A13

 
Women who undergo bypass surgery for heart disease are much sicker and slightly older than men who do, a study says. The finding might explain why those women were more likely to die as a result. A15

 
Kidney peril found in the pain reliever Ibuprofen
 A11

 
Special schools for teaching are proposed
 A12

 
Indiana journal: In a court for youth, judgment by peers
 A10

 
Regional B1-6

 
The busiest precinct for homicide in New York is the 34th, at Broadway and 183d Street, which last year had 99 of the record total of 1,905 killings in the city. This year the Police Department's statistics for the precinct are running well ahead of that. B1

 
A livery cab driver was shot to death Saturday night in the Fordham section of the Bronx. Investigators said the killing, the fifth of a livery cab driver in five weeks, was not connected to the previous incidents. B1

 
Livery car companies grew where there were few cabs
 B4

 
The Bensonhurst murder trial begins today. Difficulties with witnesses and other frustrations have left the prosecution with a weakened case and a broad swath of unanswered questions that are certain to be exploited by the defense. B1

 
Religious leaders in Teaneck, N.J., grappled with how to reconcile the celebration and ritual surrounding Easter and Passover with the anguish and confusion their parishioners have experienced in the aftermath of the fatal shooting there. B1

 
Renovators running out of abandoned buildings
 B5

 
Falling revenues force counties to trim services
 B2

 
Weather Service runs into opposition to L.I. radar plan
 B3

 
Business Digest D1

 
SportsMonday

 
Baseball: Yankee bullpen does it all C3

 
Expos top Mets C4

 
Reds go to 5-0 C4

 
Column: Berkow on baseball
 C4

 
Basketball: Celtics defeat Knicks C11

 
Boxing: Unshowy style carries Nunn C2

 
Football: How free are free agents? C1

 
Golf: Player wins PGA Seniors Championship C5

 
Hockey: Capitals eliminate Devils C1

 
Patrick fills Leetch's skates C11

 
Features: SportsWorld Specials
 C2

 
Question Box C4

 
Marathon: Olympic champion taking on Boston C8

 
Racing: Closing in on D-Day C7

 
Tennis: Graf captures title C5

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Running the other endowment C13

 
A Soviet play in America C13

 
Theater: ''Day Trips'' C15

 
Music: ''Siegfried'' at the Met C14

 
Joe Arroyo at the Palladium C15

 
Word and Image
 
The Westies' rise and fall
 C17

 
TV and the world's strife
 C16

 
''Shannon's Deal,'' NBC C18

 
Obituaries D10-11

 
Greta Garbo died in New York City. The enigmatic and elusive star of some of Hollywood's most memorable romantic movies of the 1930's and a 50-year focus of curiosity and myth, Miss Garbo was 84 years old. A1

 
Spark M. Matsunaga, Senator of Hawaii
 D10

 
Sabicas, guitarist
 D10

 
Harold T. Fuerst, led preventable disease bureau
 D10

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A18

 
Europe's new home
 
The New York debt, unrolled
 
Killing the messenger
 
Topics: Truth in budgeting
 
Letters A18

 
Tom Wicker: Bush and the blacks A19

 
William Safire: Earth Day's ''planetism'' A19

 
Howard Husock: Housing the poor - without subsidies A19

 
Alan Tonelson: Foreign policy by referendum A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARMENIA (92%); INDIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PERU (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); 

STATE: NORTH INDIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (76%); EASTER SEASON (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); MEDICARE (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); HOMICIDE (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); CLIMATOLOGY (65%); CHILDREN (65%); CLIMATE CHANGE (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); AIR POLLUTION (65%); AGING (64%); SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); CARTELS (63%); SLUM DWELLINGS (62%); POVERTY RATES (60%); CHILD POVERTY (60%); PRICE FIXING (60%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%); 



387 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Rate Is Up for the Very Young

BYLINE: By J. C. BARDEN

 BODY:
At a time when poverty is on the decline among all other age groups in the United States, the poverty rate for children under 6 years of age is rising, an analysis of Federal population figures shows.
Nearly one of every four children under 6 in the nation is poor, says a report being released today by a research center at Columbia University. The report cites these reasons: a growing number of single teen-age mothers; a surprising number of young, two-parent families; a growing number of jobs for which the young parents are not qualified, and a shortage of affordable day care for young parents who could get low-paying jobs.
Starting life poor often relegates a child to a lifetime of struggle and poverty, the report said, adding, ''Early childhood experiences contribute to poor children's high rates of school failures, dropout, delinquency, early childbearing and adult poverty.'' 
The research group, the National Center for Children in Poverty, is affiliated with Columbia University's School of Public Health. Its analysis is the first statistical profile devoted exclusively to children under 6 who are living in poverty.
 
Income Support Urged
To break the poverty cycle, the report recommended government income support for all employed parents and assured child support payments for single parents; community child care centers; the expansion of Head Start and other preschool programs to serve all children of low-income families, and the expansion of them to full-day, year-round programs; health insurance coverage for all poor families, and the preparation of poor young adults for employment in more technically demanding jobs.
The report did not suggest where the money for these programs would come from.
Judith E. Jones, director of the center, said in the report that part of the fault was the nation's policy of responding to crises rather than preventing them. ''The concept of a social insurance system for all families and children, which is the foundation of national policy in many industrialized nations, does not guide our thinking or our actions,'' she said.
''We pay welfare costs for teen-age mothers rather than the costs of preventive services, education and decent jobs and wages for them and their partners,'' Ms. Jones said. ''We pay the high costs of neonatal intensive care for infants rather than offering quality low-cost prenatal care for their mothers. It is this crisis orientation that is costly, and while many of our social initiatives do work, only a portion of the families eligible for some services actually receive them.''
 
Report Called a Crucial Step
Paul Smith, director of research for the Children's Defense Fund, an advocacy group based in Washington, called the report a crucial step in the effort to stem poverty among the nation's youngest poor.
''This takes us beyond the point of knowing we've got a problem, which the Census Bureau told us,'' Mr. Smith said, ''and added information never available that lets us begin to ask what kind of problem it is and what we might consider doing about it.''
In a look at poverty over the last two decades among the very young, the center found that the rate of children under 6 who live under the poverty line grew by about a third, to 23 percent in 1987 from 17 percent in 1968.
The figures were based on unpublished data from the Census Bureau and other sources; 1987 was the last year for which figures were available when the data in the report were analyzed. In 1987 the poverty line was $11,611 for a family of four.
 
Growth Continued in 1988
In interviews, officials at the center said an examination of statistics available since the report was completed shows that this growth continued in 1988, with 5.03 million children under 6 living in poverty as against 4.98 million in 1987, an increase of 1 percent.
Over the last 20 years, the poverty growth rate for children under 6 has been several percentage points higher than that of any other age group, said William Scarbrough, associate director of the center, and dramatically higher than the overall poverty rate.
In the same period, from 1968 to 1987, the overall rate increased by 5.5 percent, to 13.5 percent in 1987, when 32.5 million people lived in poverty.
The breakdown on other age groups living in poverty in 1987 was 19 percent for those 6 through 17, 11 percent for those 18 through 64 and 12 percent for those 65 and over, the report said.
Mr. Scarbrough said census data for 1988 put the number of older children living in poverty, those 6 through 17, at 7.6 million, a drop of 7 percent from the year before.
 
Decline in Poverty Since 1983
Since 1983, when the rate of poor people reached a high level because of a recession and changes in government policies, poverty among all groups has declined, but the drop has been less for children under 6, the report said.
Other major findings in the report, ''A Statistical Profile of Our Poorest Young Citizens,'' include these:
* Only 28 percent of the children lived in families that relied solely on public assistance.
* Thirty-eight percent of the children lived in families with two married adults, and most of these children had at least one parent who was employed full or part time.
* Minority children living with two parents were more than twice as likely to be poor as white children living with two parents.
 
Single Teen-Age Parents
The report said, ''Children born outside of marriage who grow up with single mothers are likely to be poor for most or all of their childhood.'' And it said that even though the teen-age birthrate had declined from 1960 through 1986, the proportion of unmarried teen-agers who have children rose sharply. In 1960, 15 percent of all teen-agers giving birth were unmarried; in 1986, the figure was 61 percent.
When a single teen-ager has a baby, it usually means an end to the mother's formal education, the study said, limiting her ability to find a job that will pay enough to support her family.
A minimum-wage job paid only 60 percent of what it would take to break the poverty line in 1987, the report said. It added that although the minimum wage rose in April to $3.80 an hour from $3.35, the difference ''is not enough to have a significant impact on poverty rates.''
Living nearly in poverty can sometimes be just as difficult for some families as well, the report said, because such families are ineligible for various forms of noncash assistance, or sometimes are unaware such assistance is available. The report said 2.7 million children under 6 live nearly in poverty.
The center was assisted in the study by Child Trends Inc., a nonprofit research group in Washington. The purpose of the center, which was established a little more than a year ago with the aid of grants from the Ford Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation, is to report on issues important to groups working for the welfare of children.
Copies of the report are available from the center at 154 Haven Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10032, for $12.95 ($9.95 plus postage and handling).

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the amount of people living below the poverty line. (source: Census Bureau, National Center for Children in Poverty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (64%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; NATIONAL CENTER FOR CHILDREN IN POVERTY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH POOR POPULATION (93%); CHILD POVERTY (92%); POVERTY RATES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); 

PERSON: BARDEN, J C SIR GEORGE YOUNG (92%); 



388 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Special Schools Proposed Where Teachers Could Learn by Teaching

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
Administrators of America's leading education schools are proposing a radical redesign of teacher education, in which universities and public schools would join forces to train teachers the way medical schools use hospitals to train doctors.
In a report issued yesterday, the group envisioned a national network of ''professional development schools.'' These would be public elementary and high schools, where university professors and education students would work with teachers and administrators to design curriculums, conduct research projects, train new teachers and rejuvenate experienced teachers.
While the group expects many versions of these schools, the report says all should share several principles: teaching methods that go beyond rote memorization to promote critical thinking; helping students of all ethnic and economic backgrounds to succeed; flexible organizational structures that involve parents, social service agencies and local communities; lifelong learning for teachers as well as students, and research that draws on the needs of the public school and may improve conditions there. 
The proposals were made in a report, ''Tomorrow's Schools: Principles for the Design of Professional Development Schools,'' by a coalition of nearly 100 universities interested in improving teacher education. The group's first report, in 1986, rocked education circles by calling for tough new certification tests for teachers and an end to undergraduate degrees in education.
 
Relating Theory to Practice
Some other teacher education experts said that the idea of professional development schools was not new and that several variants already existed. The report's contribution, they said, was to define common principles for such schools, pledge to establish them in major research universities and establish a nationwide network. These experts added that the group had set itself a formidable task.
The model for a professional development school would be a teaching hospital, where there would be a longterm institutional relationship between a university and a public school that allowed both sides to make changes in curriculum and practices to train teachers better. The idea is to integrate theory and practice. In the current student teacher system, a future teacher's brief stint in a classroom may bear little resemblance to what he or she has been learning in college.
The report ''is a very valuable contribution to redefining the relationship between universities and schools,'' said David G. Imig, executive director of the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, which includes many of the universities that produced the report. ''I think it's going to be enormously difficult to do. In effect, you're bringing together two very different kinds of cultures: the culture of the university and of schools. Can you in fact create virtually new kinds of institutions in a society that's accustomed to seeing teacher education done one way and teaching in schools another?''
 
'Laboratory Schools' Declined
Many graduate schools of education now have few links with public schools and have trouble placing their graduates as student teachers, said Judith E. Lanier, dean of education at Michigan State University and president of the group that produced the report. At one time, many ran ''laboratory schools,'' usually private elementary and high schools on university campuses. Although some of these schools still thrive, many declined in the face of complaints that they were too elitist and detached from the real world of public schools. Professional development schools would be different, Professor Lanier said, because they would be in public schools and would combine education and research.
Professor Lanier has a grant to establish professional development schools in Michigan. He said a similar effort was under way in Louisville, Ky., and programs were beginning at the University of Missouri and the University of Albuquerque, N.M., among others.
Making professional development schools work, said the report and several professors who have tried to establish such schools, means completely changing the way most traditional graduate schools of education operate: granting professors tenure for practical work in the classroom as well as research, and using the knowledge gained in the public schools to change courses not only in education departments, but also in academic departments that have traditionally looked down on education schools. For example, to better train elementary school teachers in science, universities could develop courses on the undergraduate level that can reach nonscientists.
The most difficult task is forging a relationship of equality between public schools and universities, so that decision making is shared, said Philip Schlechty, who has established public school-university partnerships in Louisville, and Kenneth Palmer, who is coordinating similar efforts in San Luis Obispo, Calif.
 
Research Emphasis Disputed
''We're engaged in politics,'' said Mr. Palmer, who is a professor at California State Polytechnic University. He disputes the report's emphasis on including research on professional development schools. ''I don't say research is not important, but it's different from a bunch of deans at research institutions talking about how teacher education ought to be done. That's interesting, but I don't really have time. I've got to move this university to address putting teachers in schools.''
Mr. Schlechty said that for the professional development schools to be more successful than laboratory schools, they need to be in the poorest communities. ''They need to be ordinary schools that take on extraordinary qualities,'' he said. ''Training hospitals were quite often located in places where there were a lot of indigents.''
The report endorsed that idea. The point of establishing professional development schools, it said, is to insure that education improvements spread beyond a few model schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; RESEARCH TEACHING & TEACHERS (98%); TEACHER EDUCATION (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT TEACHERS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



389 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: How to End Tax Welfare for the Wealthy;
Social Security Juggling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is unfortunate that just when there seemed to be agreement that Social Security should be removed from deficit calculations, Representative Dan Rostenkowski's proposal puts Social Security back on the table for cuts. Even those who disagreed with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's proposal to cut Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes conceded that the Social Security trust funds are being used to mask, but not reduce, the deficit.
Nevertheless, Representative Rostenkowski has suggested a one-year elimination of the Social Security inflation adjustment, and a number of leaders and institutions have lauded him for courage. But, as was made clear in the debate over the Moynihan proposal, the billions ''borrowed'' from the trust funds now and secured with Government bonds must be repaid to the fund later by the Government and represent a growing debt -even though that ''loan'' is not reflected as part of the deficit. 
While issuing bonds (promises to pay later) has been used to finance Social Security in the past, there is a well-founded concern that the amounts borrowed from the trust funds are becoming so large as to make tax increases on future generations almost inevitable. Cutting the Social Security inflation adjustment, therefore, simply means there is more money in the fund to be borrowed for the short-term illusion of reducing the deficit and exacerbates the long-term problem.
For the illusion of reducing the deficit through an inflation adjustment cut, more than 500,000 low-income elderly people will fall below the poverty line next year.
The elderly have already seen cuts of billions of dollars to Medicare. That's a sacrifice in money and -even more precious - in health. The elderly, therefore, are as motivated as anyone to see a reduction in the deficit - but let's leave Social Security alone.
 
LAWRENCE T. SMEDLEY
Executive Director
National Council of Senior Citizens
 Washington, March 26, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); BONDS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (73%); 



390 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: How to End Tax Welfare for the Wealthy;
Return to Old I.R.A.'s

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In 1980 our net national savings rate was 6.1 percent of gross domestic product, whereas in 1986 it was only 2.4 percent. In contrast, the corresponding rates from Japan were 11.3 percent in 1980 and 12.9 percent in 1986. (Note, however, that the concept of ''savings'' is not precise and can differ between countries.) As bad as our savings rate was, it would have been worse if not for tax-deductible individual retirement accounts, which in 1986 accounted for $38.2 billion (38 percent of our total national savings).
Notwithstanding public opinion and the advice of pundits, Congress in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 drastically changed the ground rules for I.R.A.'s. The net result has been that only some $13.5 billion went into tax-deductible I.R.A.'s in 1987.
President Bush's suggested remedy is no remedy at all. Both the ''family savings account'' and the ''restructuring of I.R.A.'s'' will merely result in transferring assets from non-tax-deferred investments to tax-deferred ones.
What is clearly needed is a return to the immensely popular pre-1986 I.R.A., which created new savings by allowing tax deductions for money put into I.R.A.'s. I.R.A.'s are a near-perfect tool for a free-enterprise society, because they create self-reliance by encouraging people to provide for their financial future, while at the same time providing desperately needed capital to the free-enterprise system.
 
ROBERT MYERS
THOMAS WOLFF
Vernon, Conn., March 26, 1990
 The writers are, respectively, former chief actuary, Social Security Administration (1947-70), and past president, National Association of Life Underwriters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SAVINGS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA); UNITED STATES ECONOMY PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (63%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WOLFF, THOMAS GEORGE W BUSH (52%); ROBERT J MYERS (52%); 



391 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Soviet Anti-Semitism Survey Shows Bias

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Survey in Moscow Sees a High Level of Anti-Jewish Feeling'' (news article, March 30) shows the disturbing prejudices not only of Muscovites but also of the survey's designers.
The survey seems to validate prejudices as it seeks to quantify them. For example, by asking whether a respondent agrees that ''More than any other group in society, it is the Jews who are responsible for the problems the Soviet Union is experiencing today,'' the survey validates the idea that distinct religious, ethnic or racial groups bear responsibility for the economic and sociopolitical problems of a multiethnic nation. 
When the survey asks if a respondent agrees that ''when it comes to choosing between people and money, Jews will choose money,'' it validates the notion that all Jews act one way or another, that there is something inherent about Jewishness that determines behavior.
I wonder, also, whether by offering respondents, among other choices, the chance to agree that, in the Soviet population, ''only some are anti-Jewish,'' the word ''only'' makes a certain amount of anti-Semitism acceptable, offering the assessment as a compromise more flattering than the reported Soviet opinion of 17 percent that ''most people are anti-Jewish.''
I am troubled that the survey did not give Muscovites the chance to agree that Jews are neither more nor less responsible for Soviet problems than any other group. I would have also been pleased to see Muscovites asked if it was right to divide their nation into ethnic and religious groups when seeking to cast blame for the country's worries.
Even if only a tiny minority had shown themselves to be tolerant in their response to these statements, to include such statements would have at least given Muscovites the chance to prove themselves more broad-minded than they are perhaps expected to be; and in the bargain, the citizens of Moscow would have been offered a model of real tolerance to think about.
 
PETER S. TEMES
New York, April 1, 1990
 The writer is an instructor in logic and rhetoric at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MOSCOW (USSR)

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RELIGION (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICS (63%); 



392 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Earth Day's 'Planetism'

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: HARPERS FERRY, W. Va

 BODY:
In celebration of the 20th recycling of Earth Day, the folk musician Glen McClure will perform a concert in Rochester on an instrument made entirely of garbage.
He won't be alone. Around the world, ecological activists will join publicity-hungry celebrities and tie-in-conscious corporations to whoop it up for the salvation of the planet. In Germany, 10,000 trees will be planted along the site of the Berlin wall; in Japan, a campaign will be launched against the use of wooden chopsticks. 
In 1969, when this environmental brainchild of Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson's hove into view, the Nixon White House embraced it. Why not? Conservation, as the organized love of nature was previously called, was a Teddy Roosevelt crusade, and besides, it was good to have the fierce energy of young, white, elitist demonstrators channeled into other than anti-war protests.
Now the day has become a week (Tuesday is Recycling Day, Friday Toxics Information Day), and morning-show hosts are poised to deluge their audiences with guests fluent in tech-bashing greenspeak.
Politicians mired in peace and prosperity are seeking a new source of voter interest aboard this new Motherhood Express. Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, who has genuine anti-pollution credentials, dropped by a few months ago to deliver an impressive briefing on the danger of carbon dioxide; Jesse Jackson is now trying to steal the issue from him, on the dubious theory that poor neighborhoods become waste disposal dumps.
For Republicans, George Bush has nicely split the political difference between concern and cost: we are for clean air and water, but not against necessary industries that pollute a little and employ a lot. ''Think globally and act locally,'' he advises; better to clean up a single eyesore than to curse the dark forces of pollution.
We are all environmentalists now, but we are not all planetists. I sit here in West Virginia on weekends watching the white-water rafters shoot the rapids on the Shenandoah River, and I haul my garbage back to Washington, where it seems to belong; my mountain retreat is no Walden, but nature has its pleasures and deserves respect.
A planetist, on the other hand, puts the Earth ahead of the earthlings -places society's responsibility for the individual ahead of the individual's responsibility for himself.
The planetist sees the world whole, as if from space; this ultimate outsider discerns global danger with great certainty and demands supranational solutions at any cost to avert nothing less than extinction.
Just in time for Earth Day's publicity extravaganza, I submit this guide for pro-earthling non-planetism: 1. First, do no harm. When planetism takes global warming as an article of faith, but NASA's latest scientific study refutes it, the layman should err on the side of caution. If it doesn't trigger a depression, ease up on the carbon dioxide. 2. Demand to see the whole agenda. Before joining the Greens or making ecology your switcher issue, call for truth in activism: are we all supposed to return to a simpler life? What of those who like crowded cities, or dig glitz? Is the third world to be denied development or be subsidized to stay backward and pure? 3. Love the activist, hate the power-grabber. The Earth Day organizers have done much good, and saw a legitimate health concern before most of us did. But watch out for the bureaucratization of the goo-goos, in the form of a ''Green Seal'' of approval, to force companies to obey standards set by unelected overseers. 4. Press the ''eco-eco effect.'' Ecology and economics go hand in hand; instead of railing against greedy corporations or too-protective unions, or complaining about a ''license to pollute,'' use economic incentives to clean the air and water. People pollute because it is cheap and easy; by using tax policy to make it expensive and hard, we will change behavior the productive way. 5. Put a higher value on growth than on limitation. Malthus was mistaken; the world can produce and then feed and shelter billions of human beings.
We are not a race blindly bent on suicide by mindless self-strangulation; on this peculiarly blessed planet, we are among the sperm cells and ova of the universe - and in a century or two, our descendants will be coordinating our celebration with the colonists whooping it up for Mars Day and Venus Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%); EARTH (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); MUSIC (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (67%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM JESSE JACKSON (57%); AL GORE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 



393 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Bush and the Blacks

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
Commenting on the strange popularity of President Bush among blacks, Prof. Lawrence Bobo of the University of Wisconsin argued that Mr. Bush ''hasn't done anything seriously damaging of the sort that seemed to happen repeatedly'' under Ronald Reagan.
Ruby Tilghman, an unemployed home health care worker in West Philadelphia, takes a more critical attitude toward the President. In her view, on ''the real big important issues where it affects the minorities, he's doing it in a roundabout way where it doesn't look like he's against us, but he is.''
Wicker's Keen Political Insight Award goes to Ms. Tilghman. Both she and Mr. Bobo were interviewed for a New York Times/CBS News Poll that found a remarkable 56 percent of 403 black respondents approving Mr. Bush's performance in office. That makes him the first Republican President since Dwight Eisenhower to score above 50 percent among blacks; their approval may be tentative and lukewarm but they've given black-majority approval to Mr. Bush in four consecutive Times/CBS Polls. 
These scores baffle conventional political wisdom. Not only have blacks for years been the most reliable element of the Democratic Party; not only does Mr. Bush give his highest priority to retaining the support of the Republican right wing that spurns minorities and shaped the Reagan Administration; the President also allowed himself to benefit, in his 1988 campaign, from the Willie Horton ad that evoked white racial fears.
On minority issues, moreover, as on education, Ruby Tilghman has Mr. Bush pegged: he is trying to have it both ways. He proclaims himself ''the education President'' but reduces Federal money for education, not a small matter for minorities. He tells a mostly black audience he'll welcome the first black President -while his Attorney General says Mr. Bush will veto this year's most needed civil rights bill.
It's addressed to the Rehnquist Court's radical Ward's Cove decision overturning established law dating to 1971 and an opinion written by Warren Burger. Ward's Cove assigned the burden of proof to an employee who charged an employer with discriminatory hiring and employment practices. Chief Justice Burger, in keeping with overall legal custom, had placed the burden on the party best able to show that the procedures at issue were fair and necessary -obviously, the employer.
The Democratic Congress is now considering a bill to overrule Ward's Cove and return civil rights law to the 1971 standard. But Mr. Bush threatens to veto the bill if it passes. In non-legal terms, he threatens to make it easier for employers to discriminate and harder for employees (often members of minority groups) to get relief in court.
Meanwhile, quietly but steadily, the President follows the Reagan path in naming ideological Federal judges. The President's aim, his legal counsel told Neil Lewis of The Times, is ''very much the same'' as Mr. Reagan's -''to shift the courts in a more conservative direction.''
Conservative and liberal court watchers agree that Mr. Bush's 46 appointments so far have fulfilled that aim, with dozens more to come. The appointees' records suggest that most - like the Rehnquist Court -will require civil rights and minority-group plaintiffs to meet tough standards, and will take a more punitive attitude toward criminal defendants (who are, again, often members of minority groups).
Three Rehnquist Court Justices, all more liberal than the majority, are over 80; so Mr. Bush may well be able to shape that Court even further in the Reagan mold. If he replaces Thurgood Marshall, the Court's only black, he's expected to name Clarence Thomas, a black foe of affirmative action, whom he's already put on the important D.C. Court of Appeals.
Such specific issues are not always the prime influence on political views, white or black. The Times/CBS News Poll found, for instance, that blacks' approval of Mr. Bush was based partly on black resentment of a Democratic Party that they think takes them for granted. That's food for thought for Democrats who want to move the party rightward ''to the center.''
Blacks, significantly, seem to expect little of Mr. Bush; sadly, that may reflect a more general voters' attitude toward American politics. ''He hasn't gotten us into any major wars and the economy hasn't completely fallen through,'' Joanne Clark, a black schoolteacher from New Jersey, told the poll takers. ''He's O.K. as long as he doesn't do anything really negative.''
Or, as many Americans seem to think: ''He's O.K. as long as he doesn't do anything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (90%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS (IN US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); BURDENS OF PROOF (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); LAWYERS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



394 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Falling Revenues and Rising Costs Force Counties to Trim More Services

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

 BODY:
Rockland County was surprised to discover recently that it was the only jurisdiction in the lower Hudson River Valley still operating patrol boats, at an annual cost of $300,000. Now the service is being ended, County Executive John Grant said, ''because we're looking everywhere to save money.''
In Suffolk County, bills are being paid every two weeks now, instead of twice a week, saving $300,000 a year. Likewise, Westchester County is studying whether to turn its modern medical center over to an authority, and Nassau County is thinking of consolidating its health services.
Atlantic County in New Jersey has started to use recycled asphalt and concrete to cut the costs of road programs. In Bergen County, its Executive, William McDowell, said, ''We've been talking to Essex and Hudson Counties about a regional solution to the garbage problem.'' 
In these days of rising costs, falling revenues and shrinking subsidies, no government service is seen as too small to escape the scrutiny of county officials. They are looking beyond traditional cost-cutting techniques, like layoffs and hiring freezes, to balance their budgets.
 
Duties Rise but Aid Falls
Ordered to operate welfare programs, jails, bus systems and scores of other services, the counties are facing difficult times as they seek to cope with services mandated in state capitals and in Washington.
County officials say their burdens are growing heavier faster because the Federal and state governments continue to add county obligations while reducing the subsidies that once covered their costs.
Federal and state officials say there is not enough money to continue their share of the services. The reductions, usually made without fanfare, must then be made up by the counties.
John P. Thomas, executive director of the National Association of Counties, said, ''Washington keeps calling for improvements but its policy is to have local and state governments pay for them.'' He said a new Bush Administration proposal to improve transportation systems was typical: ''They mandate the changes, but we end up paying for them.''
''We see it getting worse and worse,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''Any service you mention - health care, transportation, the environment - is constantly being improved, but they tell the counties to pay for the new standards.''
 
Babylon Sweeps County Roads
This, in turn, is forcing county officials to scrutinize spending with unusual care, while finding new ways to cut costs. Some methods represent greater scrutiny by desperate administrators; some seem quite innovative.
The Suffolk County Executive, Patrick G. Halpin, said, ''We're entering arrangements with municipalities, such as the Town of Babylon, to have it sweep the 35 miles of county roads in its jurisdiction.'' He said it was a new source of income for the town, ''and the county doesn't have to go out and buy a $150,000 sweeper.''
He spoke of an education and transportation program for handicapped children, a mandated service that Mr. Halpin said ''has been rising at three times the rate of inflation.'' In Suffolk, he said, ''we were spending $80 million a year to educate 4,000 kids, about $20,000 a child.''
''In the past, the county just paid the bill, but last year we hired teams of professionals who audited every program,'' Mr. Halpin said, indicating that his office suspected fraud in some cases. ''Some were referred to the District Attorney's office; others were simply better controlled. We found that Family Court was rubber-stamping assignments made by the families, who were selecting schools of their choice.''
 
Westchester Looks at Workfare
In Westchester, County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke described how a new look at an old program saved millions of dollars. ''Starting just over a year ago, we began examining our home relief recipients, who are single and childless, in terms of having them work for their benefits.'' The result, he said, was startling.
After four months, 3,000 of the county's 7,300 home-relief cases had been examined for ''workfare,'' as the program is known, and 1,000 recipients had been dropped from the rolls. Some never showed up; the majority of those were assumed by county officials to be illegally working while receiving benefits intended for the unemployed.
A total of 1,800 home relief cases in Westchester were eventually dropped, ''saving $10 million in direct costs,'' Mr. O'Rourke said, ''while another $7 million was saved indirectly in medical payments and food stamps.''
New cases of homelessness dropped by 30 percent after Westchester, whose 4,500 cases represent the largest per capita homeless population in the state, established an assessment center at Westchester County Airport, the site of a large county shelter.
Suffolk County saved $3 million last year, Mr. Halpin said, by transferring many home relief recipients, whose costs are shared by the counties and the state, to S.S.I., the federally financed supplemental security income program.
 
Guests in the County Jails
Linda Spalinski, executive director of the New Jersey Association of Counties, said jail overcrowding was particularly serious for county governments, in part because of a nine-year-old executive order that ''forces counties to house state prisoners.''
''We have a county jail in Camden County built three or four years ago to handle 500 prisoners, but is now holding a prison population of 1,200,'' she said. ''New Jersey is one of only nine states not currently under some Federal order to reduce overcrowding, because it is using county jails as stopgaps.''
Counties, she said, ''look to property taxes to pay for government services, and this has a terrible effect on the elderly and young people trying to raise families.''
The Nassau County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, earlier this year drew attention to school costs, which represent at least half of most homeowners' property tax bills. He said rising property taxes were the greatest threat to the county's quality of life.
 
L.I. Commission To Study Cuts
Mr. Gulotta proposed a two-year moratorium on additional tax assessments for homeowners who make home improvements, and he joined Mr. Halpin, his Suffolk County counterpart, in forming a two-county commission, whose task is to propose tax-cutting measures for advisory referendums in November.
The commission could recommend changes that elected officials might fear to propose, like consolidating school districts or combining police and emergency services. It is headed by John V. N. Klein, a lawyer and former Suffolk County Executive, and Dr. James Shuart, president of Hofstra University.
Dr. Shuart said: ''We are going to have to face facts by answering the question: What does this or that service really provide, and can we afford it? The people being served would argue that the services are 100 percent necessary,'' but the commission is charged with finding tax relief.
State governments, said Ms. Spalinski, who represents New Jersey counties, ''have not only failed to replace Federal revenue sharing, which ended in 1986, but in New Jersey siphoned away from counties and municipalities revenues that have traditionally gone to them, such as our share of financial and corporate business taxes.''
 
Regionalizing Garbage Costs
''When the state took it away in 1981 it was worth $9 million,'' she said. ''Today it would be worth $20 million, and we used to get 25 percent of those taxes.'' Mandated costs, like paying for the court system, can increase by as much as 15 percent in a year, while New Jersey county budgets are usually not allowed to rise by more than five percent a year.
Some county administrators are looking to regional solutions for rising costs. Mr. McDowell, the Bergen County Executive, said that ''the solid waste crisis - getting rid of garbage -has become a big bill locally, with costs of dumping five times higher today than it was four years ago.''
''The answer may be regionalization, or the marrying of two or three counties,'' the Bergen official said, describing his talks with Essex and Hudson Counties over construction of a resource recovery plant.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As county governments find it increasingly difficult to balance budgets because of rising costs and shrinking revenues and subsidies, Rockland County is ending the Sheriff's marine unit to save $300,000 a year. (The New York Times/Joyce Dopkeen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: COUNTIES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FEDERAL AID (US) COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); CITIES (62%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (51%); 

PERSON: FERON, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 



395 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Renovation Program Is Running Out of Abandoned Housing

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Four years after deciding to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to build affordable housing, New York City finds itself at a surprising pass: it is running out of abandoned buildings to renovate.
This shortage is both a measure of New York's success and a predicament for the future. After it depletes its portfolio of 5,000 vacant, burned-out buildings - probably by 1992 or 1993 - will the fiscally strapped city be able to meet the continuing need for new housing? And what is the best, and most economical, way to do so?
This is undoubtedly the most difficult housing issue facing the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins. It is being debated now by housing experts and planners, who say it must be resolved this year if the city is to be ready with new programs when the renovation of the last large vacant structures is finished in the next two or three years. Determining government housing initiatives and awarding sites and financing to developers and community groups takes at least two years. 
 
A Major Reversal
No other American city had as many abandoned buildings, and none have mounted a comparable effort to produce new affordable housing. New York's record also represents a major reversal. As recently as 1983, the city, unwilling to spend its own money on housing, papered over the windows of some abandoned buildings with painted decals showing shutters and potted plants.
Some experts say completion of the renovations will mark the end of the city's ambitious effort. They say there will not be enough money to undertake the more costly task of building brand-new housing for the poor and working poor. Though the city is creating tens of thousands of new apartments, the need continues: a recent study estimated that New York city needed 231,000 more apartments and houses.
''Every war is fought with the weapons and concepts of its predecessors, so we are now fully equipped with a magnificent armament for the basic rehab of shattered structures,'' said George Sternlieb, University Professor of Urban Studies at Rutgers University.
''But now the better buildings have either been rebuilt or are in development, and some of the rest may not be worth renovating,'' he continued. ''Nobody has figured out what happens tomorrow. You have to place this in the context of the city's fiscal problems. It's a very tough one.'' Others argue that the city may have no choice. ''The city is going to have to switch from rehab to new construction,'' said Abraham Biderman, the last Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development in the Koch administration. ''To say that we simply can't afford it, that means we won't produce any more affordable housing in New York City. What are the consequences of not providing any more affordable housing?''
 
A Valued Commodity
Once the bane of hard-pressed neighborhoods, the shells of apartment buildings became a valued commodity when the city decided to spend several billion dollars to produce new housing for a population desperately short of living accommodations.
It costs less to rebuild an abandoned structure, even one that has only its foundation and outer walls intact, than to construct a new one. Renovations can also be completed more quickly because they require fewer approvals from government agencies and elected officials than does new construction.
But the city's unusual resource of vacant ruins, with 50,000 apartments, is being used up rapidly. Besides the 3,500 apartments that have been completed and the 14,700 that are under construction, most of the 18,000 apartments that are in development have city money committed for them, said Felice Michetti, who was appointed Housing Commissioner last month.
Most of the remaining abandoned buildings have fewer than 15 apartments each, and new programs will probably have to be devised to make it feasible for developers or nonprofit groups to rebuild them, she said.
 
A Shrinking Inventory
While some experts fear that New York's declining housing market may cause a new round of abandonment, most think the city is unlikely to add many newly abandoned structures to its shrinking inventory. In recent years, the city has been seizing occupied and vacant buildings containing about 2,000 apartments annually, a fifth of the total taken each year in the 1970's and early 1980's, when landlords and tenants walked away from huge swaths of New York's poorest sections.
In many of those neighborhoods, including most parts of the South Bronx, virtually every remaining city-owned abandoned shell is spoken for, say leaders of local nonprofit housing groups. That is putting pressure on the city to create new programs, both to keep housing producers busy and to provide new housing for New Yorkers not served by the private market.
Most experts said that the city must continue to create housing for low- and moderate-income households and that new construction would be the only alternative once the abandoned stock was depleted. But they differed significantly on what kind of housing should be built and whom it should serve.
The city now helps finance construction of new two- and three-story town houses that are sold to middle-income families, defined as those with incomes between $32,000 and $53,000 a year. Some experts said the city should expand this program to include new low-rise housing for those less affluent.
 
Cost of Renovation
If prefabricated housing was used, the city could produce new buildings, three to five stories tall, for about $80,000 an apartment, said Willa Appel, executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a nonprofit group. The complete renovation of abandoned shells has cost an average of $60,000 to $70,000 a unit, although some have cost up to $94,000 each.
The Nehemiah housing plan, which builds inexpensive, single-family row houses in the Brownsville and East New York sections of Brooklyn, has proposed a new type of garden apartment, which it said could be built for less than $60,000 a unit.
Ms. Appel argued that low-rise construction would be politically appealing because it would not cost much more than the renovations. By using small sites - vacant land held by the city and by private owners - the city government could also complete the renewal of many neighborhoods, she said.
The hard part would be obtaining private land, Ms. Appel said. That now takes as long as three years, but could be speeded up with some changes in city procedures, she said.
Mr. Biderman, who is now working for an investment firm, said taller structures should be built, so that the city's last remaining housing resource - land - could be used most efficiently. He argued that low-rise construction would not produce enough apartments. While he was Commissioner, Mr. Biderman refused several times to grant more land for Nehemiah housing.
Constructing buildings from 6 to 12 stories tall could cost as much as $130,000 to $150,000 an apartment, he said. To make a $130,000 apartment affordable to a family with a $30,000 annual income, the city would have to pay a direct subsidy of $100,000. City subsidies for the renovation of abandoned buildings range from a low of about $40,000 per apartment to the complete development cost.
 
New Techniques
New construction techniques, including prefabrication, might bring down the cost, said Paul A. Crotty, another former Housing Commissioner. Mr. Crotty suggested that new construction should be primarily for people with incomes above $19,000 a year and that existing older housing should be upgraded and preserved for the poor.
Others urged that future city programs be more flexible than existing ones. Rather than setting broad citywide standards and rules, the government should tailor initiatives to the differing needs of communities. Low-rise housing might be more appropriate in some areas, and high-rise more appropriate in others, they said.
Ms. Michetti, the new Housing Commissioner, said she too would like to create flexible programs. ''I really think you have to do it on a community-by-community basis,'' she said.
Among the possibilities, she said, is developing a new four-story apartment house, with units to be sold both to middle-income and low-income New Yorkers. Apartments could be made affordable to the poor by requiring very small down payments and then limiting the profit that could be made upon resale. The apartments then could remain a low-income resource.
''New construction presents a unique challenge,'' Ms. Michetti said. ''Rehab itself is pretty straightforward. The footprint, the building, is already there. In new construction we have the opportunity to become much more involved with communities in the planning. It's a much broader kind of initiative.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ABANDONMENT REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); BRANDING (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN



396 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Team of Scientists Sees Substantial Warming of Earth

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
Assembled by the United Nations in an attempt to arrive at an international consensus on global warming, a team of scientists says it is a ''virtual certainty'' that the temperature of the earth's surface will rise substantially in the next century.
The scientists generally agree with the theory that has been largely accepted by other national and international panels: that energy trapped in a greenhouse effect by industrial gases will warm the earth by 3 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit within the next 60 years.
A number of scientists, though, have raised doubts about the theory and about models of climatic change on which it is based. Skeptics call the model inaccurate or incomplete. 
The stakes are huge: Backers of the greenhouse theory say it will lead to worldwide flooding, climatic change and social disruption, #3 Groups Examine Theory Three United Nations teams are examining the theory and its policy implications. A team led by Britain is assessing the state of scientific knowledge about climate change. The conclusions that support the greenhouse theory are in this team's draft report. A group headed by the Soviet Union is looking into how such changes would affect social and economic systems. The third group, led by the United States, is preparing suggested policy responses to such changes. Final reports from all three groups are to be issued this year.
Although still in draft form, the report generally supporting the greenhouse theory is likely to play a role in a White House conference on the changes in global climate. President Bush, who will open the meeting Tuesday, has invited 17 nations plus the European Community and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to participate.
Michael R. Deland, the chairman of the President's Council on Environmental Quality, said the conference was intended to ''integrate the scientific and economic research challenges posed by the climate change issue.''
Mr. Deland, who is co-chairman of the conference, said in an interview that the White House called the conference to accelerate United Nations efforts to collect information needed for policy decisions about the greenhouse effect. He denied the contention of some Democrats and environmentalists that the Bush Administration had organized the forum to justify delaying national and international efforts to cope with global warming.
 
Many Unanswered Questions
In February, the President spoke to the international group assembled by the United National to study the greenhouse theory and emphasized the many unanswered questions about the evidence supporting the theory and the uncertainity about the economic consequences of reducing the use of fossil fuels and taking other steps to lower emissions of industrial gases.
Mr. Bush's remarks appeared to reflect the skepticism of those scientists who questioned whether the available evidence was sufficient to predict that the earth will warm substantially in the next century.
As Mr. Deland noted, however, the President has offered to serve as host of a conference to begin work on international climate change treaty. Mr. Bush has also proposed that $1 billion be budgeted for research into global warming issues.
Senator Al Gore, a Tennessee Democrat who is an advocate of a strong international response to the threat of global warming, has questioned the motives of the Administration in calling the conference on climate change.
He said in a telephone interview that it was ironic that the findings of the international panel supporting the greenhouse theory would be made public on the eve ''of a conference that was designed to highlight scientific uncertainty,'' and added, ''The report confounds the skeptics.''
 
Substantial Modifications Likely
D. Allan Bromley, Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, said he had had only a ''cursory look'' at the draft report. But he said scientists on the panel had told him the draft was likely to be modified substantially before it is issued in final form.
Asked about the report's predictions of global warming, Dr. Bromley, also a co-chairman of the upcoming conference, said: ''There are still large uncertainties with any of the models. There is a consensus that if we continue to put greenhouse gases into the atmosphere at the rate of this century, we eventually will get global warming. But we don't know the exact time and magnitude, and some gaping uncertainties that underly these models have not yet been resolved.''
The draft report found that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, chlorofluorocarbons and nitrous oxides, gases that retain radiation from sunlight and thus contribute to a warming of the earth, are continuing to build up in the atmosphere.
To stabilize concentrations of carbon dioxide at present levels, it said, ''an immediate reduction in global man-made emissions by 60 to 80 percent would be necessary.'' Such emissions come chiefly from the burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil.
 
Analysis of Geologic Records
The authors of the report said they had a high degree of confidence that the earth's surface and the lower atmosphere would warm by 2.7 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit. While the models show there is likely to be increased drought at mid-latitudes in the Northern Hemisphere, the available data permit only relatively low confidence in this finding, the report said.
In the last 100 years, the temperature of the globe has gone up by three-tenths of a degree to 1.1 degrees Fahrenheit, a range consistent with the climate models, the report said. But it also said it cannot be determined at this point how much of that increase can be attributed to greenhouse gases.
The report noted, however, that an analysis of the geologic records of prehistoric epochs shows that the correlation of increases of carbon dioxide in the air with temperature changes is similar to the predictions of the computer models.
Richard S. Lindzen, a scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has been one of the most vocal critics of the conclusions of the climate models, said he had not seen the draft report. But when told of its findings, he said, ''The conclusions sound off the wall to me.''
Mr. Lindzen said there are still so many uncertainties in the models, including the role of increased cloud formation and water vapor as a result of warmer temperature, that they cannot accurately forecast what will happen in the next century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; AIR POLLUTION; FORECASTS; CARBON DIOXIDE CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP GEORGE W BUSH (67%); 



397 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bars Chinese Role At Talks on Air Pollution

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
To avoid violating sanctions imposed on China last year because of its crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators, the Administration has excluded Beijing from an international conference on air pollution and climatic change, even though the Chinese burn more industrial coal than any other country, officials said today.
The conference, to be held here on Tuesday and Wednesday, will include the rest of the world's most industrialized or populous nations, and White House officials said they normally would have considered Chinese participation an important element of such a meeting.
The White House Conference on Scientific and Economic Research Related to Global Change is part of President Bush's effort to spur research into the way pollution may be changing the global climate and to allay criticism of his environmental policies. Mr. Bush will address the gathering on Tuesday morning and Wednesday afternoon.
The conference is to focus on the kind of research the industrialized and developing nations should conduct on the theory of global warming, which postulates that certain kinds of pollutants are causing the Earth's temperature to rise. The burning of coal is the primary source of carbon dioxide, a chemical that is believed to be a major cause of this phenomenon. 
 
Criteria Explained
In drawing up the guest list for the conference, the White House selected countries ''that have substantial populations, large land masses, industrial economies or heavy future energy needs,'' said Stephen Hart, a White House spokesman.
China, which has the world's largest population, about 1 billion people, burns more coal than any other country and is expected to increase its consumption dramatically in an industrialization drive. At present, it is the third largest producer of carbon dioxide in the world, after the United States and the Soviet Union, according to United Nations statistics.
''China has the potential to emit a lot of carbon dioxide as they continue to develop, as well as chlorofluorocarbons, and under different circumstances they probably would have been invited to this meeting,'' Mr. Hart said.
Scientists say chlorofluorocarbons, chemicals used for such purposes as propellants in aerosol sprays and coolants in refrigerators and air conditioners, damage the ozone layer, increasing the amount of harmful radiation reaching the earth's surface.
 
High-Level Exchanges Banned
But Mr. Hart said China was excluded from the list because of the sanctions Mr. Bush imposed against the Beijing Government last year after its nationwide crackdown on political dissent, which culminated in the violence in Tiananmen Square last June.
Among those measures was a ban on high-level exchanges between the two nations. Mr. Hart said the White House determined that the rule would apply to the conference since the invitations went out to government officials of ministerial level.
Officials said that even if China's participation might have been useful, the Administration wanted to avoid the kind of severe criticism it drew last year after it was disclosed that Brent Scowcroft, the President's national security adviser, and Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of State, had made two trips to China after the sanctions were imposed. The White House took the position at the time that the Scowcroft-Eagleburger mission was not an exchange.
The United States signed the 1987 Montreal Protocol, which called for a reduction of 50 percent in the production of chlorofluorocarbons. The 80 nations that signed the document are now negotiating a deadline for a complete ban on the chemicals. China has not ratified the protocol.
Sending delegations to the conference besides the United States are Australia, Brazil, Canada, West Germany, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, the Soviet Union, Britain and Zaire, as well as the European Community and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EARTH (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; COAL; CARBON DIOXIDE; RESEARCH; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); OZONE DEPLETION (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



398 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Rain Alone Won't Ease Latest Drought in West

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 15

 BODY:
The plentiful and cheap water that made much of the West rich, powerful and populous has now turned scarce and ever more costly to find.
A fourth straight year of drought has descended on California and the Southwest. It has brought not only painful shortages and restrictions on water use but also profound questions about the region's capacity to grow the way it has and preserve its comfortable style of life without devastating environmental consequences and bitter divisions.
But by contrast with previous droughts, shortages will endure even if rain and snowfall return to normal next winter, officials say. Enormous population growth, environmental concerns, contamination of underground water and court rulings have all combined to make it harder and harder to keep up with demand. 
''In the past, we went out and built another dam or aqueduct,'' said Carl Boronkay, general manager of the Metropolitan Water District, the powerful agency that supplies 62 percent of the water used by 15 million residents of Southern California. ''That's more and more difficult now.'' Action Likely This Week This week, officials of the San Francisco Water Department are expected to recommend mandatory rationing for that city, whose sole source of water, the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir on the Tuolumne River in the Sierra Nevada, was down to 27 percent of capacity as of April 3. Since most reservoir water accumulates between November and April, there is little chance the situation will improve soon.
Also This week, the board of the Metropolitan Water District is expected to issue drought rules that could result in cutbacks of 10 to 20 percent or more to the 300 cities and towns it serves in six counties from Oxnard to the Mexican border. Two weeks ago, Mayor Tom Bradley said was ''very likely'' in Los Angeles.
Rationing has been a fact of life for some time on the central coast of California. In Monterey, each household must cut back by 20 percent or face stiff fines. Farther south, in the seaside city of Santa Barbara, where residents voted 11 years ago not to built an aqueduct to the State Water Project for fear it would bring unbridled growth, people water lawns with buckets.
 
Nevada and Arizona Affected
In Nevada, the fastest-growing state, rural interests are mounting a political and legal assault on a $1.5 billion plan by the parched city of Las Vegas to pump water from remote, sparsely populated counties to the north. And in Phoenix, the City Council recently considered restrictions on lawns.
The water for these areas comes mainly from snows melting off the Sierra and channeled to the farms of the Central Valley of California and to cities along the coast, as well as from the Colorado River.
This year, precipitation in California has been 60 percent of normal and snow runoff is 40 percent of normal. Some reservoirs, like the Gibraltar near Santa Barbara, are empty. Gibraltar's caretaker, Dennis Ward, recently stood on the cracked sand that in other times has been under many feet of water.
Meanwhile, the Colorado River is flowing at less than 50 percent of normal volume.
As a result, the California Department of Water Resources is expected to order urban users of the State Water Project to cut back by 5 to 10 percent. It has aleady imposed a 28 percent cut on agricultural users in the San Joaquin and Sacramento Valleys.
 
Effects of Court Ruling
The drought also means that California for the first time will feel the effects of a 1964 Supreme Court decision that limited the state's rights to Colorado River water in dry years. California officials say increased demand by Arizona will likely mean that the water diverted by the Metropolitan Water District and fed into a 242-mile aqueduct to Southern California will be cut by a quarter.
California grew by about 5.2 million people during the 1980's. The Department of Finance projects that the population will grow from 28.8 million this year to 32.9 million in 2000.
In the past, the water barons of the West easily and eagerly coped with such demand. With what many historians now believe was arrogance and blind contempt for the environment, they built aqueducts, dams and reservoirs that brought water to the growing cities and farms.
 
Fish Are a Factor
But such projects are not so easily built today. Major elements of the State Water Project, which diverts water from the Sacramento River delta, remain unfinished, bogged down in environmental and legal battles. Concerns about harm to San Francisco Bay, into which the delta empties, have caused long delays in diverting more water to Southern California.
Legal sanctions against taking endangered winter-run Chinook salmon have complicated efforts to divert more water from the Sacramento River.
But given economic and political forces, few doubt that urban needs will be met. The question is how, and at what cost to the environment and agriculture. Farming still consumes 80 percent of California water.
''Over all, the state has enough water to meet even the tremendous growth we are seeing,'' said David Kennedy, director of the California Department of Water Resources. But he said a shift from ''absolutes'' to ''reasonable protection'' on environmental issues is necessary. A Lesson From Nature? Environmentalists say the drought underscores the need for wiser use of resources. Some environmentalists see water as a possible tool in the battle to limit growth. Developers, though, have not yet been squeezed hard except in areas like Santa Barbara.
In the meantime, political accommodations and conservation continue. San Francisco, long a center of opposition to the State Water Project because of environmental damage to the bay, recently agreed to spend $700,000 to build a 30-inch pipeline to allow it to tap into the pipeline in emergencies.
But many say even more sweeping changes can be expected. ''One in 10 Americans lives in California,'' said Jason E. Peltier, director of the Central Valley Project Association, which represents water districts that buy water from that Federal project. ''When they get thirsty, we'll see changes.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A severe drought in the West and Southwest has raised questions about the capacity for development. Because of restrictions on water use, Deborah Campagna had James Howard install water-saving devices, including a faucet aerator, at her home in Pasadena, Calif. (The New York Times/Bart Bartholomew); graph showing the drought conditions through April 1 in California (source: State of California)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; SOUTHWESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: WATER; DROUGHT; POPULATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SHORTAGES; WEATHER; RAIN; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS DROUGHT (91%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); WEATHER (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); TRENDS (71%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); MAYORS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); 

PERSON: ;REINHOLD, ROBERT



399 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: Tides of Change Lap at Soviet Sports

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
Amid the economic crisis and political reforms in the Soviet Union, sports authorities are straining to preserve a costly system that has made the Soviet Union the leading country in the Olympics for almost 20 years.
While a comparable situation forced sports leaders in East Germany to scrap a system that lifted their Olympic athletes to second place, Soviet officials contend that success at the international level is too important to the Soviet people to allow the apparatus to degenerate.
As a result, they defend the system against an increasing number of critics who say elite sports are being maintained at the expense of sports programs for ordinary citizens. Officials are also facing an assault from within: the expanding capitalist tendencies of elite athletes, who want to be treated the same as their counterparts in Western countries.
''We are looking for the correct ways to develop sports for all and, at the same time, maintain our high performance sports,'' Nikolai I. Rusak, the chairman of the State Committee for Physical Education and Sports, said in a recent interview. ''But we're working hard so that changes in our country do not affect elite sports. It is very easy to destroy a system created over many years and very difficult to reconstruct.'' 
The vast system of sports clubs, schools and colleges, run by the national sports committee, is supported by revenues generated from a national lottery, the sale of daily sports newspapers and of tickets to events, plus the sponsorship of enterprises and trade unions affiliated with various clubs. The Government makes an annual contribution, but officials say the sports committee returns all of it and more in the form of taxes.
In its ideal form, the system blends mass sports and elite programs, producing Olympic champions as a result of exposing all citizens to all sports. As the more skilled athletes emerge, currently some 23,000, they move along an assembly line through any of 40 sports schools, in which they learn from coaches who trained at one of the country's 50 sports colleges.
Meanwhile, citizens interested in sports for fitness and fun can partcipate as they wish.
 
Only Partial Success
But while the Soviet economy has deteriorated in recent years, creating severe shortages of food and consumer goods, only the elite half of the equation seems to be working. In all except 2 of the 10 Olympic Games staged since 1972, Soviet athletes have won the most medals. The exceptions were the 1980 Lake Placid Winter Games, in which East Germany won one more, and the 1984 Los Angeles Summer Games, which the Soviet Union did not attend for political reasons.
At the same time, opportunities for the masses have withered as public demands for more venues, adequate athletic equipment and new clothing go unanswered. Rusak's deputy, Aleksandr Koslovsky, said that his daughter, an avid tennis player, grew so frustrated trying to find an open court that she gave up the sport and turned to table tennis.
''We have only 30 percent of the gymnastics halls we need and only 10 percent of the swimming pools,'' Rusak said. ''The biggest problem is a shortage of equipment and clothing. All of our factories can produce only 7 million pairs of shoes when we need at least 70 million.''
 
Small Turnouts
Interest in watching sports may also be declining. At a recent game to determine the national club championship in basketball, fewer than 1,000 people attended. Rusak said low attendance was more characteristic of competitions staged in Moscow, where the Central Army Club dominates most competition.
But the phenomenon is worrisome to those who view spectator sports as part of the mass programs, which serve as the foundation of the Olympic factory.
''This is a problem that concerns us,'' Rusak said. ''Frankly speaking, I cannot answer the question why Soviet people don't want to attend sports competition. The skill level is quite high. The cost of the tickets is moderately low. We think what influences this are society factors, the way of life, problems with the food supply. Most people, after finishing work, have to run around to shops to look for food and other different goods. This takes a lot of time.''
Frequent critics of the system, like Yuri Vlasov, the 1960 Olympic gold medalist in weight lifting and a member of the Congress of People's Deputies from Moscow, cite the widespread shortages of food and other goods and argue that, for now, Government expenditures for elite sports are entirely inappropriate.
''I represent 300,000 people in the dirtiest, most industrialized district in Moscow,'' he said during an interview in his home. ''The mood among the workers is very gloomy, indeed, and the situation among poor people is worsening increasingly.''
Vlasov charged that the national sports committee was less concerned about developing sports in the Soviet Union than in maintaining the system for personal status and gain.
He said the entire apparatus should be overhauled, with a state committee to run mass sports programs and individual federations to govern each sport living off their own marketing and commercial efforts. In the process, layers of bureaucracy would be eliminated.
The failure to restructure the current system, he contended, could lead to the end of mass sports progams.
''Officials at the sports ministry are completely out of touch with reality,'' Vlasov said. ''The entire country is sitting on a volcano. It is quite possible that all finances from the Government will be withdrawn from sports within the next two or three years. The economic situation of the country is much more serious than ever before. Sports will be impinged; I have not the slightest doubt about that.''
 
Agreement on Need for Change
Rusak and other senior sports officials agree with Vlasov that the system should be restructured. They favor independent federations. They also feel that the sports committee should be responsible for setting up mass programs, overseeing the construction of new venues, scheduling events, running the schools and colleges, publishing sports newspapers and directing scientific research.
But other Government agencies, they say, should pay for it.
''The health of the nation is an affair of the state,' said Marat Gramov, the president of the national Olympic committee and a member of the International Olympic Committee. ''The state has not taken the responsibility for the health of the nation through sports and physical culture. They have not given big money, just kopeks. That's not enough.''
Changes are being planned. Koslovsky, Rusak's deputy, said the national sports committee recently proposed laws to the national Parliament that would lead to the kind of reorganization Vlasov suggested and are similar to those recently adopted by sports leaders in East Germany. Further, the committee has negotiated several joint-venture deals with Western firms, including adidas of West Germany, for plants to produce equipment and clothing.
But change on a grand scale in a country of nearly 290 million is usually painfully slow.
Koslovsky said the changes would take three to five years to go into effect, and the more popular sports, like track and field, basketball and gymnastics, he predicted, would have no trouble finding sponsors. He wonders about the others, leaving him somewhat pessimistic that the changes would do much good over all.
 
'Forced to Change'
''There will definitely be changes,'' he said. ''We are forced to change our type of operation because of the situation in the country. But it's our intention to keep everything good we developed before. When I see the destructive character of change in some of our neighboring countries, I feel our main obligation is to try to preserve what we have managed.''
Change in one area has come faster, much to the dismay of Vlasov and others. Soviet officials have acted with uncommon speed to reward athletes who have performed well in major international competitions.
The practice has been in effect for more than 40 years though not widely known until recently, when the sums awarded have soared. Vladimir Artemov, who won three gold medals at the 1988 Seoul Olympics in gymnastics, said he had received 32,000 rubles, $5,333 at the official exchange rate of 6 rubles to the dollar, plus $1,280 in hard currency - unfathomable amounts to the average Soviet citizen. Champion athletes also wait far less time to get cars and larger apartments.
Koslovsky defended the bonuses, above the athlete's usual salary of 400 rubles a month. He argued that Soviet athletes who train as hard as Western athletes were entitled to equal rewards. Further, athletes can earn such amounts for only a limited number of years, after which many face late entry into the mainstream for which they are not necessarily prepared.
''Without the money, an athlete gets a gold medal and two stories about him in the newspaper,'' Koslovsky said. ''An actor has to receive his flowers on the stage.''
 
Keeping More Money
The committee has also relaxed rules that govern prize money. For years, Soviet athletes competing outside the country were given little more than pocket change while the bulk of their winnings was claimed by the state. Now, they can keep as much as half, with 20 percent of the remainder going to the state as taxes and 30 percent to the national sports committee for use in mass sports programs through payments to clubs and trade unions.
Athletes now are also allowed to retain an agent, although in that case, their tax bite is higher, 69 percent.
Koslovsky contended he had misgivings about capitulating to such changes, saying, ''We feel we have to do it, so we do it.'' But Vlasov contended that Koslovsky and his colleagues were actually eager to satisfy the athletes' demands, as a way of eliminating them as potential threats to their positions.
''Athletes have become more malleable and sheepish, the only way they can survive,'' Vlasov said, adding that he believed none of the country's current sports leaders had the vision to lead the system into the future.
Those leaders, however, seem unfazed by his or anyone else's points of view and undeterred in their resolve to make sure the Soviet Union remains the world's leading Olympic nation.
''I once took a friend to Leningrad to see the summer gardens, planted by Peter the Great,'' Koslovsky said. ''The trees there were planted in 1720 and weren't destroyed by the revolution of 1917 like so many other things. My friend asked me why. 'Because they are part of our culture,' I told him. Elite sports are also part of our culture. We simply have to understand that. I don't know of a single country that would even consider the question, whether or not to develop elite sports. We would be foolish idiots if we made any steps backward. The nation would never forgive us.''

GRAPHIC: photos: Nikolai I. Rusak of the State Committee for Physical Education and Sports. (Tasss) (pg. C1); Yuri Vlasov, the Soviet weight lifter who was Olympic heavyweight champion in 1960. (Associated Press) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TENNIS (72%); LOTTERIES (64%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



400 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 6, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: A Champion-Turned-Critic

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
The signposts of his life were strewn all about in the old flat he and his wife moved into just days before. Along one wall were scores of unopened cartons, filled with books and papers, the necessities of almost two decades of writing. In a far corner sat a gleaming barbell, the kind he lifted to win an Olympic gold medal in 1960 and set four world records during an eight-year period in which he was known as ''the world's strongest man.''
It is only when Yuri Vlasov starts talking that other evidence of his life's work begins to emerge: the harsh words he uses to criticize sports authorities in the Soviet Union for the way he feels they have sanctified elite sports when the country suffers from so many deficiencies. 
Once an insider, as Olympic champion and later the president of the national weight-lifting federation and, until three years ago, the chairman of the national body-building federation, Vlasov has railed against officials for years, accusing them of corrupt practices and charging that some have even encouraged athletes to use drugs as a way to continue the stream of Olympic medals.
 
Campaign Expands
But during the current economic crisis in the Soviet Union, Vlasov has expanded his campaign, warning that a prolonged emphasis on elite sports will ultimately bankrupt the system, bringing an end to programs for everyday citizens.
''How long the system lasts depends upon the general crisis in the country,'' he said in a recent interview. ''When the general crisis gets really bad, all money will be taken away from the national sports committee. If people stay hungry, there will be an explosion in the near future.''
Vlasov's skepticism toward the sports establishment began early in his career as a competitor, in the late 1950's.
During his training as a student in the Soviet air force academy, he was taught ''hatred toward America,'' an attitude conveniently applied to competition. When he defeated an American, he said, he received larger bonuses than usual.
Sports officials also drummed into him that by establishing athletic superiority, Soviet athletes were demonstrating the superiority of socialism.
 
'Ideological Warfare'
''When I became an athlete, I was told I was waging ideological warfare against the West,'' he said. ''I was told: 'You are the shock force. You have been taken from a vast army of ordinary citizens, handpicked, to fight for our selfless ideals.' The pitch acquired special intensity when we competed against Americans. In weight lifting, Americans were our main enemy. Winning against Americans always had a special priority.
''The paradox was, my hatred for America was combined with a natural sympathy for American people. I had no difficulty combining my ambivalence because we were training for all-out war with America, and we were quite prepared for that event.''
 
Highest Honor
In 1960, he won the gold medal at the Rome Olympics, setting two Olympic and two world records, and for that, he received the Order of Lenin, the highest honor awarded by the state. In 1967 he retired from competition to write books, and has published seven of them. Three others are completed; he is working on another.
Vlasov's open attacks on Soviet sports officials began around the time he retired from competition, when the use of performance-enhancing drugs by athletes was becoming popular and officials did little to discourage it. While the use of the substances was not banned by international sports organizations until the early 1970's, he said he watched generations of athletes use them, win medals, then suffer adverse side effects. Not much has changed, he said. ''The whole system was designed to squeeze out their last ounce of juice to produce the best results,'' he said. ''We once took random tests of 13- and 14-year-old boys competing in weight lifting. Ninety percent of them tested positive for steroids. This poison seeps down from elite sports, and now the poison has permeated into the masses of coaches and athletes, themselves.''
In separate interviews, several senior sports officials denied that the state had ever sanctioned drug use. Vlasov finds the denials almost amusing.
''If we really discontinued drug use, all of our teams would start losing,'' he said. ''The sports officials would be made the scapegoats, and that's not going to happen. They are simply playing for public sympathies. You cannot be declared a thief unless you get caught red-handed.''
 
Wins Seat in Congress
Vlasov has gained a more formal setting for his outspoken comments. At the urging of friends last spring, he ran for a seat in the Congress of People's Deputies and won when his opponent, fearing defeat, dropped out of the race and moved to a different district, a practice not uncommon in Soviet politics. In one of his first speeches, he stunned the nation by excoriating the K.G.B., the Soviet secret police, the first time such an attack had been mounted from the Parliament podium.
Despite his views on those who run elite sports in the Soviet Union, he said he still loved elite sports and they were necessary. It is the system, he said, that is ''totally rotten.''
''It would be a real crime to conform them to oblivion,'' he said. ''They are part of our human culture. To renounce them completely would be silly.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Yuri Vlasov addressing the Soviet Congress of People's Deputies last year in Moscow. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS OF PEOPLE'S DEPUTIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); WEIGHTLIFTING (90%); SPORTS (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); ATHLETES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CORRUPTION (67%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); AIR FORCES (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; VLASOC, YURI YURI VLASOV (91%); 

 
