

1201 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MAISONROUGE, JACQUES

 BODY:
MAISONROUGE--Jacques, 87, passed away at home in Paris on January 25, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife, Francoise, their five children, Christine, Florence, Sylvie, Francois and Anne-Sophie, their spouses and partner, Xavier, Vincent, Robert, Ketty and Sophie, their eleven grandchildren and their spouses, and their ten great-grandchildren. He instilled his high sense of duty, hard work and ethics to his family, and took great pride in their achievements. 
He was thrilled to have started a family now living in France, the US, the UK, and even China. His lifelong love of the United States was born in occupied France. In 1948, after graduating from the prestigious Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures, he joined IBM, and he and Francoise moved to the US for what would be the first of four long stays there. His career at IBM spanned 36 years, and would culminate in his becoming Chairman and CEO of IBM World Trade Corporation, and a member of the Board of IBM Corporation. A true French patriot, he was a champion of French-American friendship, and a passionate supporter of Europe. In parallel to his business career, he was a tireless promoter of "world peace through world trade". After retiring from IBM in 1984, he continued to serve on a number of boards, including those of L'Air Liquide and Philip Morris. In 1986, he was called to duty by the French government, and served as Director General of Industry. He served on the boards or as president of a number of philanthropic organizations involved in economic policy making, management, education and health. Most notably, he was President of his alma mater, the Ecole Centrale, and of the American Hospital of Paris. In 1999, he was made a Knight Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, the highest order in France. He was a Knight of Malta (GM), and the recipient of honors from many countries where he had made his mark. He was particularly proud to have been invited by the Society of the Cincinnati to become an honorary member. Members of the Society are descendants of the officers of the Continental Army and Navy and their French counterparts who served in the Revolutionary War. The funeral service is at Saint-Louis des Invalides Cathedral, in Paris, on Monday, January 30, at 10:30am.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (78%); ETHICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CHARITIES (66%); ARMIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PHILANTHROPY (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (69%); IBM WORLD TRADE CORP (69%); AIR LIQUIDE SA (54%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (69%); IBM (NYSE) (69%); IBM (LSE) (69%); AI (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (54%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (58%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MALTA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1202 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: Check Point: Charge of Profiting From Floridians' Woes

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Times reporters take a closer look at some of the statements made by the Republican presidential candidates in Thursday night's debate.
Profiting From the Housing Crisis
Seeking to exploit questions over Mitt Romney's investments, Newt Gingrich attacked Mr. Romney tonight for profiting from the housing woes of Florida residents.
''Governor Romney owns shares, has an investment in Goldman Sachs, which is today foreclosing on Floridians,'' Mr. Gingrich charged. ''So maybe Governor Romney, in the spirit of openness, should tell us how much money he's made off of how many households that have been foreclosed by his investments.''
The attack is one Mr. Gingrich first unveiled earlier in the day on the campaign trail, when he appeared at a Tea Party rally and responded to Mr. Romney's attacks on him for his consulting work for Freddie Mac by saying, ''Someone who owns stock in a place that forecloses on Floridians has a lot of gall to start raising the issue.'' 
Both charges are misleading.
Most of Mr. Romney's assets, along with those of his wife, are held in blind trusts. Those trusts, managed by a trustee without input from Mr. Romney, include among dozens of assets an investment in a Goldman Sachs fund that in turn invests in mortgage-backed securities. Some of those securities are linked to adjustable-rate mortgages from banks. And some of those banks, or the companies that now own them, are known to be engaged in foreclosure proceedings in Florida, along with other states.
To sum up: The Romneys have assets in a blind trust that invests in a fund that invests partly in securities backed by some banks that are attempting or have attempted to foreclose on some people in Florida.
But it is not clear how much money -- if any -- Mr. Romney's trusts have earned (or lost) as a result of those investments. And at any rate, those investments would have been made without his knowledge or guidance.
-- Nicholas Confessore
Israel and the Palestinian People
Mr. Romney said President Obama ''threw Israel under the bus'' by criticizing its construction of Jewish settlements while not condemning the hail of rockets sent into Israel from the Gaza Strip. But in December 2008, as a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama referred specifically to these attacks, declaring, ''If somebody was sending rockets into my house, where my two daughters sleep at night, I'm going to do everything in my power to stop that, and I would expect Israelis to do the same thing.''
Mr. Obama also condemned rocket attacks on Israel in speeches before the United Nations in 2009 and 2011.
Mr. Gingrich, repeating a charge he first made in early December, asserted that the Palestinian people were ''technically an invention in the late 1970s.'' But the Palestine Liberation Organization was founded in 1964 to lobby for the rights of the Arab people who had historically lived in lands that became part of Israel. Historians trace the identity of Palestinians back to the early decades of the 20th century.
-- Mark Landler
Romney Voting Democrat
Mitt Romney said, ''I've never voted for a Democrat when there was a Republican on the ballot.''
However, he has said that he voted for Senator Paul Tsongas, a Massachusetts Democrat, when he ran in 1992 for the presidential nomination against Bill Clinton, among others.
That was the same day, and the same year, that President George H.W. Bush and Pat Buchanan were on the Republican ballot.
As an independent, Mr. Romney could have voted in either party's primary, and apparently chose to vote for the Democrat.
Mr. Romney has said that it was clear that Mr. Bush was going to win the Massachusetts primary -- he did, with 65 percent of the vote -- and that he voted in the Democratic primary simply to try to stop Bill Clinton.
(Despite Mr. Romney's support for Mr. Tsongas that year, Mr. Bush has said he supports Mr. Romney now.)
-- Katharine Q. Seelye
Fannie and Freddie Created the Housing Bubble
Earlier in the debate, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance companies now under government conservatorship, came under attack for helping to cause the housing crisis, which is nearly five years old. But that significantly exaggerates their role in the crisis, in the view of numerous nonpartisan analysts. By attacking the companies, rivals of Mr. Gingrich by extension attack him, since his company earned more than $1 million as a consultant for Freddie Mac from 1999 to 2006. So it was that Mr. Romney prominently criticized them, saying, ''Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were a big part of why we have the housing crisis,'' then adding that Mr. Gingrich ''should have been anxiously telling people that these entities were causing a housing bubble that would cause a collapse that we've seen here in Florida and around the country.''
Those, especially Republicans, who put much blame on the mortgage finance companies and the federal government say that because of federal mandates that Fannie and Freddie encourage affordable mortgage loans, the companies enabled mortgages to be granted to people who could not afford them and then invested heavily in securities that packaged these subprime loans, many of which went bust. But numerous analysts and reports have shown that Fannie and Freddie belatedly invested in subprime mortgages in 2005 and 2006 because Wall Street firms were way ahead of them and seizing market share. Many of these analysts are hardly fans of the companies but criticize them for other reasons. When it comes to the financial crisis that began in 2007, Fannie and Freddie were more victim than villain, they say.
The Times's Joe Nocera has written several columns on the subject, including this one: ''An Inconvenient Truth.''
-- Jackie Calmes
Gingrich and Balanced Budgets
Clearly, Newt Gingrich is not reading the myriad fact-checking articles about these Republican debates. Once again, he incorrectly took credit for four balanced budgets while he was House speaker. But it makes for easy fact checking when we can simply repeat what we have written before. Here is what The Times wrote last week:
It is a claim Mr. Gingrich makes almost every day on the campaign trail, but it is based on an odd timeline. The years of balanced budgets in question are from fiscal 1998 through 2001, but Mr. Gingrich was in office for only the first two. He left the House in January 1999 and had no role in crafting the budgets for the subsequent two years.
When pressed on this discrepancy, Mr. Gingrich sometimes argues that he deserves credit for policies enacted in the 1990s that promoted economic prosperity and established a climate for balancing budgets that carried beyond his time in office.
This is at least the third time The Times has fact-checked this claim. PolitiFact has also looked into it repeatedly, most recently at the last Fox News debate in Iowa in December, when it was rated ''false.''
This time makes four. But even before The Times could react, Ron Paul did. Mr. Paul, who was in the House while Mr. Gingrich was speaker, said to him, ''I think you've stretched that a little bit more than you should have.''
-- Jackie Calmes
Obama's Policy in Latin America
Mr. Santorum said President Obama's policy in Latin America was ''abysmal,'' singling out his response to a coup that removed the president of Honduras, Manuel Zelaya. Mr. Santorum said the administration sided with leftist leaders like Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and Fidel Castro of Cuba over the people of Honduras. In fact, Mr. Zelaya was the legitimately elected leader of Honduras.
Some Republicans in Congress called for the United States to recognize Roberto Micheletti, a parliamentary leader who was installed in the presidency. But the White House refused, trying instead to broker a deal to bring Mr. Zelaya home from exile to serve out the remainder of his term. When that failed, the United States accepted the results of a new election, in which a third person, Porfirio Lobo, was elected president.
-- Mark Landler
'Language of the Ghetto'
Mr. Gingrich was asked if he had called Spanish ''the language of the ghetto,'' as a new ad from the Romney campaign suggests.
Mr. Gingrich said he had not.
This is accurate, given the original context of his remarks. Mr. Gingrich said, ''We should replace bilingual education with immersion in English so people learn the common language of the country and they learn the language of prosperity, not the language of living in a ghetto.''
Based on that quotation, the Romney campaign ad accused Mr. Gingrich of saying that Spanish ''is the language of the ghetto.''
Mr. Gingrich did not specifically refer to Spanish in that remark, though many assumed that was his intent, and he later apologized for his word choice-in Spanish.
-- Michael Barbaro
Number of Languages Spoken at Miami Dade College
Mr. Gingrich exaggerated when he said 94 languages were spoken at Miami Dade College, but he got the number right just days ago at Monday's debate - 86. His earlier statement - like tonight's, characteristic of Mr. Gingrich, who commonly drops obscure ''facts'' into his rhetoric - prompted the nonpartisan fact checkers at PolitiFact.com to get to work. PolitiFact quoted a college spokesman as saying that in the 2010-11 school year, students spoke 85 languages besides English, for a total of 86. ''We rate this claim verdad, or vrai, or true,'' it said.
-- Jackie Calmes
Self-Deportation
Wolf Blitzer asked Newt Gingrich whether Mitt Romney is anti-immigrant; a Gingrich campaign Spanish-language radio ad called Mr. Romney ''anti-immigrant.''
While saying Mr. Romney is ''anti-immigrant'' may be hyperbole, during the primary campaign, Mr. Romney has moved well to the restrictionist right on immigration. He took his ''self-deportation'' idea from groups, like the Federation for American Immigration Reform, that not only oppose benefits for illegal immigrants but also seek big reductions in legal immigration.
Mr. Romney generally rules out any opening for illegal immigrants. His plan is to create an airtight national system of worker verification, based on a secure identity card. Illegal immigrants without cards would not be able to find jobs, Mr. Romney argues, and soon they would pack up and leave-they would ''self-deport.''
Mr. Romney has said that as president he would veto a bill known as the Dream Act, which would give legal status to immigrant students brought to the United States illegally as children, if they finish two years of college or military service. But in Monday night's debate, he said he would approve the Dream Act for those who serve in the military, although not for college students.
He opposes state laws like the one in Texas that allows children of illegal immigrant residents to attend public colleges at in-state tuition rates.
Mr. Romney also welcomed the endorsement of Kris Kobach, the secretary of state of Kansas, who was an author of laws based on the self-deportation strategy that were adopted in Arizona and several other states, designed to drive illegal immigrants out of those states.
-- Julia Preston
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich attacked Mitt Romney's investment in a Goldman Sachs fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1203 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: At Davos, Debating Capitalism's Future

BYLINE: By ED MILIBAND. 
Ed Miliband is a member of the British Parliament and the leader of the Labour Party.

 BODY:
Davos, Switzerland
IS 20th-century capitalism failing 21st-century society? Members of the global elite debated that unusual question on Wednesday at the annual World Economic Forum.
There was a time, not long ago, when such a debate would have been held only among the protesters who annually shelter in igloos farther down the Alpine slopes. So it is encouraging that more than three years since the global financial crisis, a belated process of soul-searching has begun in search of the right lessons to learn from it.
In Britain, members of the Conservative-led government -- not least the prime minister, David Cameron -- have echoed the Labour Party's call for a more responsible capitalism. 
There is a great difference, however, between being willing to talk about an issue and being ready to act.
It is a difference between those who still believe that all governments can do is get out of the way and those who believe there is a real role for governments in first reviving our economies, and then setting the right rules for future success. The challenge therefore is not just to capitalism but also to politics.
At the Group of 20 summit in London three years ago, Prime Minister Gordon Brown and President Obama led concerted action to guide the world economy from the brink. Three years later, some governments are engaging in a short-sighted fiscal protectionism that can only lead to stunted growth.
If we learned anything from the 1930s, it was that governments cannot shrug their shoulders and watch as their own people are consigned to unemployment. I find it tragic and astonishing that some governments need to learn this lesson again.
Nor should we forget the causes of the current growth and debt crisis as we seek to put our economies on a more sustainable footing.
Both the United States and Britain suffered because their economies were overly reliant on the financial sector's artificial profits; living standards for the many worsened while the economic rewards skewed to the top 1 percent; a capitalist model encouraged short-term decision-making oriented toward quarterly profits rather than long-term health; and vested interests -- from giant banks to media moguls --were deemed too big to fail or too powerful to challenge.
We need to recognize that the trickle-down promise of conservative theorists has turned into a gravity-defying reality in which wealth has flowed upward disproportionately and, too often, undeservedly. To address properly the squeeze in middle-class incomes on both sides of the Atlantic requires fresh thinking from governments about how people train for their working lives and what a living wage should be.
Governments can set better -- not necessarily more -- rules to encourage productive businesses that invest, invent, train, make and sell real products and services. We need rules that discourage the predatory behavior of those seeking the fast buck through hostile takeovers and asset-stripping that do not have the interests of the shareholders, the employees or the economy at heart. In Britain, the Labour Party is considering how we can raise the bar for corporate takeovers so that companies' futures are not determined by just a handful of speculators.
And governments must remember they are elected to serve the people, not the powerful lobbies who can pay for access or influence. Too often the real enemies of market capitalism are some of the leading beneficiaries of the current model, which favors price-gouging cartels and consumer exploitation. In Britain, airlines need to be more upfront about the true cost of their fares, and pension firms cannot continue to sign up customers for products that can chip away at their retirement income through exorbitant management fees.
As President Obama noted in his State of the Union address on Tuesday, it is neither socially nor economically sustainable for the wealthiest and most powerful to avoid paying their fair share. I support proposals for a financial transactions tax levied equally on the major trading centers from Hong Kong and Singapore to Wall Street and the City of London. The British government needs to show more leadership on this issue in Europe -- and all members of G-20 need to help make it happen.
Britain loses billions of pounds in revenues because of outdated rules that allow our richest citizens to keep their money in off-shore tax havens. Tax authorities need to know about income and wealth hidden behind front companies, trusts and other complex financial products. If these rules cannot be changed by international agreement, progressive governments should go ahead and do it themselves.
As President Obama said in his State of the Union address this week, it is ''common sense'' to ask a billionaire to pay, proportionally, at least as much as his secretary in taxes. Indeed, in Davos this week, I will look around the room and ask myself who pays taxes at a higher rate -- those eating the soup or those serving it?
In my country, I believe that changing the rules of capitalism will mean a change of government. But more generally, it will require a change in what citizens expect and ask of politics. The question is not so much whether 20th-century capitalism is failing 21st-century society but whether politics can rise to the challenge of changing a flawed economic model.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (74%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GORDON BROWN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1204 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2390 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Stuck to Caustic Path in Ethics Battles

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Newt Gingrich had an urgent warning for conservatives: Jim Wright, the Democratic speaker of the House, was out to destroy America.
It was April 1988, a month before Mr. Gingrich, an up-and-coming Republican congressman, shocked colleagues by pressing ethics charges against the powerful Mr. Wright. Now, he was singling out the speaker as a major obstacle in a coming ''civil war'' with liberals.
''This war has to be fought with a scale and a duration and a savagery that is only true of civil wars,'' Mr. Gingrich said, in a speech to the conservative Heritage Foundation. He branded Mr. Wright as part of ''the hard left,'' whose members, he warned, ''will try by chameleon-like actions to destroy our country.''
The brutal civil war Mr. Gingrich predicted did indeed come to pass, during a nearly decadelong conflict in which ethics charges were the primary weapon. Mr. Gingrich lodged a complaint against Mr. Wright, which cost the Democratic speaker his job. Democrats, in turn, bombarded Mr. Gingrich with accusations of ethical impropriety, which led to a $300,000 fine and a reprimand for bringing discredit to the House. 
Mr. Gingrich, Democrats and Republicans here agree,emerged as one of Washington's most aggressive practitioners of slash-and-burn politics; many fault him for erasing whatever civility once existed in the capital. He believed, and preached, that harsh language could win elections; in 1990, the political action committee he ran, Gopac, instructed Republican candidates to learn to ''speak like Newt,'' and offered a list of words to describe Democrats -- like decay, traitors, radical, sick, destroy, pathetic, corrupt and shame.
Those same qualities are now on display as Mr. Gingrich, a Republican candidate for president, turns his caustic tongue against Republicans and Democrats alike. He has tried to cut down Mitt Romney as promoting ''pious baloney,'' branded President Obama ''the food stamp president'' and mocked him for living on ''Planet Obama.'' He has gone after the ''elite media'' as well, denouncing the ''destructive, vicious, negative nature'' of those whose questions he does not like.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Gingrich, whose spokesman did not return calls or e-mails seeking comment for this article, promotes himself as an elder Republican statesman, often reminding voters that as House speaker, he worked with a Democratic president, Bill Clinton, to balance the budget and overhaul the welfare system.
But he neglects to mention that he also presided over Mr. Clinton's impeachment (which later provoked charges of hypocrisy, because the case concerned Mr. Clinton's adulterous behavior while Mr. Gingrich himself was having an extramarital affair) or that his bombastic style helped cost him his speakership; he stepped down in 1999.
Mr. Gingrich's recent surge in the polls makes leading Republicans nervous; one, Bob Dole of Kansas, the former Senate majority leader, endorsed Mr. Romney on Thursday, saying Mr. Gingrich ''loved picking a fight.'' And his history of combat with Democrats -- ''the enemy of normal Americans,'' Mr. Gingrich once called them -- leads people in both parties to wonder if he could work in a bipartisan way.
''Government is dysfunctional because the presidency and Congress no longer have the ability to compromise, and I put Newt at the heart of that,'' said Mickey Edwards, a Republican former congressman from Oklahoma who served in leadership alongside Mr. Gingrich, and who is neutral in the Republican primary.
''When he was in the House,'' Mr. Edwards added, ''he had some temptation to work across party lines because he wanted to be considered an equal with Bill Clinton. But I think if you were in a position where Newt had the upper hand as president, his style would not be to find a way to compromise, but to turn up the heat on Democrats.''
Ethics as a Weapon
Mr. Gingrich arrived on Capitol Hill in January 1979, as a freshman Republican from Georgia, having already made ethics an issue in his first political campaigns.
Once in Washington, Mr. Gingrich found an obvious target: Representative Charles C. Diggs, a Michigan Democrat and founder of the Congressional Black Caucus who had been convicted of taking kickbacks from staff members but re-elected while awaiting sentencing. Most newcomers to Congress would have remained silent on a delicate matter involving a senior member. But Mr. Gingrich led the charge to expel Mr. Diggs, confiding to one close colleague that it was a ''gutsy thing to do,'' because he risked accusations of racism. The House eventually censured Mr. Diggs, and he quit in disgrace.
Over time, Mr. Gingrich sought to make ethics his signature issue, an effort aimed mostly at Democrats.
He pushed for, and won, harsher punishment for two lawmakers, one a Republican and one a Democrat, who were accused of sexual misconduct. He railed against Democrats over a disputed election in Indiana, accusing them of stealing the seat, and maneuvered quietly behind the scenes to orchestrate the work of the so-called Gang of Seven, which in the early 1990s created a ruckus over lawmakers' overdrafts at the private House bank and other Congressional perks. He called for the censure of Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat, over ethical breaches involving the use of his office to help a male prostitute. Mr. Frank received a lesser reprimand instead.
''Newt,'' Mr. Frank says today, ''is the single most influential factor in replacing the politics in which you accepted the bona fides of your opponents and disagreed with them civilly with the politics of insisting that your opponents are bad people.''
Mr. Gingrich has said he was on a mission to ''repair the integrity of the House,'' but critics are skeptical. Fred Wertheimer, then the head of Common Cause, says Mr. Gingrich saw ethics charges as ''a vehicle for destroying the House as an institution and taking over what was left.''
But Steven M. Gillon, a University of Oklahoma historian who has written a book about Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Clinton, offers another explanation. Southern Republicans in the post-civil rights era often used race as a wedge issue, Mr. Gillon said. But Mr. Gingrich, a one-time Rockefeller Republican who embraced integration, needed a different line of attack. ''He needed to find a wedge that would undermine the moral credibility of the Democratic Party,'' Mr. Gillon said, adding, ''He could use ethics as sort of a bludgeon, and that's what he did.''
Empty House, Big Microphone
Mr. Gingrich's arrival in Congress coincided with the rise of C-Span, the cable channel that televised House proceedings, and he figured out early on how to combine his gift for oratory with the power of the camera. Night after night, he would lambaste Democrats, speaking in an empty House chamber after the day's legislative business was done. Mr. Gingrich would needle Democrats, challenging them to come forward and defend themselves. No one did, because no one was there.
Things came to a head in May 1984, on a day when the chamber was full. Mr. Gingrich had been pounding a group of Democrats over a letter they had written to Daniel Ortega, the Nicaraguan leader, accusing them of spreading ''communist propaganda.'' Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the House speaker, let loose.
''You deliberately stood in that well before an empty House, and challenged these people, and challenged their Americanism,'' he roared, wagging his forefinger at Mr. Gingrich, ''and it's the lowest thing I've ever seen in my 32 years in Congress.''
It was a rare breach of decorum; Mr. Gingrich had gotten the better of Mr. O'Neill. House rules forbid personal insults, so Mr. O'Neill's words were ''taken down''-- stricken from the record, a rare rebuke and a turning point, many here say, in relations between Republicans and Democrats.
''That was the moment he became a real star,'' said John J. Pitney Jr., a professor at Claremont McKenna College, who has written extensively about Mr. Gingrich and polarization in Congress. ''It was David taking on Goliath.''
Some Republicans were uneasy. Among them was Trent Lott of Mississippi, then the Republican whip. Mr. Lott had called for Mr. O'Neill's remarks to be stricken. Even so, he says he was uncomfortable with Mr. Gingrich's take-no-prisoners rhetorical style.
''Newt was willing to tear up the system to get the majority,'' Mr. Lott, who supports Mitt Romney, said in an interview last year, before Mr. Gingrich's recent surge in the polls. ''It got to be a really negative pit over there, but that was probably the beginnings of the Republicans being able to take control.''
A Fight Becomes a War
August 1987 was a ''decisive moment'' for Mr. Gingrich, he wrote in his 1998 mea culpa book, ''Lessons Learned the Hard Way.'' It was when he began to view his fight with Democrats as a civil war. ''One culture or the other,'' he wrote, ''would have to go.''
By this time, Mr. Gingrich had already taken charge of Gopac, a once-sleepy political action committee dedicated to electing Republicans. Mr. Gingrich pumped it up into a fund-raising machine and a training organization in which Republican candidates were given step-by-step information on how to run for office. He produced seminars and a series of cassette tapes; today hundreds, if not thousands, of Republican officeholders in states around the country can recall riding around in their cars listening to Mr. Gingrich's formula for winning.
Mr. Edwards, the former Republican congressman, described the tapes as ''all about how to demonize the opposition, how to use invective and scary language,'' adding: ''It wasn't that he trained them to have a better understanding of foreign policy, or economic policy. They were techniques in how to wage a nasty partisan war against your opponent.''
By August 1987, that opponent, for Mr. Gingrich at least, was Mr. Wright, the House speaker, whom he viewed as covering for the corrupt Democratic Party.
Mr. Gingrich spent more than a year making speeches against Mr. Wright, branding him ''the least ethical speaker of the 20th century.'' The charge that finally stuck involved a vanity book, ''Reflections of a Public Man,'' that Mr. Wright sold in bulk to lobbyists and supporters, under an unusual agreement for him to receive 55% of the royalties. (Years later, Mr. Gingrich would come under attack for his own book deal.)
The House Ethics Committee found ''reason to believe'' that Mr. Wright had violated House rules in 69 instances; seeking to avoid a drawn out disciplinary hearing, he resigned in June 1989, giving Mr. Gingrich his biggest Democratic scalp.
''He was as partisan as Newt was partisan,'' Wilma Goldstein, a former Republican National Committee official who worked closely with Mr. Gingrich, said of Mr. Wright. ''So Newt just decided, 'By God, if we're going to take them down, let's start at the top.' ''
But again, some Republicans were uncomfortable. Mr. Gingrich, by then the Republican whip, was clearly angling to replace the House Republican leader, Robert H. Michel, viewed by many in his party as too accommodating to Democrats. Mr. Michel, now 88, recalls warning Mr. Gingrich that what goes around comes around.
''I would say, 'Newt, these fellows over there are not our enemy, they're our political adversaries,' '' Mr. Michel said. He reminded him that Democrats and Republicans often traded places in leadership. ''That could happen to you,'' Mr. Michel recalled saying. ''If you don't treat them with respect, boy, the next time around, they have a chance to really put the shivs to you.''
Time for Payback
Mr. Michel, it turned out, was right.
Mr. Gingrich climbed his way to the speakership in January 1995, and once he got there vowed to take the high road. He had spent years labeling Democrats as ''counterculture'' proponents of the ''liberal welfare state,'' and in 1994 went so far as to suggest the case of Susan Smith, a South Carolina mother who murdered her two sons, was evidence of ''how sick the society is getting and how much we need to change things'' by electing Republicans.
But once in power, he pledged to work cooperatively with Mr. Clinton, explaining that being in the majority freed him to be more conciliatory. ''In the minority,'' he said then, ''it's like the defense in football. You're in a different position. You have to be more combative.''
It was too late. Democrats were already bombarding him with ethics charges. During his bid for re-election, Mr. Gingrich's opponent filed a complaint accusing him of using a college course, ''Renewing American Civilization,'' to promote a partisan agenda, improperly mixing Gopac money with public funds.
And once he won, Mr. Gingrich came under withering criticism for a $4.5 million book advance from HarperCollins, whose owner, Rupert Murdoch, had business pending before the Congress. Under pressure, Mr. Gingrich turned down the advance. (His defense was that unlike Mr. Wright, he was writing ''a real book.'')
Over the course of two years, more than 80 charges -- ranging from alleged tax violations to complaints that he used Gopac money to finance one of his own campaigns -- were filed against Mr. Gingrich with the House Ethics Committee. The convoluted inquiry consumed official Washington, with Democrats saying he was getting what he deserved and Republicans calling it a political vendetta.
''Yes, he filed ethics charges against Speaker Wright, and I would concede that it wasn't just because Newt was out to clean up Congress,'' said Dan Meyer, a former Gingrich aide. ''I think he used it as a partisan tactic, but the scale of the response was way out of proportion.''
In the end, nearly all of the charges were dismissed. But the ethics committee did find that Mr. Gingrich had used tax-exempt money to promote Republican goals, and given the panel inaccurate information for its inquiry.
Mr. Gingrich formally apologized, conceding he had brought discredit on the House. He had always regarded himself as a ''transformative figure'' who would change the course of history, but on Jan. 21, 1997, he made history in another way.
The House voted 395-28 to reprimand him and fine him $300,000, making him the first speaker ever disciplined for unethical conduct.
The Long Run: Articles in this series are exploring the lives and careers of the candidates for president in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1995, Newt Gingrich, above right, the House speaker, headed into a hearing on ethics complaints that had been filed against him. The committee found against him. Mr. Gingrich himself had challenged other lawmakers on ethics issues, including Jim Wright, the Democratic speaker, below left, and Charles C. Diggs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/NEW YORK TIMES
MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOB DAUGHERTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ETHICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); JAMES F WRIGHT (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1205 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Leaner Operations Give U.S. Airlines a Profitable Year

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Despite everything that has been working against them, from a dismal global economy to rising fuel prices, the nation's top airlines -- United Continental Holdings, Delta Air Lines, US Airways, and Southwest Airlines -- all turned a profit last year.
Their recipe for success has been straightforward: fewer airlines, fewer planes and fewer seats combined with higher ticket prices and more fees. 
While the United States economy is showing signs of strength, the airlines have indicated in their latest earnings reports that they intend to stick to the formula. Oil prices last year averaged about $100 a barrel, about the same level as in 2008. But the airlines delivered higher-than-expected profits for 2011, while they lost 17 cents for every dollar of revenue they generated in 2008. In those three years, Delta completed its purchase of Northwest Airlines, United merged with Continental, and Southwest bought AirTran Airways.
Meanwhile, American Airlines, left out of the latest round of consolidation, filed for bankruptcy protection in November after losing billions of dollars in recent years. The carrier hopes to be able to pare its costs during the restructuring process and emerge as a leaner, profitable carrier. That prospect has also set off renewed talk about a possible bid for American Airlines by one of its competitors, perhaps Delta or US Airways.
''What the industry has done in three years is remarkable,'' said William S. Swelbar, a research engineer in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's International Center for Air Transportation. ''Airlines seem to be much more stable than I can remember in decades. Consolidation is having a significant impact on pricing, no doubt. And the industry has rid itself of unprofitable routes.''
The airlines hope they can continue to raise revenue this year faster than fuel prices rise, while cutting capacity to offset weak demand.
Labor relations are likely to take center stage in 2012. As part of its restructuring process, American is seeking to renegotiate its work agreements with pilots and other labor groups in a bid to cut its costs, which are the highest among its peers. These talks may put pressure on Delta and United, also facing labor negotiations this year, to address costs that have been slowly rising in past years.
United, the nation's top carrier since its 2010 merger with Continental Airlines, said Thursday that it cut its capacity, or the number of seats flown, by 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile, it increased ticket prices by 9 percent over the same period a year earlier. As a result, United narrowed its fourth-quarter net loss to $138 million, an improvement from its loss of $325 million in the year-earlier period, the company said.
The loss was largely attributed to costs associated with the merger. Revenue was up 5.5 percent, to $8.9 billion, in the quarter. Excluding one-time items of $247 million, United reported a net income of $109 million in the fourth quarter. The company recorded a full-year profit of $840 million, down 12 percent from 2010.
United's shares rose 6.3 percent to $21.70 on Thursday. Shares of Delta also rose for a second day after the company said Wednesday that fourth-quarter profit surged to $425 million, up from $19 million in the year-earlier period. In the quarter, which the company said was its most profitable ever for that period, Delta filled nearly 82 percent of its seats while it reduced capacity by 3.5 percent. As a result of higher ticket prices and higher fees, Delta increased its overall revenue by 11 percent in 2011, even as it operated 30 fewer planes than the previous year, according to Richard Anderson, the company's chief executive.
Delta reduced its capacity to most of its destinations, especially Europe, which saw a 10 percent drop. Latin America was a rare exception: Delta increased capacity there by 5 percent. The company said it would continue to reduce its capacity in the first quarter by 3 to 5 percent.
At Southwest Airlines, net income grew 16 percent in the fourth quarter, to $152 million, with a 32 percent jump in revenue to $4.1 billion. US Airways said its net income declined by 35 percent to $18 million in the fourth quarter. Even though its revenue in that period rose 8.5 percent to $3.2 billion, fuel costs rose faster.
Alaska Airlines and JetBlue Airways also posted a profit in the last quarter. JetBlue is one of the industry's few exceptions in raising its capacity in 2011 -- the airline increased seats by 10 percent in the fourth quarter, with new flights to the Caribbean and to Boston. It expects to keep adding more flights to its schedule this year.
The airlines said they expected these gains to continue in the first quarter of 2012.
''If anything, the new year has seen a step-up in business demand,'' the US Airways president, Scott Kirby, said on Wednesday. ''The pricing environment remains strong and the industry is successfully recovering high fuel prices.''
Separately, US Airways confirmed this week that it was interested in exploring a deal with American Airlines. A combination between US Airways and American would create a carrier roughly the same size as United, Delta and Southwest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Passengers leaving a JetBlue plane in California. After a round of mergers, America's airlines expect their recent gains, including higher prices, to continue in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REED SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MERGERS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (88%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (62%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1206 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Waning Support For Wind And Solar

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Assisted by technological innovation and years of subsidies, the cost of wind and solar power has fallen sharply -- so much so that the two industries say that they can sometimes deliver cleaner electricity at prices competitive with power made from fossil fuels.
At the same time, wind and solar companies are telling Congress that they cannot be truly competitive and keep creating jobs without a few more years of government support.
Their efforts received a boost on Thursday from President Obama, who called for a package of tax credits for renewable power as part of a broader energy plan that he outlined while on a campaign swing through Nevada and Colorado.
But the lobbying by the wind and solar industries comes at a time when there is little enthusiasm for alternative-energy subsidies in Washington. 
Overall concerns about the deficit are making lawmakers more skeptical about any new tax breaks for business in general. And taxpayer losses of more than half a billion dollars on Solyndra, a bankrupt maker of solar modules that defaulted on a federal loan, has tarnished the image of renewable power in particular.
''Most of the folks I think recognize that this is not a Solyndra effort here,'' said Representative David G. Reichert, Republican of Washington, who introduced a bill to extend a renewable tax credit last year. Solyndra was financed under a now-expired program, part of the 2009 stimulus package, that provided government loan guarantees for clean-energy projects, some of which administration officials expected to be risky.
The wind and solar companies argue that the tax breaks they are seeking are different. The tax credits can be taken only by businesses that are already up and running, so taxpayers are less likely to be stuck subsidizing a failing company, proponents say.
''This is a program that doesn't pick winners or losers,'' said Rhone Resch, president and chief executive of the Solar Energy Industries Association. ''It's hard to argue against a program like this that is creating jobs.''
Without the new breaks, industry executives warn, they will be forced to scale back production and eliminate jobs in a still-weak economy.
The American division of Iberdrola, a big Spanish producer of wind turbines, is already feeling the impending loss of one tax break that expires this year. ''We've seen the prospects for new wind farms really fall off,'' said Donald Furman, a senior vice president at Iberdrola Renewables, which announced this week that it was laying off 50 employees. ''We're not getting out of the business and we're not in any financial trouble, but we are doing the prudent thing so that we don't have issues.''
The tax break that Iberdrola and other wind companies rely on, called the production tax credit, has been in place since 1992 but after repeated extensions is now scheduled to expire at the end of 2012. It allows for a credit of 2.2 cents per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated for the first 10 years of a project's operation, which the industry says is sometimes enough to eliminate the price difference between wind power and fossil fuels.
The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation recently estimated that the production tax credit would cost the government $6.8 billion from 2011 to 2015 for projects in place before the end of this year.
The other tax break, which expired at the end of last year and was especially popular with solar companies, allows renewable energy companies to get 30 percent of the cost of a new project back as a cash grant once construction is complete. Without the cash grant program, a company can still take the 30 percent credit, but must spread the benefit over a period of years. The industry says the grant program is more effective because it encourages a broader range of private investors to help finance its projects.
As of early this year, the cash-grant program, known as the 1603 program, had awarded $1.76 billion for more than 22,000 solar projects, according to the Treasury Department.
Mr. Obama, who has been a steadfast supporter of clean-energy programs, has already begun making a case for new government investment in clean energy projects as a way to foster both energy independence and employment at a time when Capitol Hill evaluates new laws in terms of job creation as well as budget cost or savings.
''Because of federal investments, renewable energy use -- sources like wind and solar -- has nearly doubled,'' Mr. Obama said at a stop at Buckley Air Force Base in Aurora, Colo., where he promoted the increasing use of renewable power by the military and repeated a call for Congress to approve the tax credits. ''Thousands of Americans have jobs because of those efforts.''
Mr. Obama used his trip to press for increased use of liquid natural gas in transportation, appearing at a United Parcel Service center in Las Vegas that received a stimulus grant to support natural gas-fueled trucks. He also said that the Interior Department would open up about 38 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico to gas and oil exploration and development, selling leases in June. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management estimates drilling there could yield one billion barrels of oil and four trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
According to the American Wind Energy Association, wind projects account for more than a third of all the new electric generation installed in recent years, while over the last six years, domestic wind turbine production has grown twelvefold, to more than 400 facilities in 43 states. A recent study by Navigant Consulting found that this year the industry would support 78,000 jobs, but that the number would fall to 41,000 in 2013 without an extension of the production tax credit.
Solar, too, is growing quickly in the United States. According to the Solar Energy Industries Association, more solar was installed in the third quarter of 2011 than in all of 2009 combined. A one-year extension of the 1603 tax-grant program would create an additional 37,000 solar industry jobs in 2012, according to a report by EuPD Research.
Lobbyists for both industries say the new tax breaks need to be passed quickly and are trying to get Congress to include them in a bill to extend the payroll tax cut.
That bill, like all tax cuts these days, has Congress at loggerheads. ''But true performance-based incentives, where incentives are only provided when actual production occurs, seem to be maintaining their support,'' said Robert Gramlich, senior vice president for public policy for the American Wind Energy Association.
How this will play out in Congress is anybody's guess, lawmakers say. Mr. Reichert said the credits were not yet part of the negotiations over the payroll tax cut, which is due to expire at the end of February.
Republican leaders may look to revive the Keystone XL oil pipeline -- as proposed, the pipeline would run 1,700 miles from oil sands in Canada to refineries on the Gulf Coast -- as part of a compromise to approve the renewable energy credits, according to lobbyists and lawmakers involved in the discussions.
But there is a lot of ideological opposition to more tax credits, said Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico and the chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, who supports the extension.
''The rhetoric is that the government should get out of the way,'' he said. ''That gets translated into opposition to a lot of these things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inspecting a turbine in Rio Vista, Calif. The cost of wind power has fallen.
Clean-energy companies say they need continued support to stay competitive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN JAMES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
The American division of Iberdrola, a turbine maker, is laying off workers to stay ''prudent.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIGAR MEHTA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Clean-energy executives warn that they may need to scale back production and eliminate jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM RYDBOM/GREELEY TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%); IBERDROLA SA (58%); IBERDROLA RENEWABLES INC (51%)

TICKER: IBE (MCE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); DAVID G REICHERT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1207 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Hope, But Not Much Change

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The Simpson-Bowles report wasn't just a policy document. For a few months, it expanded the national debate. Everybody seemed to realize that the country was beset by large challenges that could no longer be neglected: soaring debt, lagging growth, wage stagnation, family breakdown, political dysfunction.
Suddenly, there was a sense of urgency. There were grand plans coming from all directions. 
A bipartisan group of 65 senators gathered to think about government afresh. The Times had a fantastic online budget calculator to let readers reinvent government according to their own priorities.
The Peter G. Peterson Foundation asked six think tanks from across the political spectrum to offer fiscal solutions. The proposals teemed with big ideas: fundamental tax reform that would simplify the code and boost growth; fundamental entitlement reform to restrain cost; doubling spending on science, pre-K education and adult retraining; taxing fossil fuels to spur innovation; shifting from a consumption-led to an investment-led economy.
It's sad to compare that era of bigness to the medium-sized policy morsels that President Obama put in his State of the Union address. He had some big themes in the speech, but the policies were mere appetizers. The Republicans absurdly call Obama a European socialist on the stump, but the Obama we saw Tuesday night was a liberal incrementalist.
There was nothing big, like tax reform or entitlement reform. There was no comprehensive effort to restore trust in government by sweeping away the tax credits and special-interest schemes that entangle Washington. Ninety percent of American workers work in the service economy, but Obama spoke mostly about manufacturing.
Instead, there were a series of modest proposals that poll well. In that sense, it was the Democratic version of Newt Gingrich's original ''Contract With America'' -- a series of medium-size ideas with 80 percent approval ratings.
Some of Obama's ideas are outstanding. Presidential nominees should get an up-or-down vote within 90 days. We should connect community colleges more closely with labor markets. We should raise the income tax rates for millionaires back to Clinton-era levels. We should responsibly promote fracking to develop natural gas.
Some of the ideas were lamentable. Instead of simplifying the tax code, Obama would muddy it up with more tax loopholes for corporations as long as they conformed to this or that industrial policy.
Some of the ideas were just inexplicable. Is the government really going to defund Ivy League science labs if Ivy League colleges raise their tuitions?
But the core point is that these policies are incremental, not transformational. You could pass them all and the country might be slightly better off or slightly worse off, but it wouldn't be on a different trajectory.
It's odd that an administration that once wanted to do everything all at once now should be so gradualist. Maybe its members were scarred by the traumas of health care and the 2010 election. Maybe they just want to win the election, so every policy has to be politically easy instead of politically challenging.
Maybe the president's aides believe that most of our problems are overhyped. I have heard them hint that in dozens of interviews. To balance the budget, we only need to bend revenues and taxes a bit. To compete with China, we only need to shift the playing field a bit.
Maybe the president's cautious tendencies are just coming out.
In normal times, that sober, incremental approach would be admirable. In normal times, the best sort of change is gradual, flexible and constant. But these are not normal times. This is not Clinton's second term, or Eisenhower's. The fiscal train wreck is coming. The current U.S. growth model is insufficient. The American family and the American political system are cracking up.
Legislatively, the president has to build a center-left governing majority that can overwhelm those Republicans who will never support him. That can be done only with ground-shifting policies. Politically, the president has to resonate with voters who feel the country is on the wrong track. Prudentially, the president has to prepare for the likelihood that the economy is going to hit another rough patch this year -- if Greece leaves the euro or if the French banks implode or if the Iranian crisis comes to a head. If any of that happens, the desire for profound change would be overwhelming and the candidate with a few carefully targeted tax credits would get blown away.
This election is about averting national decline. The president is making a mistake in ceding the size advantage to the Republicans. The Republicans at least speak with epic alarm about the nation's problems. They are unified behind big tax and welfare state reforms that would purge Washington and shake things up.
The president is making a mistake in running a Sunset Boulevard campaign: I am big; it's my presidency that got small.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX REFORM (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAX RELIEF (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); INCOME TAX (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (53%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1208 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: At Euro Talks, a Calm Arm-Twister From the U.S.

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY; Steven Erlanger and Liz Alderman in Paris and Nicholas Kulish in Berlin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
WASHINGTON -- The world's financiers and finance ministers have descended on the annual forum in Davos, Switzerland, at another perilous moment, with the sovereign debt woes in Europe sapping strength from emerging markets and threatening global growth.
Every nation's rebound is at risk, including that of the United States -- a particular concern for President Obama, who wants to trumpet the country's renewed strength during his re-election campaign.
Lael Brainard, America's top financial diplomat, landed Thursday in Switzerland to help coax the European negotiations along. As the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, she has the urgent task of helping to persuade the Europeans to head off a financial crisis by building a firewall to quiet the markets once and for all -- and doing so without any formal role in their negotiations. It is at times an awkward role, but the stakes are enormous, not just for the United States but for preservation of the euro zone and its currency.
Ms. Brainard, 49, operates mostly behind the scenes, in private phone calls and discreet visits -- 17 trips to Europe alone in the last two years. 
''They trust her, they reach out to her, they talk to her for ideas and to get us to engage,'' said Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, who is also in Davos this week.
When Greece began unsettling markets late in 2009, Ms. Brainard started raising concerns that it could turn into a Continentwide issue. Since then, Ms. Brainard's task has been navigating the convoluted world of European politics, where at times it seems every small party from Slovakia to Portugal has a say in major decisions.
Many European policy makers bristle at America inserting itself into local politics. And many blame its fiscal laxity and subprime mortgages for starting the global crisis in the first place.
''She forgets sometimes that when she points a finger at Europe, three fingers are pointing back at her,'' one German finance ministry official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid hurting relations.
Ms. Brainard acknowledged the delicacy of the situation in an interview in her high-ceilinged, gold-leafed office overlooking the White House.
''Based on our own experience with TARP, we have a very good sense of the political difficulty associated with these things,'' she said, a reference to the Troubled Asset Relief Program, Washington's bank bailout program. ''But we continue to urge action because it's just too important not to.''
Treasury officials explained that European leaders wanted them there, both to advise on the best ways to quiet financial markets and to help arbitrate the frequent internecine clashes among the euro zone countries.
But she has also twisted arms when necessary, developing a reputation as a calm but extraordinarily persistent negotiator.
In recent weeks, talks have centered on how the International Monetary Fund might assist in resolving the euro crisis. Many European politicians want the fund to marshal financing from cash-rich countries like China and Brazil to help in Europe. The United States, acting as a proxy for several of those cash-rich emerging countries, wants Europe to add billions of its own money to its bailout funds first.
Ms. Brainard and Mr. Geithner delivered that message -- in person, behind closed doors, days before a European summit meeting on strict new fiscal rules last month. It did not necessarily go over well. Washington was ''not helpful in reinforcing I.M.F. resources,'' a French official said. ''It discourages others from doing the same.''
But last week, the International Monetary Fund announced that it would seek to raise up to $500 billion in new lending capacity, about half from countries in the European Union and half from elsewhere. This week, it started formally calling for Europe to expand its own firewall in concert, as American officials had urged for months. An official with knowledge of the talks, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid disturbing them, said Europe might add 250 billion euros of capacity to its permanent and temporary bailout funds, lifting their lending capacity to more than $1 trillion.
At times, the Treasury Department's presence has proved crucial in moving Europe back from the brink. In spring 2010, for instance, it persuaded European leaders to increase the size of a bailout for Greece by a factor of 10.
Throughout such tough negotiations, Ms. Brainard has won a reputation as even-keeled, never ruffled and extraordinarily detailed. (One colleague described her as ''Vulcan.'')
''She smiles and has a very soft tone but is tough as nails on the substance. You cannot underestimate her,'' the German official said.
Ramon Fernandez, the powerful head of the French treasury said, ''I have never seen her lose her temper. She never uses the United States' position to say, 'This is it. I'm the power.' ''
Europeans like Ms. Brainard's sensitivity to political culture as well: she is fluent in German, and was raised in Poland and Germany, the daughter of a Foreign Service officer during the cold war. ''I'm viscerally and experientially aware of the deep divisions that were healed by European integration,'' Ms. Brainard said, ''and just how fundamentally divided Europe was very few decades ago, and how important it is for this to succeed.''
After earning a doctorate in economics from Harvard, Ms. Brainard joined the staff of the National Economic Council during the Clinton administration, working on international issues like the Mexican peso and Asian financial crises.
She then became one of the government's youngest ''sherpas,'' as the personal representatives of heads of state are called, negotiating for the United States before international summit meetings.
''Lael was not on the shortlist at first because she was young and less well known,'' said Gene Sperling, then and now the head of the White House National Economic Council. ''But at some point, I just thought: 'This is crazy. She is proving every day she can do this job as well as anyone.' ''
That head-down, no-drama reputation remains. ''She's a machine,'' said Sharon Yuan, the deputy assistant Treasury secretary for trade and investment policy, describing her schedule of international flights interrupted by marathon meetings interrupted by demands in Washington.
She has also become a trusted adviser to Mr. Geithner, whom she has known since the Clinton administration, when he held her job.
''Given the scale of our challenges, I've spent the vast majority of my time as secretary focused on the U.S. economy, in stark contrast to my concentration at Treasury in years past,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''Because of how strong Lael is, I've been able to delegate a significant role to her on the global financial agenda. And that has been of enormous benefit to the president and to me.''
Though Europe has occupied much of Ms. Brainard's attention, ''we are trying to forge a completely different relationship with the Chinas and the Indias,'' she said. ''We're trying to share the burden and responsibility of steering the global economy with those countries,'' a primary reason the Obama administration pushed for the Group of 20 to supplant the Group of 8 as the main stage for international economic negotiations.
''It is not how I expected to spend my time at Treasury,'' Ms. Brainard said. But, she added, ''There is no more important issue right now.''
Correction: February 1, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Friday with an article about the role of Lael Brainard, America's top financial diplomat, in negotiations over Europe's debt crisis misidentified the professional role of one of the people shown. Robert B. Zoellick, at the left, is the chief executive of the World Bank; he is not a member of President Obama's financial team.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2012

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with an article about the role of Lael Brainard, America's top financial diplomat, in negotiations over Europe's debt crisis misidentified the professional role of one of the people shown. Robert B. Zoellick, at the left, is the chief executive of the World Bank; he is not a member of President Obama's financial team.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lael Brainard, the top American financial diplomat, works behind the scenes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 President Obama with Lael Brainard and other members of his financial team in November. ''You cannot underestimate her,'' said a German finance ministry official in a reference to the negotiator's calm yet persistent demeanor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (87%); EURO (87%); EURO ZONE (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); BANK FAILURES (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); SWITZERLAND (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1209 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Auto Retailer Heralds a Turnaround, Citing Demand to Replace Aging Cars

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The nation's biggest automotive retailer on Thursday reported strong financial results for 2011 and suggested the recovery of the American car market had reached a turning point.
AutoNation, which sells domestic and import brands at more than 250 dealerships across the country, said its fourth-quarter revenue increased 13 percent to $3.7 billion and its profits rose by 3 percent to $69 million.
The performance capped the company's best annual results since 2006, and prompted Auto-Nation's chief executive, Michael J. Jackson, to predict a continued surge in vehicle demand this year. 
''There's no question that we have turned the corner,'' Mr. Jackson said in an interview. ''It's undeniable that the auto market is a bright spot in the overall economy.''
Previously, Mr. Jackson had been conservative in his assessments of the industry's turnaround. But he said he expected overall vehicle sales in the United States to increase to 14 million this year, up from 12.8 million sold in 2011.
The assessment is somewhat higher than predictions made by auto manufacturers, which anticipate 2012 sales in the mid-13 millions.
AutoNation is basing its more optimistic forecast on the pent-up demand because of the aging fleet of American cars and trucks, and on the number of fresh models being introduced by the Detroit automakers and their foreign rivals.
The average age of vehicles in the United States hit 10.8 years in 2011, according to statistics compiled by the auto research firm R. L. Polk. That figure is the highest since the firm began recording the numbers in 1995, said Lonnie Miller, an analyst at Polk.
The advanced age of vehicles partly reflects the industry's low sales volumes during the recession of 2008 and 2009. Consumers who delayed buying new vehicles then are returning to the market, according to Mr. Jackson. ''There is a genuine demand for replacements,'' he said. ''We see it every day, all day long, on the showroom floor.''
The hottest segment is pickup trucks, which accumulate more wear and tear from heavy use for business purposes and do not last as long as passenger cars, Mr. Jackson said.
Besides the age of vehicles, consumers are also being lured by the variety of new products being offered by manufacturers.
General Motors and Chrysler, for example, cut back on new products during their financial crises. But since their government-financed bankruptcies, the companies have stepped up their introduction of new vehicles.
During the recession period, only about 15 percent of all vehicles in stock at AutoNation were new models. ''Now we're looking at a 25 percent replacement rate,'' said Mr. Jackson.
Consumers are also finding it easier to get car loans.
Automakers will report their January sales next week. Sales for the month are expected to increase about 6 percent from the same period a year earlier, according to the automotive information Web site Edmunds.com.
''This is a solid start to 2012,'' said Jessica Caldwell, an Edmunds.com analyst. ''The continued momentum suggests that deferred demand is still keeping the auto industry's mini sales bubble afloat.''
Mr. Jackson, however, believes the comeback is more sustainable. He said that the increase in sales was occurring without the assistance of expensive rebates or incentives, and that most manufacturers had reduced production levels to better align their supplies with demand.
''Unlike in Europe, the American industry has taken its medicine and inventories are generally low,'' he said. ''The big thing is the industry is producing what people really want, so they don't need big incentives.''
New-car retailers are also recovering from the supply disruptions experienced by Toyota and Honda after the earthquake and tsunami in Japan last year.
AutoNation was started in the mid-1990s and has grown into the largest independent chain of automotive retailers in the United States. It sells 32 brands of vehicles in 15 states, and has sold more than eight million vehicles since it began. The company's results nosedived during the recession, when its publicly traded stock dropped to as low as $7 a share in 2009. But its fortunes have recovered along with the overall industry, and currently trades at about $37.
For all of 2011, AutoNation's revenue increased 11 percent to $13.8 billion from the year earlier. The company also reported a 24 percent increase in profit to $281 million. AutoNation sold about 395,000 vehicles last year, an increase of 8 percent over 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael J. Jackson, chief executive of AutoNation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 AutoNation's dealership in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is one of more than 250 across the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK ELIAS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); STATISTICS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: AUTONATION INC (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: AN (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: MIKE JACKSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1210 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Senate Vote Approves Rise Of $1.2 Trillion In Debt Limit

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted on Thursday to allow a further increase in the federal debt limit, permitting President Obama to borrow $1.2 trillion more to operate a government that spent about 55 percent more than it collected in revenue last year.
The 52-to-44 vote generally followed party lines, with Democrats supporting the increase in borrowing authority and Republicans opposed. 
In the House last week, Republicans passed a ''resolution of disapproval'' to stop the increase in the debt limit. But the Senate refused on Thursday to take up that measure.
The upshot is that the debt limit will rise immediately to $16.4 trillion, from the current ceiling of $15.2 trillion.
House Republicans, led by Speaker John A. Boehner, boast that they have changed the conversation in Washington so that lawmakers focus on how to cut spending.
But Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, complained that the Senate was allowing the debt limit to rise in a perfunctory way, with little debate.
''Little has changed in Washington in the last five years,'' Mr. Coburn said. ''We've argued, debated and lamented on how to rein in the federal government's costs and out-of-control spending. All the time that was going on, we were on a spending binge, spending money we do not have on things we do not need. Even though we knew we had to borrow more money, Congress has done nothing to avoid raising the debt limit further. Nothing.''
The 2009 economic stimulus law set the debt limit at $12.1 trillion. Congress increased the limit in December 2009 and February 2010 and again last summer, as part of a bipartisan budget agreement.
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, defended the new increase in the debt limit, saying it would not authorize additional spending, but just ensure that the United States could honor past commitments.
''Increasing the debt limit permits the Treasury Department to pay the bills we have already incurred,'' Mr. Baucus said.
Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said that many Republicans who voted against the increase in the debt ceiling had also voted in recent years to spend more on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and on domestic programs.
Mr. Durbin admonished his colleagues: ''Don't vote for the spending if you won't vote for the borrowing, because we know now that they are linked together. They are one and the same.''
In an address to Congress in February 2009, a week after signing the economic stimulus law, Mr. Obama said he would ''cut the deficit in half by the end of my first term in office.''
Republicans said Thursday that Mr. Obama was far from that goal. The deficit -- $1.3 trillion in each of the last two fiscal years -- has declined slightly from 2009, when it totaled $1.4 trillion.
The federal budget deficit is the difference between money spent and money collected by the government in a single year, while the debt represents amounts borrowed by the government over many years to fill those gaps.
With the latest increase in the debt limit, Republicans said, the debt will cross a significant threshold, as it will be roughly the same size as the economy, measured by the gross domestic product.
About two-thirds of the debt is held by the public in the form of Treasury bills, notes and bonds. The rest consists mainly of special-issue government securities held by trust funds for Social Security, Medicare and other programs.
The Treasury still finds that it can borrow at extraordinarily low interest rates. But Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said the United States should learn from the experiences of European countries that spent beyond their means.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TOM COBURN (73%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1211 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Philippines Negotiates Broader Military Ties With U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. and FLOYD WHALEY; John H. Cushman Jr. reported from Washington, and Floyd Whaley from Manila. Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States and the Philippines are exploring increased joint military exercises and other military cooperation that would not entail a major buildup or a reopening of permanent bases, officials in both capitals said Thursday.
Foreign affairs and defense officials from the Philippines are visiting Washington for preliminary talks, and in Manila last week, leaders told a visiting American Senate delegation that the government would welcome closer military ties. The United States has about 600 troops in the Philippines, many of them trainers assisting in countering terrorist groups in the south.
American military interest in the Philippines is a touchy subject, and both sides appeared to be moving carefully. The American presence in the Philippines began with the capture of the islands from Spain in 1898, introducing decades of near-colonial rule. 
The Philippines gained independence in 1946, with the vast American presence often proving an irritant in the country's uneasy relations with the United States. Resentments sharpened after the ouster of President Ferdinand E. Marcos in a popular uprising in 1986, and within a few years, major American air and naval bases were closed, notably at Subic Bay, long the American hub in Asia.
In Manila, the Philippine defense secretary, Voltaire Gazmin, said the talks in Washington would cover intensifying joint military exercises within the limits of a 1999 accord that lets ships and American troops visit temporarily. ''That agreement will prevail,'' The Associated Press quoted him as saying.
Mr. Gazmin's acting chief of staff, Peter Galvez, said by telephone that higher-level discussions would follow in March.
''We always welcome the broadening of relations with our allies, but this is a sensitive area of negotiations because we are constrained by our Constitution from certain agreements,'' Mr. Galvez said. ''U.S. bases in the Philippines would be out of the question.''
Pentagon officials confirmed that the discussions with the Philippines covered more joint military exercises and more frequent American naval visits to Philippine ports. ''This is not about looking for U.S. bases in the Philippines,'' said Capt. John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman. ''This is simply about trying to move our relationship with the Philippine military forward.''
The talks, which were first reported by The Washington Post on Thursday, are the latest attempt to bolster the American presence in the Asia-Pacific region to counter a rising China. President Obama toured the region in November, announcing in Australia that he would deploy thousands of Marines to a base there. During Mr. Obama's Asia tour, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visited the Philippines to reaffirm the military relationship. The Philippines and China both have territorial claims to islands in the South China Sea, or, as it is called in Manila, the West Philippine Sea -- a term that Mrs. Clinton pointedly used.
The delegation of four American senators visiting Manila last week included Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, who saluted what he called ''the dawn of a new era in the relationship between the United States and the Philippines.''
The two countries maintain a mutual defense treaty, signed in 1951, and negotiated an agreement in 1998 that allowed the American military to visit and conduct joint operations in the Philippines. The United States provided the Philippines a coast guard cutter in May, and the two countries have been holding joint military exercises near the islands at the center of the territorial dispute with China.
Subic Bay is now a civilian special economic zone. Although American ships can visit the area, it is unclear how the United States can operate there under the limits imposed by the Philippine Constitution. ''That is what is being discussed right now,'' Mr. Galvez said. The delegation in Washington is led by Pio Lorenzo F. Batino, the Philippine Defense Department's under secretary for legal and legislative affairs and strategic concerns.
Philippine groups that fought to have American military bases ejected in the early 1990s have been monitoring the developments with concern. ''The United States military is violating our sovereignty and intruding on our internal affairs,'' said Lana Linaban, secretary general of the women's rights organization Gabriela. ''In the guise of military support, they are influencing our government.'' She said American bases had created many problems, like increased prostitution, that still erupt after the port calls and joint military exercises.
''We should defend our country with our own military,'' she said.
But a Philippine senator, Richard J. Gordon, who administered Subic Bay after the departure of the Americans, said in a recent interview that greater American military engagement had become vital for the Philippines and for the United States. ''The United States has been losing ground in this region,'' he said. ''You have a China that is beginning to flex its muscles, and it is pushing us around. I don't like that. Its record with its neighbors is not very good. We need to have a fireman nearby.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%) PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); SPAIN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1212 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Jobs, Jobs And Cars

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Mitch Daniels, the former Bush budget director who is now Indiana's governor, made the Republicans' reply to President Obama's State of the Union address. His performance was, well, boring. But he did say something thought-provoking -- and I mean that in the worst way.
For Mr. Daniels tried to wrap his party in the mantle of the late Steve Jobs, whom he portrayed as a great job creator -- which is one thing that Jobs definitely wasn't. And if we ask why Apple has created so few American jobs, we get an insight into what is wrong with the ideology dominating much of our politics. 
Mr. Daniels first berated the president for his ''constant disparagement of people in business,'' which happens to be a complete fabrication. Mr. Obama has never done anything of the sort. He went on: ''The late Steve Jobs -- what a fitting name he had -- created more of them than all those stimulus dollars the president borrowed and blew.''
Clearly, Mr. Daniels doesn't have much of a future in the humor business. But, more to the point, anyone who reads The New York Times knows that his assertion about job creation was completely false: Apple employs very few people in this country.
A big report in The Times last Sunday laid out the facts. Although Apple is now America's biggest U.S. corporation as measured by market value, it employs only 43,000 people in the United States, a tenth as many as General Motors employed when it was the largest American firm.
Apple does, however, indirectly employ around 700,000 people in its various suppliers. Unfortunately, almost none of those people are in America.
Why does Apple manufacture abroad, and especially in China? As the article explained, it's not just about low wages. China also derives big advantages from the fact that so much of the supply chain is already there. A former Apple executive explained: ''You need a thousand rubber gaskets? That's the factory next door. You need a million screws? That factory is a block away.''
This is familiar territory to students of economic geography: the advantages of industrial clusters -- in which producers, specialized suppliers, and workers huddle together to their mutual benefit -- have been a running theme since the 19th century.
And Chinese manufacturing isn't the only conspicuous example of these advantages in the modern world. Germany remains a highly successful exporter even with workers who cost, on average, $44 an hour -- much more than the average cost of American workers. And this success has a lot to do with the support its small and medium-sized companies -- the famed Mittelstand -- provide to each other via shared suppliers and the maintenance of a skilled work force.
The point is that successful companies -- or, at any rate, companies that make a large contribution to a nation's economy -- don't exist in isolation. Prosperity depends on the synergy between companies, on the cluster, not the individual entrepreneur.
But the current Republican worldview has no room for such considerations. From the G.O.P.'s perspective, it's all about the heroic entrepreneur, the John Galt, I mean Steve Jobs-type ''job creator'' who showers benefits on the rest of us and who must, of course, be rewarded with tax rates lower than those paid by many middle-class workers.
And this vision helps explain why Republicans were so furiously opposed to the single most successful policy initiative of recent years: the auto industry bailout.
The case for this bailout -- which Mr. Daniels has denounced as ''crony capitalism'' -- rested crucially on the notion that the survival of any one firm in the industry depended on the survival of the broader industry ''ecology'' created by the cluster of producers and suppliers in America's industrial heartland. If G.M. and Chrysler had been allowed to go under, they would probably have taken much of the supply chain with them -- and Ford would have gone the same way.
Fortunately, the Obama administration didn't let that happen, and the unemployment rate in Michigan, which hit 14.1 percent as the bailout was going into effect, is now down to a still-terrible-but-much-better 9.3 percent. And the details aside, much of Mr. Obama's State of the Union address can be read as an attempt to apply the lessons of that success more broadly.
So we should be grateful to Mr. Daniels for his remarks Tuesday. He got his facts wrong, but he did, unintentionally, manage to highlight an important philosophical difference between the parties. One side believes that economies succeed solely thanks to heroic entrepreneurs; the other has nothing against entrepreneurs, but believes that entrepreneurs need a supportive environment, and that sometimes government has to help create or sustain that supportive environment.
And the view that it takes more than business heroes is the one that fits the facts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (68%); GEOGRAPHY (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1213 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Says Cuts Would Affect Raises, Health Plan and Base Closings

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon took the first major step toward shrinking its budget after a decade of war as it announced Thursday that it wanted to limit pay raises for troops, increase health insurance fees for military retirees and close bases in the United States.
Although the pay-raise limits were described as modest, and would not start until 2015, they are certain to ignite a political fight in Congress, which since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, has almost always raised military salaries beyond what the Pentagon has recommended. 
Increasing health insurance fees for retirees and closing bases are also fraught with political risk, particularly when Republican presidential candidates are charging that President Obama is debilitating the military.
Next year's Pentagon budget is to be $525 billion, down from $531 billion this fiscal year. Even though the Defense Department has been called on to find $259 billion in cuts in the next five years -- and $487 billion over the decade -- its base budget (not counting the costs of Afghanistan or other wars) will rise to $567 billion by 2017. But when adjusted for inflation, the increases are small enough that they will amount to a slight cut of 1.6 percent of the Pentagon's base budget over the next five years.
Nonetheless, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said he was working with about $500 billion less than he had anticipated having on hand through 2017, meaning that the Pentagon had to trim personnel and favorite high-profile weapons programs. ''This has been tough work,'' Mr. Panetta said at an hourlong news conference.
He said that the Army would be reduced over five years to 490,000 troops, down from a peak of 570,000, and that the Marines would be cut to 182,000, down from 202,000. (Ground forces would still be slightly larger than they were before 9/11.) The Pentagon initially will buy fewer F-35 Joint Strike Fighter stealth jets, which are not expected to be in service until at least 2017 and have the distinction of being one of the costliest weapons programs in history. In the Navy, 14 warships will be either retired early or built more slowly.
Both Mr. Panetta and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who also addressed the news conference, repeatedly said that the United States would still maintain the strongest military in the world, an assessment that seemed aimed at Republicans as well as America's adversaries. ''Capability is more important than size,'' General Dempsey said. He added that ''this budget does not lead to a military in decline'' and that ''it is a military that can win any conflict, anywhere.''
Although all American combat troops have been out of Iraq since mid-December and the Obama administration is beginning to withdraw what had been more than 100,000 United States forces in Afghanistan, the Pentagon budget includes a request for $88.4 billion next year, above the $525 billion base budget, to pay for combat operations overseas. Mr. Panetta said that Afghanistan, where there are still 90,000 American troops, accounts for the bulk of that money. This year's budget for combat operations overseas is $115 billion.
Pentagon officials did not specify what the limits would be on military pay increases in 2015 and beyond, when American troops are due to be home from Afghanistan, although they characterized the change as incremental -- an acknowledgment of the political risk of having active and retired members of the armed forces bear the brunt of the budget cuts. ''Let me be clear, nobody's pay will be cut,'' Mr. Panetta said.
Still, the defense secretary has also called military personnel costs ''unsustainable.'' The Pentagon currently spends $181 billion a year, nearly a third of its base budget, on military personnel: $107 billion for salaries and allowances, $50 billion for health care and $24 billion for retirement pay.
Military salaries have risen steadily since the Sept. 11 attacks, and officers have in many cases fared better than enlisted personnel.
A private first class with a family and three years' experience deployed to a war zone took home $26,700 tax-free in 2001, compared with $36,000 today -- an 11 percent raise over inflation. A lieutenant colonel with a family and 20 years' experience deployed to the same war zone took home $84,000 tax-free in 2001, compared with $120,000 today -- a 16 percent increase.
Posing another political challenge was Mr. Panetta's announcement that the president would request another round of base closings and realignments -- never popular with members of Congress who try to preserve military spending, and jobs, in their districts. Pentagon officials said savings from any base closings were not reflected in the five-year budget Mr. Panetta was sending to the White House.
There were already objections on Thursday morning, hours before Mr. Panetta made his public presentation. Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, told reporters that until the United States shut down some of its bases in Europe, ''I'm not going to be able to support'' closing bases in America.
Mr. Panetta has said that two armored Army brigades -- as many as 10,000 troops -- would come home from Europe over the next decade, leaving two brigades and some support troops behind.
Although Mr. Obama has given an aspirational pledge to reduce the nation's nuclear arsenal to zero, there was nothing in Thursday's announcement about reaching that goal. All three legs of the nuclear triad -- bombers, submarine-launched missiles and land-based missiles -- will be preserved. The program to replace the Ohio class nuclear-missile submarine will be delayed by two years.
Mr. Panetta has repeatedly said that he would preserve financing for Special Operations forces, cyberwarfare and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, and the budget makes good on that promise.
The Pentagon did not say how much health insurance fees would increase -- the details are to come in early February. Families now pay $520 a year, far below the cost of a private carrier.
Criticism of the proposed budget came swiftly from senior Republicans on Capitol Hill.
''These cuts reflect President Obama's vision of an America that is weakened, not strengthened, by our men and women in uniform,'' said Howard P. McKeon of California, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. ''To be clear, the impacts of these cuts are far deeper than Congress envisioned.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, left, and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A19) CHARTS: Scaling Back The Defense Budget: The Pentagon has released a plan to cut $259 billion over the next five years, and $487 billion over the next decade
 The 2013 budget proposal will also include an $88.4 billion request for overseas combat operations. (Source: Department of Defense)(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NAVIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (77%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1214 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: North Carolina Governor's Decision May Aid Obama Bid

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
Bev Perdue, a Democrat who barely grabbed the governorship of North Carolina three years ago and never gained widespread popularity, said on Thursday that she would not run for re-election this fall.
The abrupt announcement, which one staff member said took the office by surprise, comes as the Democrats prepare for their presidential nominating convention in Charlotte in September.
For political analysts, the timing suggests an effort to shore up President Obama's bid for re-election by allowing him to distance himself from an unpopular governor in a state that was central to his election in 2008. 
''Certainly, one has to think the Democratic Party has welcomed the news,'' said John Dinan, a professor of political science at Wake Forest University. ''How much of a drag she was going to be is debatable, but she wasn't going to help.''
In a strongly worded statement, Ms. Perdue, 65, cited corrosive politics as a reason she was not seeking to keep her office.
''We live in highly partisan times, where some people seem more worried about scoring political points than working together to address the real challenges our state faces,'' she said. Citing her recent battles over school financing with the Republican-controlled legislature, Ms. Perdue said that ''a re-election campaign in this already divisive environment will make it more difficult to find any bipartisan solutions.''
Ms. Perdue became the first woman to run the state after a hard-fought battle in 2008 with Pat McCrory, a Republican and a former mayor of Charlotte, who is running for the seat again. Her victory was attributed in part to the fight that Mr. Obama staged in the state. He became the first Democratic candidate to win North Carolina in 32 years.
Like governors in many states, Ms. Perdue had to cope with a decline in the economy and, in her last years in office, a legislature controlled by the opposing party.
With re-election money slow to come in and staff members facing ethical violations, Ms. Perdue knew she faced a difficult road.
In November, three of her former campaign aides were indicted on felony charges of obstruction of justice tied to how they were paid. One received a fine and probation. The other two have not entered pleas.
She has also faced criticism for suggesting a two-year postponement of Congressional elections and for her proposal to pay for education with a sales tax increase.
With the primary looming in May, state Democrats began discussing who might be a stronger contender in a state where an important chapter in the presidential race will be written. Suggestions included Lt. Gov. Walter Dalton, Attorney General Roy Cooper, the former White House aide Erskine B. Bowles and Mayor Anthony Foxx of Charlotte.
Also, Representative Brad Miller, a five-term Democrat, said Thursday that he would not seek re-election, to avoid a primary battle against another politician in the state. That immediately raised hope among Mr. Miller's supporters that he might run for governor.
Although a majority of residents stayed lukewarm about Ms. Perdue, her status as the first woman to govern the state was often noted with respect, Professor Dinan said.
''That's a legacy she will carry with her,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about an announcement by Bev Perdue, governor of North Carolina, that she will not seek re-election misstated the time that elapsed between wins by Democratic presidential candidates in her state. President Obama's victory in 2008 marked the first time in 32 years -- not 36 -- that a Democrat carried the state. (Jimmy Carter had been the last to do so, in 1976.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bev Perdue, with a puppy that was rescued in Ellenboro, N.C., earlier this month, said she would not seek re-election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRITTANY RANDOLPH/THE STAR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); INDICTMENTS (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); ETHICS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); TAX LAW (60%); FELONIES (60%); SALES TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAT MCCRORY (79%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%); BRAD MILLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1215 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Israelis Assess Threats by Iran As Partly Bluff

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER; Isabel Kershner contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israeli intelligence estimates, backed by academic studies, have cast doubt on the widespread assumption that a military strike on Iranian nuclear facilities would set off a catastrophic set of events like a regional conflagration, widespread acts of terrorism and sky-high oil prices.
The estimates, which have been largely adopted by the country's most senior officials, conclude that the threat of Iranian retaliation is partly bluff. They are playing an important role in Israel's calculation of whether ultimately to strike Iran, or to try to persuade the United States to do so, even as Tehran faces tough new economic sanctions from the West.
''A war is no picnic,'' Defense Minister Ehud Barak told Israel Radio in November. But if Israel feels itself forced into action, the retaliation would be bearable, he said. ''There will not be 100,000 dead or 10,000 dead or 1,000 dead. The state of Israel will not be destroyed.''
The Iranian government, which says its nuclear program is for civilian purposes, has threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz -- through which 90 percent of gulf oil passes -- and if attacked, to retaliate with all its military might. 
But Israeli assessments reject the threats as overblown. Mr. Barak and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have embraced those analyses as they focus on how to stop what they view as Iran's determination to obtain nuclear weapons.
No issue in Israel is more fraught than the debate over the wisdom and feasibility of a strike on Iran. Some argue that even a successful military strike would do no more than delay any Iranian nuclear weapons program, and perhaps increase Iran's determination to acquire the capability. Security officials are increasingly kept from journalists or barred from discussing Iran. Much of the public talk is as much message delivery as actual policy.
With the region in turmoil and the Europeans having agreed to harsh sanctions against Iran, strategic assessments can quickly lose their currency. ''They're like cartons of milk -- check the sell-by date,'' one senior official said.
But conversations with eight current and recent top Israeli security officials suggested several things: since Israel has been demanding the new sanctions, including an oil embargo and seizure of Iran's Central Bank assets, it will give the sanctions some months to work; the sanctions are viewed here as probably insufficient; a military attack remains a very real option; and postattack situations are considered less perilous than one in which Iran has nuclear weapons.
''Take every scenario of confrontation and attack by Iran and its proxies and then ask yourself, 'How would it look if they had a nuclear weapon?' '' a senior official said. ''In nearly every scenario, the situation looks worse.''
The core analysis is based on an examination of Iran's interests and abilities, along with recent threats and conflicts. Before the United States-led war against Iraq in 1991, Saddam Hussein vowed that if attacked he would ''burn half of Israel.'' He fired about 40 Scud missiles at Israel, which did limited damage. Similar fears of retaliation were voiced before the Iraq war in 2003 and in 2006, during Israel's war against Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. In the latter, about 4,000 rockets were fired at Israel by Hezbollah, most of them causing limited harm.
''If you put all those retaliations together and add in the terrorism of recent years, we are probably facing some multiple of that,'' a retired official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity, citing an internal study. ''I'm not saying Iran will not react. But it will be nothing like London during World War II.''
A paper soon to be published by the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University, written by Amos Yadlin, former chief of military intelligence, and Yoel Guzansky, who headed the Iran desk at Israel's National Security Council until 2009, argues that the Iranian threat to close the Strait of Hormuz is largely a bluff.
The paper contends that, despite the risks of Iranian provocation, Iran would not be able to close the waterway for any length of time and that it would not be in Iran's own interest to do so.
''If others are closing the taps on you, why close your own?'' Mr. Guzansky said. Sealing the strait could also lead to all-out confrontation with the United States, something the authors say they believe Iran wants to avoid.
A separate paper just published by the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies says that the fear of missile warfare against Israel is exaggerated since the missiles would be able to inflict only limited physical damage.
Most Israeli analysts, like most officials and analysts abroad, reject these arguments. They say that Iran has been preparing for an attack for some years and will react robustly, as will its allies, Hezbollah and Hamas. Moreover, they say, an attack will at best delay the Iranian program by a couple of years and lead Tehran to redouble its efforts to build such a weapon.
But Mr. Barak and Mr. Netanyahu believe that those concerns will pale if Iran does get a nuclear weapon. This was a point made in a public forum in Jerusalem this week by Maj. Gen. Amir Eshel, chief of the army's planning division. Speaking of the former leaders of Libya and Iraq, he said, ''Who would have dared deal with Qaddafi or Saddam Hussein if they had a nuclear capability? No way.''
General Eshel added that when a senior Indian officer was visiting recently, he was asked why the Indians had done so little in response to the 2008 attacks in Mumbai. ''When the other side has a nuclear capability and is prepared to use it, you think twice,'' the officer replied, referring to Pakistan.
Mr. Netanyahu has made no secret of his belief that the current Iranian leadership, which has called for Israel's destruction and which finances and arms militant groups on Israel's borders, is the contemporary equivalent of the Nazis who tried to eliminate the Jews.
Both Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Barak argue that sanctions on Iran's banking and energy sectors, like the ones getting under way, are vital tools for pressuring the Iranian government internally and keeping it under world opprobrium. But they also suspect that such sanctions will not slow the country's nuclear program and therefore consider a military option to be vital.
''With all the sanctions, which are unprecedented,'' Mr. Barak said on the radio this week, ''I don't think we are very close to a situation in which the Iranian leaders will look each other in the eye and say: 'There is no choice. We have to stop the nuclear program.' ''
Mr. Netanyahu has told visitors that he believes the Tehran government to be deeply unpopular, indeed despised, and that a careful attack on its nuclear facilities might even be welcomed by Iranian citizens. They might see it, he has said, as the equivalent of removing the crown jewels from a hated monarch.
Most analysts here and abroad take a different view. They argue that while the Iranian government remains unpopular, the nuclear program has wide support in Iran, and one way to unite the people behind their rulers would be through an Israeli strike.
A former senior official who had top security clearance said he was worried that Mr. Barak and Mr. Netanyahu wanted to attack Iran -- a step requiring agreement from other top ministers -- and that such a step would be catastrophic both militarily and diplomatically.
''The Iranians have 400 missiles they can shoot at Israel,'' he said. ''And imagine Israel's isolation after it attacked. For what? A delay of a year and a half? We are successfully delaying them with other methods.'' That was a reference to the sabotage of the Iranian program through the sale of faulty parts and the introduction of computer worms and malfunctions as well as the killing of nuclear scientists.
The official said that the defense establishment was not enthusiastic about an attack. It hoped that sanctions and diplomacy would work and that if military action were needed it would come from the United States.
But this approach poses a difficulty. America's weapons and equipment are far more powerful than Israel's. So as Iran enriches uranium underground, Washington can wait longer to decide to attack and still be effective. Israel worries that in the coming year Iran will enter what officials call a zone of immunity, meaning its facilities will move beyond reach.
On Tuesday, Mr. Netanyahu spoke on International Holocaust Remembrance Day and reminded his listeners why he might feel the need for Israel to launch an attack. He said: ''I want to mention the main lesson of the Holocaust when it comes to our fate. We can only rely on ourselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he thinks Iranian citizens will welcome an attack. (POOL PHOTO BY ABIR SULTAN) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1216 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats Welcome Obama's Confrontational Tone Toward G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Md. -- The on-again-off-again relationship between President Obama and House Democrats appears to be on again with the president's turn toward a more populist, confrontational tone toward the Republican Party.
Meeting here for their annual retreat, House Democrats appeared to be buoyed by Mr. Obama's State of the Union address Tuesday, his new emphasis on income inequality and ''fairness'' for the middle class and his public castigation of Congressional Republicans for failing to cooperate on his agenda. 
Congressional Democrats had expressed frustration -- even anger -- in the past with the Obama White House, sometimes because they saw Mr. Obama as too quick to compromise with Republicans, sometimes because they feared his broadsides against Congress would indiscriminately harm incumbents from both parties in the coming election.
But as they try to put control of the House in play, Democratic leaders are now encouraging confrontation.
''Not only is it O.K. for the president to run against Congress, I encourage him,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, who is itching to get back the speakership after two years in the minority.
Democrats need to net a 25-seat gain in November to win back control, and national trends may be putting the wind at their backs. Anger at Congress continues to rise. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released Thursday found that 56 percent of registered voters would vote out every member of Congress, including their own, if they had that option. Thirty-one percent of those polled said Republicans had brought the wrong kind of change to Congress, against 12 percent who said they had brought the right kind.
David Wasserman, a House political analyst for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, cautioned that the math still made Democratic control more difficult than it might initially seem. The party is likely to lose 10 to 15 incumbents to adverse redistricting and an additional three to five seats where the Democratic incumbent is retiring. That means they will most likely have to win 35 to 45 newly configured or Republican-held seats, according to Mr. Wasserman's new analysis. For now, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has only an initial 36 on its target list.
Republican campaign operatives concede that the national atmosphere is negative for them, but say the race-by-race battleground indicates their party's majority is not at risk. Four Democrats in solidly Republican districts have announced their retirements, the latest being Representative Brad Miller of North Carolina on Thursday. And Republican-drawn redistricting maps in Ohio and Pennsylvania have shored up a number of Republican House seats in those traditional battleground states.
''While their chest-thumping may be entertaining, they have an uphill climb that gets steeper and steeper every day,'' Paul Lindsay, spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, said of Democrats.
But Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster working on a number of House races, said the storm clouds forming over the House Republicans could wash away House seats not on anyone's radar screen.
''They have become the symbol of what's wrong in Washington,'' Mr. Mellman said. ''The playing field is wider and deeper than they think.''
In some ways, Mr. Obama's message remains at cross-purposes with the House Democratic minority. The president has to convince voters that the economy and the country writ large are improving on his watch, while House Democrats are portraying Washington as broken and the middle class as struggling against powers beyond their control.
Democratic leaders here tried to finesse that divide. Representative Xavier Becerra of California, the Democratic caucus vice chairman, proclaimed, ''America is coming back,'' as Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, lamented that too many people were still unemployed or underwater on their mortgages.
But House Democrats sometimes slip off message. Representative Henry A. Waxman of California said the Democratic message was getting through ''to people that are frightened by an economy that is pushing them down,'' who want ''to get somebody to care about them.''
That tone does not necessarily work for the party that controls the White House and the Senate, Republican campaign aides say.
Mr. Waxman said House Democrats understood they could not go it alone if they hoped to chip away at the Republicans' majority or win back the House.
''We're both going to rise or fall together,'' he said. ''We depend on the president doing well, and he relies on us to get his message across.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Xavier Becerra of California, shown last fall, is among the Democrats expressing optimism about November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TRENDS (70%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BRAD MILLER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); XAVIER BECERRA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1217 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: As Tensions Rise, Egypt Bars Exit Of Six Americans

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Cairo.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Building tensions between the United States and Egypt flashed into the open Thursday when Cairo confirmed that it had barred at least a half-dozen Americans from leaving the country and the Obama administration threatened explicitly to withhold its annual aid to the Egyptian military.
The travel ban came to light on Thursday after the International Republican Institute, an American-backed democracy-building group, disclosed that the Egyptian authorities had stopped its Egypt director, Sam LaHood, at the Cairo airport on Saturday before he could board a flight to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates.
Mr. LaHood is the son of Ray LaHood, the secretary of transportation and a former Republican congressman from Illinois. He is one of six Americans working for the Republican Institute or its sister organization, the National Democratic Institute, whom Egypt has blocked from leaving as part of a politically charged criminal investigation into their activities.
Just a day before Mr. LaHood was detained temporarily, President Obama had warned Egypt's leader, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, that this year's American military aid hinged on satisfying new Congressional legislation requiring that Egypt's military government take tangible steps toward democracy, said three people briefed on the conversation. 
Mr. Obama referred specifically to the criminal inquiry into several democracy-building groups with foreign financing, including the Republican Institute, the people who were briefed said, and he made clear that Egypt had not fulfilled the Congressional requirements, but Field Marshal Tantawi did not seem to believe him.
Then, after the travel ban on the Americans became public on Thursday, the administration made the warning public as well. ''It is the prerogative of Congress to say that our future military aid is going to be conditioned on a democratic transition,'' Michael H. Posner, an assistant secretary of state responsible for human rights issues, said at a previously scheduled press conference in Cairo on Thursday.
Raids last month on nongovernmental organizations, along with respect for basic rights, he said, are ''very much a part of that package.'' He said repeatedly that the military aid was now at stake and that the treatment of the American-backed groups had set off a Congressional outcry. ''Obviously any action that creates tension with our government makes the whole package more difficult.''
State Department officials said that it was the first time in three decades that American military aid to Egypt was at risk. That aid, $1.3 billion a year, has always been sacrosanct as the price the United States pays to preserve Egypt's 1979 peace treaty with Israel. Though members of Congress have talked this year of imposing conditions on American aid to Egypt, the Obama administration had previously opposed the idea.
The White House negotiated intensely to allow the president the option of waiving the conditions, if necessary, in the name of national security. Now Hillary Rodham Clinton, the secretary of state, is required to certify that Egypt is making democratic progress -- carrying out ''policies to protect freedom of expression, association and religion, and due process of law'' -- before releasing the aid this fiscal year.
Representative Frank R. Wolf, a Republican from Virginia who serves on the House Appropriations Committee, said the Egyptian government continued to flout American efforts and to undermine democratic rights. ''This is out of control,'' Mr. Wolf said on Thursday. ''If the administration follows the law, there's no way they can continue the aid.''
The issue has already become subject of ''an active debate'' within the administration, one senior State Department official said. ''I hesitate to say that we have clear assurances of what's going to happen,'' the official said. ''I think they understand the importance we attach to this issue and the value actually for Egypt on moving ahead on these questions.''
A tug of war between Washington and Cairo over American aid for Egyptian human rights and democracy-building groups goes back to the era of former President Hosni Mubarak. To maintain control over organizations that might pose potential challenges to his government, Mr. Mubarak required nonprofit groups to obtain licenses, which were almost never issued.
Instead, the generals have echoed the Mubarak government's refrain that any unrest was the work of ''foreign hands.'' Often, the military-led government has pointed specifically at Washington, suggesting that the United States was financing Egyptian groups behind the frequent turmoil in the streets.
Last spring, the military-led government initiated a formal criminal investigation into foreign financing of nonprofit groups. Then, in December, investigators accompanied by squads of heavily armed riot police officers raided as many as seven rights groups, including four backed by American government funds. The raids were heavily criticized by American officials, lawmakers and advocacy groups.
Sam LaHood said in an interview that his organization had cooperated with the inquiry, which is being conducted by judges at a court in Cairo. At the request of investigators, he had already signed a statement on a copy of his passport pledging to be available for his next interrogation. He said that 17 members of the group's staff had been interrogated and three called back for a second session.
''It is not like we were ducking them,'' he said.
In Cairo, officials of the Justice Ministry and the public prosecutor's office could not be reached for comment. Amr Roshdy, a spokesman for the Egyptian Foreign Ministry, said the travel restrictions were ''a purely judicial process,'' imposed at the request of the attorney general. Told that the furor over the handling of the investigations could affect American aid to Egypt, he paused and then said, ''Really?''
Since the fiscal year began in October, the United States has not provided any money, though portions of last year's budget are still in the pipeline. The administration has budgeted an additional $250 million in economic assistance, but that is not subject to the certification. All aid, however, is subject to a separate requirement that Egypt abide by the peace treaty with Israel. Officials have said that the current military funds will dry up by March.
The administration has welcomed many recent steps in Egypt, including the seating of a new Parliament this week after elections that were broadly viewed as free and fair, and the partial lifting of a longstanding emergency law. But the raids against the nonprofit groups have become politically explosive.
In addition to Mr. LaHood, four other employees from the Republican Institute, including two Americans, had been barred from travel. Officials of the National Democratic Institute said that six of its employees had been banned, including three Americans.
Lorne W. Craner, of the Republican Institute, noted that the Egyptian government had promised senior American officials that they would close the investigation and return documents, computers and cash that were seized.
''Here we are all these weeks later and all these assurances later, and things are getting worse,'' Mr. Craner said in Washington.
Mr. LaHood said that he wondered if he might be brought up on trial. ''It is ludicrous, but the whole thing is ludicrous,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton is required to certify that Egypt is taking steps toward democracy before aid can be released. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); PEACE PROCESS (62%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (57%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAY LAHOOD (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1218 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Postmodern Business Cycles

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Slow recoveries are the new normal. 

 BODY:
Noah Smith finds John Taylor claiming that the V-shaped recovery from the 1981-2 recession proves that Reagan roolz. Kind of sad, really: I find it hard not to believe that Taylor actually knows better.
But anyway, this gives me an occasion to talk about why the sluggish recovery was predictable -- and predicted. This is not an after-the-fact rationalization, I was explaining very early on that this wasn't going to be like the 1981-2 recession.
As I said then, there's a definite change in the character of recessions after the mid-1980s. Before then, recessions were basically brought on by the Fed, which raised interest rates sharply to curb inflation, causing a slump in housing. When the Fed decided that we had suffered enough, it let rates fall again, and there was a surge from pent-up housing demand. Morning in America!
Since then, however, inflation has been well under control, and booms have died of old age -- or more precisely, they have died because of overbuilding and an excessive level of debt. The Fed is then in the position of trying to goose housing (which is the principal channel for monetary policy) even though housing may already be overbuilt (which was the point I was making, sarcastically, when I said long ago that the Fed has to create a housing bubble), and it is cutting rates from an initial level which isn't that high. So the odds of running up against the zero lower bound are high, and recovery can be a long time in coming.
You can see what I'm talking about here:
The early-80s slump was brought on by a huge rise in the Fed funds rate, which left lots of room for cuts, and was driven by a deep slump in housing, which meant that there was lots of pent-up demand when rates fell again. The 2007-? slump was brought on by the bursting of a housing and debt bubble, and left the Fed largely pushing on a string.
And what about Reagan? Reagan who? This had nothing to do with tax cuts. Did I mention that Reagan actually raised taxes in 1982?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1219 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Should the Dropout Age Be Raised?

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: Student Opinion | Do you think that students across the country should be required to attend school until they turn 18? 

 BODY:
In "Obama Wades Into Issue of Raising Dropout Age," Tamar Lewin writes:
While state legislative efforts to raise the dropout age to 18 have spread in recent years, many have had trouble winning passage. Last year, for example, such legislation was considered in Alaska, Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland and Rhode Island - but only Rhode Island actually changed its law.
"Efforts to raise the age usually come up against the argument that requiring students to stay in school when they no longer want to be there is disruptive to other students and not fair to the teacher," said Sunny Deye, a senior policy analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures. "Home-school groups often oppose raising the compulsory attendance age, and especially now, in this budget crunch, there are major concerns about the fiscal impact."
In Kentucky, where the dropout age of 16 was set in 1934, legislation to move the age to 18 has failed twice. Gov. Steven L. Beshear's State of the State message this month made another push.
The dropout age, historically set at 16 in most of the nation, has been edging up. Currently, 21 states and the District of Columbia have compulsory attendance until 18, and 11 others require attendance until age 17.
Given that Washington provides only about 10 percent of education financing, the federal government's effort to dictate policy in an area that has always been left to the states may raise hackles.
Students: Do you think the Federal government should have a say in this decision? Will raising the dropout age have a positive impact on schools, or will it keep a group of students enrolled who detract from the educational experience? How might doing this affect the economy, which featured prominently in the State of the Union Address? What would you do if you were a governor who wanted to keep the age at 16 and if you were the President trying to increase it to 18? Why?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
The State of 'No Child Left Behind'
        
What's Your Response to Obama's Third State of the Union Address?
        
Would You Consider Deleting Your Facebook Account?
        
Do You Discuss Religion With Friends?
        
150 Questions to Write or Talk About

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (76%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUDGETS (74%); HOME SCHOOLING (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%) education policy; President Obama; State of the Union; Student Opinion

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STEVE BESHEAR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1220 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Another View: Private Equity Creates Value

BYLINE: BRONWYN BAILEY


HIGHLIGHT: The vice president of research at the Private Equity Growth Capital Council contends that the research on private equity is exhaustive and conclusive. 

 BODY:
A recent Deal Professor column by Steven M. Davidoff tries to set aside the political rhetoric and take a sober account of the private equity industry based on "the best available research." The column focused on a number of academic studies that provide empirical support that private equity-backed companies historically show lower default rates and little difference in employment trends relative to their peer companies. Additional studies support these findings, and I agree with these claims. 
The column also summarizes several other studies that demonstrate the value created by private equity's ability to better align the interests of owners and managers - namely, more efficient use of capital and better corporate governance. 
Despite all of this research, Mr. Davidoff was unwilling to draw a final conclusion about the industry, saying that "value creation has yet to be established" by empirical research. 
Thankfully, there are additional studies on private equity by preeminent academics that I believe fit into the "best available research" rubric, the findings of which should allow Mr. Davidoff and others to draw a definitive conclusion about the industry's ability to create value at the companies in which it invests.
Here are the findings of just a few:
Jerry Cao of the Singapore Management University and Josh Lerner of the Harvard Business School found that private equity-backed companies that went public consistently performed as well as or better than other comparable initial public offerings and the stock market as a whole. The accounting firm Ernst & Young found consistently in its recurring studies of the industry that private equity-backed companies in the United States and Europe outperformed their peers in growth of profit, employment and productivity. 
The value created at these companies spills over to their respective industries. Shai Bernstein (Harvard Business School), Josh Lerner (Harvard Business School), Morten Sorensen (Columbia Business School) and Per Stromberg (Stockholm School of Economics)found that industries where private equity funds had invested grew more quickly in terms of productivity and employment than industries that lacked private equity investment. Even the study from Andrew Metrick and Ayako Yasuda cited in Mr. Davidoff's article asserted that buyouts were a "high value add industry." 
Building better companies with investment dollars results in delivering high financial returns to investors, namely pension plans, charitable foundations and educational endowments. Robert S. Harris (University of Virginia), Tim Jenkinson (University of Oxford) and Steven N. Kaplan (University of Chicago) concluded in their study of more than three decades of buyouts in the United States that net of fees, every dollar invested in private equity delivered at least 20 percent more than $1 invested in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, as recently summarized by Professor Kaplan. Based only on calculations of the study's sample of funds, "the outperformance works out to more than $120 billion in additional value" to programs financing retirement plans, charitable causes and educational scholarships. Cambridge Associates, an investment adviser and leading benchmark provider, found in its latest review of 905 private equity funds that these funds provided an 11.55 percent annual return net of fees over the last 10-year period, whereas the S.&P. 500 returned only 2.82 percent. 
Contrary to Mr. Davidoff's assertion, the body of research exploring private equity is quite extensive. It's also quite conclusive in finding that private equity creates value in companies and delivers superior returns to its investors.

        
Carried Interest Tax Break Comes Under Fire Again
        
Private Equity's Top Lobbyist Steps Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); TRENDS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (69%); FOUNDATIONS (61%) Private Equity Growth Capital Council; Private Equity; Another View

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1221 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Top Central Banker Urges No Delay to Basel III

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: Jaime Caruana, general manager of the Bank for International Settlements, says that he was against extending the phase-in period for new global banking regulations. 

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland -- A top central banker on Friday damped the hopes of some in the banking industry that they might get more time to comply with new regulations.
Jaime Caruana, general manager of the Bank for International Settlements, said at a lunch sponsored by Credit Suisse that he was against extending the phase-in period for new global regulations.
"The timeline is very long," he said of new rules formulated by a group of central bankers and national bank regulators, and endorsed by leaders of the Group of 20 countries. 
The new rules, known as Basel III, will take effect gradually until the beginning of 2019. They will require banks to increase the amount of capital they hold in reserve and take other steps to become less vulnerable to financial crises. Banking industry representatives have complained that the rules will force them to reduce lending to business and consumers, and have pleaded for more time.
"You need to build resilience today," Mr. Caruana said during a question-and-answer session. "Otherwise you will have to do it at the worst possible moment." He said that banks that took steps to become less vulnerable after the financial crisis began in 2008 are now in better shape than banks that didn't.
Besides serving as head of the Bank for International Settlements, which serves as a clearinghouse for the world's central banks, Mr. Caruana is prominent in regulatory circles and is a member of the Financial Stability Board, one of the panels that advises the G20 on bank risk.
Mr. Caruana also warned that the extremely low interest rates that prevail in America and Europe could be damaging in the long term. For example, low rates mean that people have a difficult time earning a decent return on retirement savings, he said. 
"We should be concerned about too low interest rates for too long," he said. "It has unintended consequences."

        
European Banks Hunt for Ways to Raise Cash
        
Ahead of New Rules, Europe's Banks Go on a Selling Spree

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (95%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (94%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) Bank of International Settlements; Basel III; Jaime Caruana; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Bank for International Settlements; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Financial Services; World Economic Forum in Davos

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (94%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%) Bank for International Settlements; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (94%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (91%) SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1222 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: How Readers Cut the Pentagon Budget

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Among the more than 12,000 who used an interactive calculator, reducing troop levels in Europe and Asia was the most popular choice, and many saw potential administrative savings. 

 BODY:
More than 12,000 readers completed The New York Times's interactive calculator on the Pentagon budget. The results are not scientific, of course. But among those readers who filled out the calculator, a few patterns emerged:
* Some of the most popular choices for budget cuts were administrative areas, including a reduction in recruiting expenses and a consolidation of retail stores on military bases. The second-most popular option over all was an audit of the Pentagon to reduce costs. Of the eight options that at least 50 percent of readers chose, five of them could plausibly be considered administrative.
* Cutting the purchase of weapons, ships and aircraft was nearly as popular as cutting administrative costs.
* Readers were more divided over cutting the number of troops. Bringing home some troops from Europe and Asia was the single most popular choice, picked by 85 percent of readers who filled out the calculator. But larger cuts to troop levels or the Pentagon civilian work force were less popular.
* The least frequently chosen set of options were those that cut pay or benefits for members of the military. The least popular option over all, selected by only 7 percent of readers, was a reduction in college tuition assistance. Options that reduced retirement benefits also tended to be unpopular. 

        
Deficit Hawks, Tax Chickens
        
Why I Would Raise Taxes
        
Economics Offers Tactics, Not Strategy
        
The True Federal Debt
        
Podcast: Europe, Pensions, Wealth and Phone Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); BUDGETS (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); TELEPHONE RATES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (66%); RETAILERS (56%); PODCASTING (50%) federal budget; military spending; You Fix the Budget; Federal Budget (US); United States Defense and Military Forces; Defense Department

ORGANIZATION: Defense Department

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1223 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: The Quiet Driver of Economic Growth: Exports

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Exports accounted for almost 14 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, the largest share since at least 1929. 

 BODY:
The estimates of the nation's economic performance last year, released Friday, highlight a striking trend: Exports have never been more important.
Foreign buyers purchased more than $2 trillion in goods and services, the first time exports have topped that threshold. And those exports accounted for almost 14 percent of gross domestic product, the largest share since at least 1929.
We usually talk about exports alongside its opposite number, imports, and since the United States buys much more than it sells - our "trade deficit" -- the general impression is that foreign trade is a drag on the economy. But that tends to obscure the importance of exports, which have accounted for about 10 percent of G.D.P. over the last two decades and, since the recession, considerably more.

The growth has come from all areas, but the real strength has come from what might be called the old economy: petroleum, metals, chemicals and farm goods.
(On the short list of goods the United States is selling in smaller quantities than in 2000: tobacco, shoes and apparel, and automobile engines.)
Much of the rise in exports is a consequence of domestic problems. The value of the dollar has declined, so that foreigners save money when they buy American. Businesses, struggling to find customers here, are focusing on foreign sales. And a boom in commodity prices, which has raised the price of life for most Americans, has produced a windfall for those who trade in commodities.
This is a good thing on the whole. The ability of American companies to make money in foreign markets is helping to offset the pain of those domestic problems.
Indeed, the Obama administration has hailed the growth as a key to economic recovery, and in 2010 declared a goal of doubling exports to $3.1 trillion by 2015.
That goal may prove hard to reach, as Annie Lowrey explained in a recent article. But the trend itself is real enough, and likely to continue.

        
Meanwhile, in the Rest of the World
        
Will Bernanke Take Aim at G.D.P.?
        
Back to Where We Began. Finally.
        
When Confidence Is Lower Than the Economy Itself
        
What Does 'Economic Growth' Mean for Americans?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); METALS MARKETS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%) exports; Gross Domestic Product; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; United States Economy

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1224 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Reaping a Bonus From Cap-and-Trade

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: Rather than imposing higher costs on consumers and businesses, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative lowered their bills. 

 BODY:
Criticism of cap-and-trade programs often centers on the costs they impose on electric power companies and their consumers. But as I report in Friday's Times, New York and other Northeastern and mid-Atlantic states that are trying out such a system have found that those costs can be offset by energy efficiency measures paid for by the cap-and-trade program itself.
A study by the Boston consulting firm Analysis Group that was commissioned by four nonprofit foundations last year noted that states participating in the program had received $912 million over three years by charging electricity providers for their carbon dioxide emissions. Many of the states invested most of those funds in programs to retrofit homes and buildings to make them more energy-efficient, lowering consumption of electricity.
So while the program led to a slight rise in electricity rates - less than 1 percent -- consumers in those states ended up seeing lower bills over all as their demand declined.
"All told," the study said," electricity consumers over all - households, businesses, government users and others - enjoy a net gain of nearly $1.1 billion as their overall electric bills drop over time. This reflects average savings of $25 for residential consumers, $181 for commercial consumers and $2,493 for industrial consumers over the study period."
The nine states in the program, known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI (pronounced "reggie"), are now in the process of reviewing the first three years of the program with the goal of strengthening it. Ten states were involved before New Jersey pulled out last year.
 "The overall legacy is going to be lower energy costs, lower emissions and more competitiveness and economic development," said Collin O'Mara, chairman of RGGI's board of directors and secretary of the natural resources and environmental control department for Delaware, one of the participating states. 
Kenneth Kimmell, commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection in Massachusetts, which invested 94 percent of the program's proceeds in energy efficiency measures, said, "We certainly feel like RGGI has been a tremendous success."

        
Carbon Trading Initiative a Success, Study Says
        
Group Sues to End N.Y.'s Role in Regional Cap-and-Trade
        
Carbon Auction Yields $16.9 Million for New York
        
Climate Bill Could Override Regional Efforts
        
New Jersey Will Pull Out of RGGI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); AUCTIONS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (64%) cap and trade; electricity prices; Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative; rggi; Electric Light and Power; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Delaware; Massachusetts; Business; Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Living; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Delaware; Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1225 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 4417 words

HEADLINE: Giants, Peyton Manning, Tom Coughlin: Answers to Readers' Questions

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Judy Battista, who covers the N.F.L. for The Times, answers questions from readers. 

 BODY:
Judy Battista, who covers the N.F.L. for The Times, answers questions from readers.
Q.
Kyle Williams, the 49ers punt returner, has a history of concussions. What do you make of the Giants targeting him because of his concussion history?
Jacquian Williams who forced a fumble: "The thing is, we knew he had four concussions, so that was our biggest thing, was to take him outta the game."
Devin Thomas: "He's had a lot of concussions. ... We were just like, `We gotta put a hit on that guy.'" He also said the Giants "did a great job hitting him early, and he looked kind of dazed when he got up. I feel like that made a difference and he coughed it up."
As a fan, I'd hate to see this possible be the determining factor in deciding a close game. Ideally, the advantage does not go to the team most successful in exploiting head injuries.
Is this common practice? Is that why Giants' beat writers don't seem to have picked the story up? Can this be eliminated from football or are we kind of stuck with it?--Eddy, New York
A.
First, the Giants' beat writers all wrote stories the next day in which the Giants denied that they had targeted Williams to be knocked out of the game. They definitely admitted that they wanted to make him feel uncomfortable back there, because he is Ted Ginn's backup and obviously this was a pressure-packed game. Do I think the Giants said, "Hey, let's go hit this guy in the head and try to give him another concussion?" Nope.
But players certainly know injury histories of opponents. They know if a guy's ankle is bad or if he's wearing a knee brace. They know if a quarterback has bruised ribs. To think that they are not hoping to make a player feel uncomfortable because of an injury is naive. I think the Giants knew Williams might be skittish because of his injury history and because of his inexperience in the punt-returner role - and they knew that if they hit him (not necessarily in the head), it might make him more nervous. I don't think that can be eliminated from football. What would you say to players? Ignore the fact that Michael Vick has bruised ribs and don't try to inflict any punishment on him? It's a physical game. The object is to physically dominate the other guy. Exploiting any advantage is part of it. 
Q.
Is Spagnuolo for Greg Williams as defensive coordinator a good move by the Saints? I'm not familiar with Spagnuolo as a defensive coordinator; what does he bring to the table that the Saints need?--Andrew S., Northwest Florida
A.
Yes! As soon as the Rams fired Spagnuolo as head coach, teams needing a defensive coordinator started calling. Spagnuolo was the defensive coordinator when the Giants won the Super Bowl in 2008 and he learned from the late Philadelphia coordinator Jim Johnson. With the Giants, Spagnuolo ran a defense predicated on an aggressive pass rush. He has been careful since getting to New Orleans to say that he hasn't fully evaluated the roster and that he believes in flexibility, to take advantage of existing strengths. We'll see. But Spagnuolo is deeply respected and liked by players and coaches alike.
Q.
It makes me nuts when analysts (and us regular folk) cherry pick key good or bad plays that "should" have altered the final outcome of a game. For example, in the Packers/Giants game, had the refs not muffed those calls, the Giants would have won by a much larger margin.
Obviously events happen in sequence and change what comes next. Maybe the Packers get a real kick in the pants early enough if the first quarter fumble is called and they snap out of their funk and change the whole course of the game: Packers receivers don't drop so many balls and Rodgers plays like he did all year, despite the excellent Giants pressure. Even with that, maybe the Giants respond and kill the Pack even more decisively. Who can know?
Does this Alternate Universe mode of analysis make you nuts too? Maybe a better question is, how much are the intangibles of emotional reaction to any circumstance important to play? Should professional athletes at the peak of performance simply play each play as the downs situation warrants, ignoring the context?--Paul, Green Bay, Wis.
A.
I don't view it as an alternate universe. You can't know if the Giants would have won by a larger margin, for instance, or if something else might have kept the score down. But you can say that those two bad calls almost certainly led to Green Bay points. I don't think there is any question emotional reaction plays a role in performance, and there is no way to quantify it, or hope to end it. All you have to do is look at the Jets' meltdown at the end of the season to know that even the emotional reaction to off-the-field issues can take a toll.
Q.
After the Atlanta game, Tom Coughlin said that Brandon Jacobs had set the tone with a hard hit on an early carry. But at Green Bay and S.F. Jacobs got almost no carries in the first half (none?). Aside from the late touchdown against the Packers, Jacobs has been irrelevant. What gives? Why not exploit a weapon that seemed to be just hitting his stride?--David Brody, Brooklyn
A.
I haven't seen Coughlin address this, but I have to guess that it's because they believe that Jacobs' style of running does not match up well with Green Bay and San Francisco defenses (San Francisco's run defense was superb this season). It's not like Jacobs has been a consistent producer, and Ahmad Bradshaw, now that he is back to health, gives the Giants a faster, change of direction option than Jacobs.
Q.
Peyton Manning is obviously a goner in Indy. Let's assume he is healthy enough to play in 2012. Which teams seem like a good fit?
The Jets? Signing Peyton would mean the end of any future for Sanchez in that locker room.
The Redskins? Peyton's creaky neck won't last for six games against the Giants' and Eagles' pass rush or DeMarcus Ware in Dallas.
Arizona? Maybe. Kevin Kolb has all the earmarks of a bust, they have a solid running game and a fantastic receiver in Larry Fitzgerald.
My guess for best-fit is the Dolphins who play tough and would win 9-10 games with Peyton. Sorry Jets' fans! You're going to end up facing Peyton AND Brady for a quarter of your season. At least you'll always have the Bills.
Thoughts?-- O Coelho, New York
A.
First of all, we're assuming a lot that he is going to be healthy enough to play. This isn't the same as being healthy enough to throw a football in his backyard. This is healthy enough to be an ultra-elite N.F.L. quarterback. Can he still throw the ball 50 yards on a line? Nobody knows that yet. The problem is when we might know. There is virtually no precedent for Manning's neck situation, and teams will have to set their rosters at some point.
Of course, this is Manning we're talking about - teams will make a run at him. Keep in mind that if he's a free agent, he will be in control of where he goes. He will want a place with good defense and good receivers and NO dysfunction, which probably eliminates the Redskins, the Jets and maybe even the Dolphins, because does Peyton really want to go to a place where he's going to have to get past Tom Brady twice every year just to win the division? Arizona has receivers and a running game, and they are in a winnable division (although the Niners will have something to say about that). Another option might be Seattle - also in the N.F.C. West. But again, we are a long, long way from having any real answers.
Q.
What did the talent evaluators miss when scouting Victor Cruz? Obviously he lacks the size and speed on paper of your typical first-round wide receiver pick, but he does something week after week that allows him to catch a lot of balls and make big plays.
And if I can throw in one more about a Giants wide receiver, any chance we will ever see Ramses Barden make an impact in the regular season, or is the team prepared to cut ties?--Dan, New Jersey
A.
I'd guess that Victor Cruz got overlooked in part because of the level of competition he faced in college.
Q.
On the topic of concussions: Has anyone to your knowledge compared the rate of concussions in football where they wear helmets to rugby where they don't? I suspect helmets in football give players a false sense of security so they end up using their heads more as a weapon. Any thoughts?--SDE, Bow, N.H.
A.
This is not an uncommon line of thinking on the subject. And I understand that line of thinking. But I don't see getting rid of helmets - not when football players are as big and moving as fast as they do. I don't want to think about the injuries that might occur when a receiver going over the middle for a catch collides with a defender coming at great speed to break up the catch - if neither is wearing a helmet. I don't know if there are been studies comparing it to rugby. But there are also factors in the way the two sports are played that almost certainly impact number of concussions, too. The scariest hits in the N.F.L. seem to come when receivers and defenders collide at great speed while going for the ball, and while neither is looking to see what is about to hit them. Those kinds of plays simply don't happen in other sports.
Q.
It is so irritating that these comparisons keep coming up. I'll let Judy answer of course, but from my perspective the chief reason we don't see concussions in rugby and the other sibling sports is because American football is the only variant that employs the forward pass.
It is very true that there are a number of collisions that don't arise out of the passing game, but anecdotally speaking, the vast number of injuries arising from collisions (player to player, player to turf) seems to stem from chasing after an aerial ball, or trying to bring down the receiver after the catch. Put two or more large bodies in motion at a high rate of speed, often from competing directions and have them focus on the ball rather than each other, and that's a sure recipe for concussive collisions.
The issue seems more the rules of each respective sport being different, more so than the equipment/lack thereof being worn. Of course poor tackling/improper technique also plays a part.--The Artist FKA Bakes, Philadelphia
ANSWER: Agreed. See above.
Q.
Is the neck injury that kept Peyton Manning out of commission this past season, in any way similar to the neck injury that curtailed Bert Jones's N.F.L. career prematurely or are they two completely separate and distinct maladies? Could you contact orthoneurologists (if that's even a word) and explicate the two star quarterbacks' respective injuries? I recall Bert Jones being quoted in a wire report that he had been told by doctors "not that he shouldn't, but that he couldn't" continue to play pro football, a few games after his "Madam Ram Gets Her Man" Sports Illustrated cover story back when ...--Norman Browning, Farmington, N.Y.
A.
I don't know, but my understanding is that Manning's injury and the resulting operations, in the context of pro football, are unprecedented for a quarterback, which is why it is so difficult to pinpoint when - or if - he might return. As we said before, the question for Manning might not even be whether he is medically cleared to play again. The question might be at what level he will play, if he does return. He may be well enough to be a weekend warrior on the playground, but do his neck, shoulder, arm etc. all go back to being what they were when he was at an elite level? Nobody knows that.
Q.
Is Osi Umenyiora coming back next year, or have his and the Giants' feelings hardened to the point that he won't stay and the Giants don't want him?--Sledge, Worcester
A.
Good question and, understandably, not one the Giants are going to address right now. I'm sure they would be happy to have him back - at a price they think is reasonable for an older player who has had injury issues. Umenyiora, of course, is happy to be with the Giants now, and he has been clear about his love and loyalty for his teammates. But contract negotiations are a different thing, and he clearly felt disrespected before the season.
Q.
The Giants are basically the same team as last year with the addition of Victor Cruz, Steve Weatherford and a few rookies. How does it feel trying to prognosticate a team's year? There doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason as to how teams play from year to year anymore, outside of the Pats or Steelers. Do teams need a core of 15 to 20 solid players and with a little bit of good coaching and pixie dust they'll be successful? Or is it just that the league is so evenly matched?--SWarshawer, New York City
A.
It's impossible to predict, other than a few obvious things - if Peyton Manning and Tom Brady and Drew Brees and Aaron Rodgers are all healthy, their teams will probably win a bunch of games. Otherwise, you might as well throw a dart at the N.F.L., which is why I can't imagine why anybody bets on football. Other than having a premier quarterback, there seems to be an argument to be made that stability is a critical factor - no free agent spending sprees, no coaching staff overhauls, and solid scouting and drafting and coaching. Those seem to be the ingredients to consistent competitiveness. I don't remember who I picked for the Super Bowl, but I know I picked the Eagles to win the division - so I already owe the Giants an apology.
Q.
Not to bring up another bad call, but do you think Vernon Davis's right foot was actually in bounds on that first touchdown? It seemed to me that half of his foot was on or over the line.--Vincent, New York City
A.
No, I thought his heel never touched out of bounds, so I think he was in. But that goes to show you how hard it is to make accurate calls - and in real time, too. You and I have the benefit of very slow motion replay before we decide. The officials are deciding it while they're running down the sideline, too.
Q.
Back in the day, when I had the time and money, I used to wager on N.F.L. games.
There was only one couch, Don Shula, who, when I bet, his value I could quantify. I added a point for the Don. His game planning skills gave me the courage to take the Fins against the '85 Bears.
How do you, Judy, quantify the value of a head coach? Consider that, after all, most N.F.L. players, have been football stars since Pop Warner. Really, at the very least, they're all excellent football players.
So, just how much does coaching matter? I think: More than in any other sport.
And you? [ also...please relate to the obvious: Darth vs. Tom]--JP, Jersey City, N.J.
A.
This is all you need to know about the role of coaching: The Patriots are going to the Super Bowl in a season in which Julian Edelman - a middling receiver - was deployed as a cornerback when the secondary was depleted. I'm not sure how many other coaches would have thought of that, but Bill Belichick did. He also has overhauled his offensive style multiple times in the Tom Brady years - obviously Brady deserves a ton of credit for being spectacular enough to make all those incarnations work so well - but this is not a coach who can only do one thing.
Q.
If you exclude Tom Brady's rookie year where he did not play hardly at all and the season he missed with his knee injury, he has played 10 N.F.L. seasons and led his team to the Super Bowl now five times. Does any other QB come close to this .500 batting average? To me, this is really incredible.--psj567, Boston
A.
Interesting and, yes, incredible. Joe Montana went to the playoffs nine times with the Niners. Went to the Super Bowl four times and won them all. Terry Bradshaw went to the playoffs nine times with the Steelers. Went to the Super Bowl four times and won them all. What I find even more amazing about Brady is that he's not doing it with the same cast of players. There is no Jerry Rice or Lynn Swann/John Stallworth situation with him. There hasn't been that consistency for all of his years. That's taking nothing away from the 2007 season with Randy Moss or the years he's had with Wes Welker. But the cast keeps changing and Brady keeps adapting.
Q.
In the Baltimore-New England Game, when Brady does the QB keeper on fourth down, all he needed to do was break the plane of the goal line for the touchdown. However, when Flacco threw to Evans for the potential go ahead score in the final minute, it looked like Evans had the ball, got both feet down, and then the ball was knocked out by Moore. There was no video review to see if he had possession of the ball. Apparently he had to keep possession even after both feet were down, but why should that matter?--Seatant, New York City
A.
The lack of a video replay was a big question after that play - but Mike Pereira, the former head of officials, was at the San Francisco game and watched the replay and said it was a clear drop and no need for replay. He didn't make a move with the ball, he simply dropped it. In the case of a catch, it's more than just breaking the plane - you have to actually hold on to the ball (think of that wacky Calvin Johnson play last year when he caught the ball and it looked for all the world like a touchdown catch and then the officials said he hadn't held on). There's a fine line. And to the officials' eyes that was a drop by Lee Evans.
Q.
Judy, what do you know about how the Giants and Patriots evaluate players for the draft or sign free agents? Both teams seem to get a lot of mileage out of little-known players. Belichick is often portrayed as a evil genius who always shows up to the draft with a lot of high picks, and signs veterans for what appears to be peanuts. Jerry Reese doesn't get as much ink on his evaluation prowess, but I'm sure he's no slouch. I'm curious because all teams in the N.F.L. presumably pay the same amount for their entire roster, and certain teams seem to under-achieve and other teams always make the playoffs. What insights can you give us? --D Y Loh, New York
A.
Well, first, all teams don't pay the same - some teams spend cash over cap (this is complex, but trust me there are cap rules that allow you to spend more). Some teams don't spend anywhere near the cap (the Jets were one of those this year). But that's an answer for another day, after we all go back to school and take some economics classes.
Anyway, both teams believe in building through the draft and developing their own players, rather than going on the occasionally big-ticket free agent spending spree. They place a lot of value in college scouting and will throw in the occasional free-agent signing that is not that big a deal. Did anyone even pay attention when David Baas signed with the Giants last year? Probably not, because we were all watching the Eagles sign every big-name player under the sun. The Patriots signed Chad Ochocinco and Albert Haynesworth - that seemed to be a radical departure for them - except they were team-friendly deals, so when Haynesworth turned out to still be Albert Haynesworth, Belichick had no trouble sending him off.
It's not an accident that both teams have had members of the player personnel staffs interview for general manager jobs elsewhere. These are teams known for being strong evaluators, who are not afraid to weather the criticism for not making enough big moves. They think they know the right way to build a team, and their results certainly back it up.
Q.
Why are some quarterbacks far more prone to throwing interceptions than others? Is it primarily an inability to effectively read defenses? Or is it caused more by trying to force the issue rather than play it safe?--Hagbard Celine
A.
There are probably a million answers. Some struggle to read defenses. Some take too many risks (see: Favre, Brett). Some are the victims of bad luck - tipped passes and such. Some don't have enough familiarity with their receivers. Some just don't have very good receivers.
Q.
With the Giants in the Super Bowl, will the Jets be more aggressive in pursuing free agents?--Bruce Edwards, Rutland, Vermont
A.
This is an interesting question and not as crazy as it sounds. You'd like to think they wouldn't be spurred to action because the crosstown team is in the Super Bowl. But the Jets have been known to make splashy moves and are known to care quite a bit about their competition for the back page with the Giants. The Brett Favre acquisition was as much about star power as it was about him helping the team in a football way. So this ought to be interesting to watch.
Q.
What do you think of Jerry Reese's claim during spring training that the Giants would be in playoffs? Has he not done a great job as G.M.?
Do you think someone should have asked Woody Johnson last week whether he should have made an extra effort to hire Jim Harbaugh instead of Rex Ryan?--achoudary, New Jersey
A.
I think we all owe Jerry Reese an apology, because when he said that they would make the playoffs and make a run - at a time when the roster was decimated by injuries and the Giants had just lost Steve Smith and Kevin Boss - more than a few of us thought Jerry was sounding defensive. He has done a great job as G.M. What else do you want - wins a Super Bowl in his first year as the G.M., is in another one now. Picked Jason Pierre-Paul, who is some kind of pass-rushing freak.
As for Harbaugh versus Rex, I have never heard it suggested that he should have done that. Harbaugh has had just one year in the league, he made it to the N.F.C. Championship. Let's see how it plays out. Rex has had three seasons and went to the A.F.C. Championship twice, including his first year. In my mind, Rex is still ahead.
Q.
You hear about some teams that run the famous West Coast Offense. Then you have teams like the Giants and Patriots which run -- what, the "East Coast Offense"? Is there a name and system associated with what these teams do?--Stan Kaplan, Bethesda, Md.
A.
Ha! Good question. I think every offense in the N.F.L. currently uses some elements of the West Coast offenses. Coaches beg, borrow and steal good ideas and then make them their own. What Bill Walsh used with the Niners is not the same thing that you see in Seattle or Cleveland or wherever. The Patriots and Giants take shots downfield, too, which is not what is normally thought of as typical for the West Coast offense.
Q.
If you had Jim Irsay's ear - yes, I know we tried this with G.M. and Jim didn't check with us - who would you tout for the Colts coach?--LM, Elgin, S.C.
I was actually talking to Jim Irsay on the SAME DAY he hired Chuck Pagano. Curiously, he did not ask me what I thought before he made the hire. However, I like it, which I'm sure Jim will be relieved to hear.
Pagano is so loved by the defensive players in Baltimore that Terrell Suggs joked that he would tell other teams how lousy he was, just so they wouldn't hire him. He's a sharp defensive guy, but also brings some boldness and brashness to the job, which is obviously a changeup from the Dungy/Caldwell style. Irsay is obviously intent on changing things at his franchise, and he has accomplished that. Now I'll be interested to see who Pagano hires as an offensive coordinator, because that guy gets to work with Andrew Luck (and maybe Peyton, who knows).
Q.
With two full weeks to fulminate, what do you think the chances are that any sportswriter in the United States will figure out any angle for this game other than either (1 the Patriots chance to avenge the loss of their perfect season or (2 the usual Boston vs. New York rivalry story?--Baltimorean in NY, New York
A.
Hey! You're suggesting we're burned-out husks here, with no ideas? We'll come up with something, but isn't the annoying Boston/New York domination of the world fun - people love to hate us, if nothing else. The Patriots revenge thing is also delicious because I'm pretty certain that Brady and Belichick would sacrifice a vital organ to have that game back. But we'll try to come up with something else to write about. I make no promises, though.
Q.
How about Eli going into his brother's stadium with the chance of increasing his head-to-head Super Bowl win lead, and the possibility that Peyton might not play in another one?--zb, New York City
A.
Yeah, we've done that, too.
Q.
What does an offensive coordinator do, exactly? Have heard a ton of criticism of the newly-transitioning Brian Schottenheimer and Bruce Arians from their respective fanbases, but it is never clear what is warranted and what is just venting after a loss or poor offensive performance.--Saltwater, Durham, N.C.
A.
I bet Brian and Bruce would like to answer this question. The coordinators, in most cases, draw up the game plan and call the plays. Not always, though. In Green Bay, for instance, Mike McCarthy calls the plays. In Indianapolis, Peyton Manning did pretty much everything, including having a huge hand in the game planning. As for how much credit or blame they deserve, that's a fair point. Is the New England offense so awesome because of the coordinator or Tom Brady? No disrespect to Bill O'Brien or anyone else who has held that job, but I'm going with Brady because they have run through several coordinators and the offense never skips a beat. Schottenheimer got the boot in large part because Sanchez's development seems to have hit a wall and his play calling also does not seem to line up with what Rex Ryan would prefer - a ground-heavy game. Also, maybe, he was just a scapegoat for failing to get to the playoffs. In Pittsburgh, there was concern even before the playoff loss that the offense had really slowed down, long before Ben Roethlisberger's ankle injury. As Art Rooney II said: It was time for a change.
Q.
In Sunday's N.F.C. Conference Championship game, the 49er punt returner ran the ball back close to midfield twice (45 yards and almost 50 yards).
Is Tom Coughlin making any changes to special teams players or coverage schemes in the Super Bowl game to ensure the Patriots punt returner gets tackled deep in their territory ?--Henry, Tampa
A.
Don't know. This hasn't been asked, and he wouldn't answer anyway. But the punt coverage team also produced the single most important play of the game, so I wouldn't be too hard on them.
Q.
With what seems like relatively similar coaching approaches, generally similar talent levels and similar playoff results, why do the Patriots and Giants perform so different in the regular season over the past five years?--Ben, Boston
A.
I don't know. But their postseason records are strikingly similar in recent years.

        
Have N.F.L. Questions? Judy Battista Has Answers
        
With His Ring, Weatherford Says, It's All About 'Comfort'
        
Video: Football, Just Pure Football
        
Leading Off: And Then There Were Two
        
Early Look at Giants-Patriots Matchup

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRAIN INJURIES (92%); SPORTS INJURIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); CONTUSIONS (77%); ATHLETES (71%) N.F.L.; New England Patriots; New York Giants; Bradshaw, Ahmad; Brady, Tom; Brees, Drew; Coughlin, Tom; Cruz, Victor; Haynesworth, Albert; Johnson, Jim; Manning, Peyton; McCarthy, Mike; O'Brien, Bill; Reese, Jerry; Rodgers, Aaron; Roethlisberger, Ben; Rooney, Art II; Ryan, Rex; Schottenheimer, Brian; Shula, Don; Ware, DeMarcus; Concussions; Football; Rugby (Game); Sports Injuries; Buffalo Bills; Chicago Bears; Green Bay Packers; Indianapolis Colts; Miami Dolphins; National Football League; New Orleans Saints; New York Jets; Philadelphia Eagles; Pittsburgh Steelers; St Louis Rams; Washington Redskins

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (84%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (84%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); ST LOUIS RAMS (84%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (84%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (84%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (84%); BUFFALO BILLS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (84%); CHICAGO BEARS (84%) Buffalo Bills; Chicago Bears; Green Bay Packers; Indianapolis Colts; Miami Dolphins; National Football League; New England Patriots; New Orleans Saints; New York Giants; New York Jets; Philadelphia Eagles; Pittsburgh Steelers; St Louis Rams; Washington Redskins

PERSON: Bradshaw, Ahmad; Brady, Tom; Brees, Drew; Coughlin, Tom; Cruz, Victor; Haynesworth, Albert; Johnson, Jim; Manning, Peyton; McCarthy, Mike; O'Brien, Bill; Reese, Jerry; Rodgers, Aaron; Roethlisberger, Ben; Rooney, Art II; Ryan, Rex; Schottenheimer, Brian; Shula, Don; Ware, DeMarcus

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); INDIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1226 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; travel

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Checking In | Public Chicago

BYLINE: PILAR VILADAS


HIGHLIGHT: Ian Schrager's latest venture, a re-do of a landmark hotel, is surprisingly elegant and refreshingly down-to-earth. 

 BODY:
I've always had mixed feelings about Ian Schrager's hotels, where for me, style trumped service - and certainly comfort - more often than not.
So it was with slight trepidation that I checked into Schrager's latest venture, Public Chicago, which opened last fall. A re-do of the fabled Ambassador East, a landmark 1926 building in the city's Gold Coast neighborhood, Public Chicago, the first of a planned string of hotels, is Schrager's spin on the recessionary trope of doing more with less. He aims to offer guests just what they need, and nothing they don't, thereby making rooms more affordable. (They start at $135 a night.) The result, both in the 285-room hotel's design (by an in-house team led by the architect Anda Andrei, a longtime Schrager associate) and amenities, is surprisingly elegant and refreshingly down-to-earth.
The lobby is a hip, but not too hip, update of its predecessor, with the original neo-Georgian architecture playing off neutral-toned upholstered furniture with a slightly French '40s vibe. iMac computers line up on a long wooden table. At the other end of the lobby, the Library and Coffee Bar, with its generous windows and tufted leather banquette, is grand but relaxed.
But it's the guest rooms that really impress. The original spaces have been spruced up rather than redone, and the decorating, while low-key, is chic and user-friendly. Normally, I can't stand taupes and naturals, which I find only add to a hotel room's anonymity. But here they're used so skillfully that the effect is soothing rather than alienating. Add the crispness of a black steel desk, the coziness of a small-scaled, linen-covered club chair, and electrical outlets that a) you can access without moving an armoire and b) accommodate two chargers at once, and you're in no hurry to leave.
For me, the only disappointment was the Pump Room, the new incarnation of the Ambassador East's legendary restaurant, which attracted everybody who was anybody back when. Now a sleek, neutral space dominated by resin-sphere lighting on an angular steel armature, it's buzzy at night, but during the day it's a bit of a downer. The celebrity photos that once adorned the walls have been relegated to the restaurant's vestibule and the space outside the basement restrooms; they're also used - in a bit of unintended irony? - on the brown-paper shopping bags in which Public Express, the hotel's New Economy room service, is delivered. Call me nostalgic, but the Pump Room could use a bit of that old-school glamour. Still, Public Chicago offers a lot of style for the money, and I'd stay there again.

        
For the Moment | Mark Jolly on Emerging Hotel Trends
        
Now Booking | The Yeatman, Portugal
        
The New New List
        
Style in the Rough
        
Now Booking | The St. Regis Florence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CELEBRITIES (60%) Chicago; hotels; Ian Schrager; Public Chicago; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1227 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Racing Up (and Down) the Performance Index

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: In the latest Environmental Performance Index, Switzerland is at the top, Russia is much closer to the bottom and the United States has failed to gain much ground. 

 BODY:
Watching the rankings of countries by environmental performance over the last six years has been an occasion for admiration, mingled with bursts of skepticism and even disbelief. It is seldom a surprise that Scandinavian countries occupy at least four spots in the top 15, given their lauded environmental sensibilities (excepting, perhaps, Norwegian whalers and Danish fishermen).
But it was always a surprise to someone who lived in the former Soviet Union that Russia, whose Communist forebears oversaw the dewatering of the Aral Sea, the emergence of pervasive air pollution in cities like Dniepopetrovsk and the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, ranked just a few notches below the United States -- or in one case, above -- in the 2006, 2008and 2010 Yale and Columbia's Environmental Performance Index.
So it is a relief to find that such counterintuitive findings are not repeated in the 2012 edition, which was released in tandem with the World Economic Forum's gathering in Davos, Switzerland, this week. Largely because of worsening air quality, Russia has plummeted in the rankings to 106th out of 132. And it came in dead last in a new analysis ranking countries by their environmental trajectory.

Russia "has suffered a severe breakdown in environmental health as well as performance declines related to overfishing and forest loss," the report said. "It shows declines in every category except for slight improvements in sulfur dioxide emissions, though levels are still far below" the goals set for the countries being evaluated.
At the other end of the scale, Switzerland and Latvia benefited from policies that have improved their air quality, benefiting people and ecosystems. (The report's basic measurements are divided into two overall categories: environmental health and ecosystem vitality.)
Comparing countries at very different stages of development and with very different economic realities is obviously problematic, as the creators of the index acknowledge. "Economic development matters," the 2012 report notes. "The environmental health scores, in particular, reveal a significant relationship with G.D.P. per capita, although there is a diversity of performance within every level of economic development."
What is less intuitively understandable are some great leaps forward for some countries. Latvia, a tiny Baltic republic with a population of two million, jumped from No. 21 to No. 2 even though it scored high in only three of the 11 categories on which the overall score is based. (Its strong suit was how its air quality is benefiting its ecosystems.)
Comparisons of rankings in previous years reveal a surprising amount of volatility in the top tier: only seven of those currently in the top 15 slots have consistently been in that elite company: Iceland, Switzerland, France, Costa Rica, Austria, Britain and New Zealand. (New Zealand led the first index in 2006.)
And Canada, No. 8 on the pilot 2006 list, dropped to No. 46 in 2010 before rebounding to No. 37 this year -- even though it ranked No. 1 in environmental health based on its air and water quality. It's hard to fathom how the rankings can change so sharply in the space of two years, given that environmental changes are often measured in decades.
The United States has risen somewhat from its lowest rank -- No. 61 in 2010 -- and now ranks 49th, dragged down largely by the low score it gets for its approach to climate change. On that measure, it is in 121st place.
It is not alone; "our analysis suggests that some issues are being successfully addressed at a worldwide scale, although performance on some other challenges, notably climate change, has declined globally," the authors write.
The report shows that some of the most underperforming countries fall into regional groups, like those in Central Asia (Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Mongolia), sub-Saharan Africa (including Congo, Nigeria and Cameroon) and southwestern Asia. (Iraq, where air quality and water availability continued to decline, came in dead last, and Iran, Kuwait, Yemen and Pakistan, with their ever thirstier ecosystems, weren't far ahead.)
The individual scores of the countries can be found at a Web site hosted by Yale University. The report is prepared by the Yale Center for Environmental Law & Policy and Columbia's Center for International Earth Science Information Network.
The two fastest-developing economies in the world ranked poorly, with India 125th out of 132 and China 116th. Both suffer from unhealthy air. It might come as a surprise to those familiar with the choking pollution around Beijing, which the government desperately tried to alleviate before the 2008 Olympic Games, that India's air quality ranks lowest, with China's a few notches above at No. 128.

        
U.S. Envoy Relieved by Climate Talks' Outcome
        
On Our Radar: A European Warning to Big Emitters
        
Coal Challenge Looms in China and India
        
On Our Radar: Weakening Brazil's Forest Protections
        
Is Fukushima a Roadblock, or Just a Speed Bump?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); AIR POLLUTION (75%); FISHERIES (73%); WHALING (72%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (55%) Air Pollution; China; climate change; Columbia University; Environmental Performance Index; Iceland; India; Latvia; Luxembourg; new zealand; Russia; Switzerland; United States; water quality; World Economic Forum; Yale University; Alternative Energy; fisheries; forests; Fossil Fuels; General Pollution; Health and Safety; Living

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%) World Economic Forum; Yale University

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); CHINA (92%); LATVIA (90%); DENMARK (90%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ICELAND (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); FRANCE (56%) China; India; Latvia; Russia; Switzerland; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1228 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: The Role of Austerity

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Government spending helped mitigate the recession, but its decline has been a significant drag on growth for more than a year now. 

 BODY:
 The chart here offers one of the better recent snapshots of the American economy that you will find.
 The blue line shows the rate at which the government -- federal, state and local -- has been growing or shrinking. The red line shows the same for the private sector.
 The brief version of the story is that the government, which helped mitigate the recession, has been a significant drag on growth for more than a year now.
 In 2007, both the private sector and government were growing. The government continued growing through 2008 and most of 2009, with the exception of one quarter when military spending fell. The private sector, though, began to shrink in 2008 and by late 2008, as the financial crisis took hold, it was shrinking rapidly.

 The government -- first the Federal Reserve and the Bush administration and then, more aggressively, the Fed and the Obama administration -- responded with various stimulus programs. They are the reason for the blue line's upward spike in 2009.
 The private sector began to recover in 2009. The recovery slowed in 2010 and again in 2011, as the dips in the red line show. But by the end of last year, the private sector was expanding at a healthy 4.5 percent annualized pace.
 Why, then, wasn't economic growth in the most recent quarter better than the 2.8 percent that the Commerce Department reported today? 
Because the economy is the combination of the private and public sectors. The public sector has been shrinking for the last year and a half -- mostly because of cuts in state and local government, with some federal cuts, especially to the military, playing a role as well. In the fourth quarter, government shrank at an annual rate of 4.5 percent.
 Over the last two years, the private sector grew at an average annual rate of 3.2 percent, while the government shrank at an annual rate of 1.4 percent.
 The combined result has been economic growth of 2.3 percent.
 People can obviously have a spirited debate about cause and effect here. I'm not aware of much research or evidence suggesting that short-term declines in government activity -- at least in a largely free-market economy -- cause short-term growth in the private sector.
Lacking such evidence, the obvious conclusion seems to be that economic growth, and employment growth, would have been significantly stronger over the last two years without government cuts. But I'd invite readers to point us to any research that bears on the question, one way or the other.

        
The Cost of Austerity
        
What Does 'Economic Growth' Mean for Americans?
        
Podcast: G.D.P., European Stocks, Bernanke and Bing
        
Ranking the Presidents by G.D.P.
        
Debt Fixes' Drag on the Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); PODCASTING (50%) austerity; economic growth; Gross Domestic Product; state and local government; stimulus; Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1229 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Alternatives to Safe Bonds

BYLINE: BUCKS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: Bucks readers offer their own strategies for dealing with low interest rates and a volatile stock market. 

 BODY:
Paul Sullivan, in his Wealth Matters column this week, discusses higher-yielding, but safe, alternatives to United States Treasuries and other high-grade bonds. Those bonds have long been the favorites of older investors because they were a safe way to guarantee income. At the moment, though, they're barely generating income.
And most anyone near retirement or already there has been wary of investing in the stock market, given the turbulence there.
So what other choices do older investors have? One alternative, Paul writes, puts aside four years of expenses in safe bonds, leaving the rest of the portfolio to grow. A second investor he spoke with avoids stocks and invests instead in real estate investment trusts, master limited partnerships (most often companies involved in the transportation of natural resources) and annuities.
What has been your investment strategy, given the low interest rates and a volatile stock market?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); REAL ESTATE (84%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1230 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: California Board Votes Unanimously to Toughen Zero-Emission Vehicle Mandate

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: The California Air Resources Board approved a recommendation that included the requirement of 1.4 million additional zero-emission and transitional zero-emission vehicles to be on state roads by 2025. 

 BODY:
In a unanimous vote on Friday, the California Air Resources Board, known as CARB, affirmed a major expansion of its Advanced Clean Car rules. According to CARB's projection, the program would result in an additional 1.4 million zero- and near-zero-emission vehicles on the state's roads by 2025.
Under the plan, 500,000 of those vehicles would be battery-electricor fuel-cell models that produce no tailpipe emissions. The rest would be plug-in hybrids that qualify as transitional zero-emission vehicles. The recommendation had wide support from environmentalists and many automakers before the vote.
At least one provision, however, was termed a loophole by some environmental groups. This provision would allow an automaker that surpassed the federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards in a particular year to accumulate credits. The credits could be applied in subsequent years, effectively delaying the automaker's need to build zero-emission vehicles.
Plug In America, a nonprofit group that advocates an accelerated shift to plug-in vehicles, called the provision "a gaping loophole which will cause the loss of hundreds of thousands of plug-in cars in California."
Mary D. Nichols, the CARB chairwoman, said in a conference call after the vote that the overcompliance allowance was "a valuable piece of the overall package."
Hyundai was among the automakers testifying for the overcompliance rule. "This flexibility allows Hyundai to significantly overcomply with CAFE and build a somewhat smaller number of zero-emission vehicles for a short time between 2018 and 2021," Mike O'Brien, a Hyundai product development vice president, said in a telephone interview after Friday's vote. "It will lead to more greenhouse gas reductions by Hyundai than without the provision."
California's program, which is scheduled to be phased in during the 2018 model year, is part of a broader package of regulations, also approved by CARB on Friday, that includes requirements for the construction of hydrogen filling stations for fuel-cell vehicles. Reductions in greenhouse gases and smog-causing pollutants are also mandated in the program.
Ms. Nichols said that wide support from environmental groups, consumers and automakers for the recommendations made the vote "one of the easiest decisions we've had to make."
Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade group, qualified her praise for Friday's outcome in a telephone interview. "In general, our reaction is that we are already building these clean cars, we hope they sell -- and it's now up to California to build the necessary electric charging stations and hydrogen fueling."
In a news release, CARB said the program would cut greenhouse gases from new cars in California 34 percent from 2016 levels and help create 21,000 jobs in the state by 2025. By that year, one in seven new cars sold in the state would be a battery-electric, fuel-cell or plug-in hybrid, according to CARB's projection.
"This is history," said David Friedman, deputy director for clean vehicles at the Union of Concerned Scientists, in a telephone interview. "With both California and the federal government moving forward, we're talking about a clean car revolution that won't just be televised, it will be driven."
The provision for overcompliance with the federal fuel economy standards, which require automakers to achieve fleetwide averages of 54.5 miles per gallon in 2025, may cause further debate in coming years.
"We're disappointed to see a special overcompliance carve-out for manufacturers included," Simon Mui, a clean vehicles scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a telephone interview. "It will lead to a reduction in clean vehicle numbers." But Mr. Mui also said CARB adopted "a good package, over all."

        
California to Consider Major Revision to Zero-Emission Mandate
        
California Air Board Moves to Increase Presence of Zero-Emissions Vehicles
        
Congressman Presses California on Fuel-Economy Standards
        
Consumer Reports Poll Shows Support for Stronger Fuel-Economy Standards
        
On Electric-Vehicle Incentives, Diesel Defenders Cry Foul

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (96%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (94%); EMISSIONS (94%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); SMOG (77%); GAS STATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%) Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers; CAFE standards; California Air Resources Board; E.V.; fuel cells; greenhouse gases; Hydrogen; Electric Vehicles; Environment; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (58%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1231 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Based in China? Why Not Commission One of These?

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Just how long have Americans and Europeans been vying to acquire badges proving their Chinese connection? Souren Melikian, the IHT's art critic, says that judging by two sales at Christie's this week, the race to China began the moment the United States came into existence. 

 BODY:
To trace the political and economic encounter between China and the West to its first mass flowering, read Souren Melikian's latest columnin the IHT. Reporting on two Christie's auctions this week, Souren shows how the meeting of East and West centuries ago yielded decorative and representative art. 
It was a two-way cultural exchange. British, American - and before that Swedish and Dutch - businessman and politicians, working in The Orient, as it was known, commissioned specially made china services, pieces of which sold this week for more than $10,000 at Christie's. 
And Asian artists adopted the motifs and methods of Europe. Souren describes a Chinese painting in oil on board depicting the American Hong ensconced in the distance between the English and the French Hongs.
The picture is equally enlightening in its craftsmanship. It says a lot about the Chinese aptitude at rapidly assimilating foreign techniques and using multiple models. The clouds owe a lot to English landscape painting while the Chinese boats in the bay are curiously reminiscent of the gondolas crowding the lagoon in Venetian landscapes. The picture also reveals the limitations in the understanding of foreign models in the early stages of assimilation - the reflections in the sea do not match the aspect of the sky. The Canton view brought $37,500, just below the high estimate of $40,000.
Souren reports that "making political statements by ordering porcelain services in China was an old tradition adopted long before by the Dutch. A plate executed around 1740 is painted with ships flying the Dutch flag anchored in Table Mountain Bay. The harbor view commemorates a naval victory that allowed the Dutch to seize control of the Cape of Good Hope in 1652. This was a strategic territory, which allowed traders to rest halfway through the six-month voyage from Western Europe to Canton. The triumphalist plate rose to $13,750, above the high estimate, reflecting the significance of the event."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ART DEALERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MOUNTAINS (67%) Art; View From Asia

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1232 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Five Years Later, a New Reality

BYLINE: SAM DOLNICK


HIGHLIGHT: From 2003 to 2005, Thomas Holton followed the Lams, a Chinese family living in a two-room apartment on Ludlow Street in Manhattan. Five years later, he returned to find a messier reality. 

 BODY:
When Thomas Holton began visiting the Lam family in 2003, he was struck by how much life they fit inside their 350-square-foot apartment on Ludlow Street in Manhattan. Three small children, their parents, relatives and friends, a bathtub in the kitchen, with clothes racks above the table. It was a jumble that fascinated him for its grit, warmth and can-do optimism.
But as Mr. Holton got to know the Lams, he became less interested in their square-foot compromises and more intrigued with them as individuals, not only as immigrants. "It became much more a story about any family," said Mr. Holton, 42. "It didn't matter that they were Chinese. It became much more about life in general and the dynamics of a family."
He photographed the Lams from 2003 to 2005, earning some acclaim, and he continued to visit them frequently. Over the years, he began to notice subtle shifts as the children grew older and the parents' struggles in New York took a toll. In 2010, he decided it was time to shoot pictures of the family again.
Mr. Holton's new photographs of the Lams depict more weariness than optimism. What once looked like an adventure now looks like a burden. Michael, 15, the oldest son and a sophomore at Stuyvesant High School, is weighed down by his homework and household chores. His father, Steven - who was unemployed for a stretch in recent years but now has a job - is often captured alone and pensive. Shirley, who used to care full-time for her children, now works long hours outside the home caring for an elderly woman.
Life has become harder and lonelier, and the cramped quarters feel ever tighter.
"There's a tension sometimes you can't air out because it's so tight," Mr. Holton said.
The new photographs are unflinching, and perhaps even more intimate, even if they are, as Mr. Holton calls them, "a little heavier in tone."
"I tried to capture the new reality," he said. "Life is messy."
Because of an editing error, a caption with a Lens blog picture essay in some editions last Sunday about a family that lives in cramped quarters in Chinatown misstated the employment status of the father, Steven Lam. While he has been unemployed in recent years, as the article correctly noted, he is not currently unemployed.

        
The Heart of the Matter: Love
        
Lost and Alone Under Tokyo's Red Rain
        
On the Cliffs, a World Apart
        
A World of Change on the Lower East Side
        
Crime Scene Investigation: 360 Degrees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); FAMILY (90%); IMMIGRATION (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%) Children; Family; Immigrant communities; Lam family; Ludlow Street; Manhattan; Metropolitan; Sam Dolnick; Sasha Wolf Gallery; Thomas Holton; Immigration and Emigration; Photography; Manhattan (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012



1233 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: "It Will Be Nothing Like London During World War II."

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: Israel's top leaders argue that the costs to Israel of a preemptive strike on Iran would be bearable. They also estimate that Iran's nuclear program is about nine months away from being able to withstand an Israeli attack. Two reports in The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune do the math. 

 BODY:
One of the ways that nations decide what actions to take is through a calculation of means, ends and costs. 
Ethan Bronner, The New York Times's Jerusalem bureau chief, reports in "Israel Senses Bluffing in Iran's Threats of Retaliation" that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak of Israel are making it widely known that they believe that the military, economic and diplomatic costs of an attack on Iran will be bearable, and that whatever the price, the cost of waiting until Iran has a nuclear capability will be exponentially greater:
The core analysis is based on an examination of Iran's interests and abilities, along with recent threats and conflicts. Before the United States-led war against Iraq in 1991, Saddam Hussein vowed that if attacked he would "burn half of Israel." He fired about 40 Scud missiles at Israel, which did limited damage. Similar fears of retaliation were voiced before the Iraq war in 2003 and in 2006, during Israel's war against Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. In the latter, about 4,000 rockets were fired at Israel by Hezbollah, most of them causing limited harm.
"If you put all those retaliations together and add in the terrorism of recent years, we are probably facing some multiple of that," a retired official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity, citing an internal study. "I'm not saying Iran will not react. But it will be nothing like London during World War II." 
Ronen Bergman, an analyst for the Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth with deep military and intelligence sources, writes in The New York Times Magazine, in "Will Israel Attack Iran?" that Mr. Barak is convinced that doing something is better than doing nothing - a line of thinking that was also prevalent in the administration of George W. Bush before the attack on Iraq. 
And Mr. Barak believes that the window will close soon. "Barak underscored that if Israel or the rest of the world waits too long, the moment will arrive - sometime in the coming year, he says - beyond which it will no longer be possible to act," Ronen writes. Some top Israeli military and intelligence veterans believe just as strongly that an attack on Iran would be detrimental to Israel. 
Both Ethan and Ronen note that Israeli leaders trumpeting far and wide that Israel could withstand the aftereffects of an attack on Iran could be strategic - "as much message delivery as actual policy," Ethan writes. The idea would be that Iran, convinced that Israel is willing to wage war, will curtail its nuclear ambitions, making it unnecessary for Israel to wage war.
Most striking, no one argues in either report - or in an in-depth post on his blog by former Times editor Bill Keller, "How About Not Bombing Iran?" - that an attack on Iran will prevent that country from acquiring the capability to make a nuclear bomb. Hence, Ronen writes, the Obama administration's reported determination that Iran acquiring a nuclear capability is inevitable and that the United States's goal should be to keep Iran from ever making a weapon.
Often missing from the debate over what will happen next is the question of the dynamic operating at the top of Iran's political leadership. Read Meir Javedanfar, an analyst who is also an Iranian-born Israeli, on that crucial variable in the equation.

        
Strange Bedfellows in the Conflict with Iran
        
Why Saudi Oil Pledge Could Prove Hollow
        
Israel's Clash of Civilizations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) Iran; Israel; nuclear proliferation; United States; Barak, Ehud; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Defense and Military Forces; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%) Barak, Ehud; Netanyahu, Benjamin

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%) ISRAEL (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); ASIA (79%) Iran; Israel

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1234 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Offers Upbeat U.S. Outlook, With European Caveat

BYLINE: LIZ ALDERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The United States is likely to grow 2 percent to 3 percent this year, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in Davos, Switzerland, unless Europe fails to keep a lid on its chronic sovereign debt crisis or tensions flare with Iran. 

 BODY:
12:01 p.m. | Updated 
DAVOS, Switzerland--With the economy taking center stage in the U.S. presidential campaign, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner delivered an upbeat growth outlook Friday, but warned that America's recovery could still be derailed by geopolitical and financial troubles abroad.
The United States is likely to grow at 2 to 3 percent this year, Mr. Geithner told a large audience here at the World Economic Forum, unless Europe fails to keep a lid on its chronic sovereign debt crisis or a rise in tensions between Iran and the international community stoke global oil prices.
Mr. Geithner's remarks came as the government reported that the U.S. economy grew at an expanded annual rate of 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, better than the 1.8 percent rate of the third quarter but not fast enough, economists said, to stoke a meaningful recovery or help sharply reduce the nation's high unemployment rate. 
The U.S. Federal Reserve this week warned that the economy would need help for years to come, partly because Europe's troubles, if not swiftly resolved, could undermine the nascent recovery. The central bank took the unprecedented step of announcing it would keep interest rates at near zero through late 2014 to encourage growth. 
Apart from Europe, other shocks could yet emerge, including from Iran, should its confrontation with the West over the nuclear issue help stoke a rise in oil prices, Mr. Geithner said. On Thursday, Iran threatened to cut oil exports to Europe even before an embargo on Iran takes effect this summer.
While fears of an outright breakup of Europe's 17-nation monetary union have subsided, any new flareup could richochet back across the Atlantic, something that Mr. Geithner, President Barack Obama and Republican presidential candidates have cited as a threat to the U.S. outlook. 
But Mr. Geithner said Friday he would not object to the International Monetary Fund, whose biggest shareholder is the United States, pumping more money to the Europeans if they erect a bigger financial firewall-like the TARP program that Washington pushed through after Lehman Brothers collapsed. That is what is needed, he said, to persuade investors that Europe's problems can be contained.
"We believe the IMF can play a more supportive, constructive role," he said. "But it can't be a substitute for a more effective European response."
Europe and the United States are pursuing fiscal strategies to curb a mountain of debt and cut borrowing to escape the lingering scourge of the 2008 financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis that has gripped Europe for the last two years. Washington has been more willing than the Europeans to maintain some stimulus, and the Fed has kept monetary policy looser than the European Central Bank has. 
Now, the result of these policies seem to be propelling their economies toward diverging paths. The euro-zone economy is headed into its second recession in three years, while America is showing signs of climbing out of its downturn.
Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, on Wednesday acknowledged that European governments need to focus more energy on reviving growth. But in a speech at Davos, she maintained that countries stricken by the sovereign debt crisis needed to continue paring debts and deficits to prevent the crisis from spreading.
George Soros, the billionaire hedge fund investor, is one of many who argue that the German prescription for Europe's troubles has done more harm than good. By imposing an orthodox austerity policy, Germany risks creating a deflationary spiral that "could lead to a lost decade" in Europe, he said in Davos this week. 
The accusation drew a tart retort Friday from Germany's stalwart finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble. "I don't agree with George Soros-not surprisingly," he declared here on a stage he shared with the finance ministers of France and Spain. "If you want to create more growth, you can't deliver this by only spending more public money. You need structural reforms."
Mr. Geithner said Europe had already made some progress in getting its problems under control, a view that seems to have replaced a stark fear, held until just a short while ago, that the euro could break apart and trigger a new paralysis in global financial markets on par with the collapse of Lehman. 
"Over the last two months in particular they are laying the foundation for a more credible framework," Mr. Geithner said of Europe. "There have been three new governments. The ECB is doing what central banks have to do, and they are trying to strengthen the financial sector," he said. 
 "It's amazing," Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, told the World Economic Forum shortly after Mr. Geithner climbed down from the main stage. Only a few months ago, Mr. Draghi was chiding political leaders for not doing enough. "If you compare today to even five months ago, the euro zone is a different world," he said. 
 He cautioned, though, that it may take a while before bond investors recognize the progress and that borrowing costs for countries like Italy and Spain fall. After underestimating the risk of government bonds in the years leading up to the crisis, investors "are overshooting government risk and this may go on for a while," Mr. Draghi said. "These things don't wash away immediately."
Continued troubles in Greece do not help. Nervousness has flared anew as Greece negotiates a deal with its international creditors to avoid defaulting on its massive debt within the next couple of months.
Ollie Rehn, the European commissioner responsible for economic affairs, said Friday at Davos that a deal could be reached as early as this weekend. But that does not guarantee that Greece, whose economy is devastated amid the crisis, won't be at default's doorstep yet again in the future, or that new troubles there will not make investors worry further down the road about other weak links in Europe, including Portugal and Spain.
Indeed, Mr. Geithner emphasized that the Europeans have unfinished business in creating a more credible financial firewall to convince investors that the euro union has the wherewithal to prevent the crisis from spreading to large countries. "Without it they will be caught in trap," he said. 
At the same time, he acknowledged that America's $14 trillion economy still faces ''tremendous challenges'' of its own, hobbled by the devestation of the financial crisis. Although employers have added hundreds of thousands of jobs over the last several months, unemployment remains unacceptably high, Mr. Geithner said, the housing sector remains weak, and households still hold too much debt. 
As in Europe, America's high debt and deficit remain a concern. But focusing on fiscal-belt tightening at a time when the economy is struggling to recover isn't the answer, he suggested. 
"Our fiscal problems are daunting, but they are more manageable than almost any other country around world," he said. "Given the high level of unemployment, appalingly high rates of poverty in the United States, and an erosion of people's confidence in their mobility," he said, restoring fiscal sustainability is part of the answer, "but it's not the dominant challenge we face as a country."

        
Draghi Points to Signs of Stress in Financial System
        
Hedge Funds Scramble to Unload Greek Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); DEBT CRISIS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%) International Monetary Fund; Iran; Lehman Brothers; sovereign debt crisis; Timothy Geithner; U.S. Federal Reserve; World Economic Forum; Geithner, Timothy F; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); United States Economy; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2; World Economic Forum in Davos

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1235 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The $2 Billion Addition Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Nissan is expanding its production capacity in North America, announcing a $2 billion plant to be built in Aguascalientes, Mexico. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Nissan recently announced it would build a $2 billion factory in Aguascalientes, Mexico, to support production of compact cars in North America. Scheduled to open in late 2013, the plant would have capacity to build 175,000 cars a year and would supplement Nissan's two other plants in the country. Earlier this year, the automaker was rumored to be jointly building a plant in Mexico with Daimler, its strategic partner, but Daimler was not mentioned in Nissan's media materials and has not publicly commented on Nissan's announcement. (Nissan)
 Manal al-Sharif, the Saudi woman who was jailed last May after defying Saudi Arabia's ban on female drivers, was reported killed in an automobile accident Wednesday by Agence France-Presse. The Guardian, however, was contacted by Ms. Sharif after the report was widely distributed by other media outlets. She said the identity of the crash victim would remain anonymous at the request of the woman's family. (The Guardian)
 Representatives from Congress visited the Washington auto show during press previews Thursday, during which praise for Detroit's automakers was liberally sprinkled. Representative Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he was confident that domestic automakers would meet and exceed corporate average fuel economy standards for the 2017-25 model years. "I'm very optimistic," he said. (The Detroit News)
BMW released details this week about its first M Performance vehicles, conceived to fit between the high-performance cars of the M division and their standard equivalents. Dave Buchko, a BMW of North America spokesman, said the vehicles announced this week would not be sold in the United States. Each features a 3-liter in-line 6-cylinder diesel engine generating 381 horsepower and 546 pound-feet of torque, with assistance from three turbochargers. The engine appears in a 5 Series sedan and wagon, as well as the X5 and X6 crossovers. Special M badging distinguishes the cars from the standard models, but the bodies bear few other outward signifiers of the M division. (BMW)
ParkWhiz, an online parking-reservation service previously featured by Wheels, reports that the average price paid to secure a private parking space through the service for Super Bowl XLVI stands at $156. Reservations originating from New York account for 19 percent of total sales, more than any other state. Indiana, where the game is to be played, is second, accounting for 16 percent of sales.

        
Wheelies: The Potsdam Bread-Van Edition
        
Future Infiniti G Could Get Mercedes-Benz 4-Cylinder
        
Wheelies: The Skunkworks Edition
        
Some Cuban-Americans Object to Image of Che Guevara in Daimler Presentation at C.E.S.
        
The Car, a Coveted Piece of Consumer Technology at C.E.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PLANT CAPACITY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); SEDANS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%) daimler; Nissan; Saudi Arabia; Sharif, Manal al-; Automobiles; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Nissan Motor Co; Mexico; Industry News; New Cars

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (84%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (51%); BETSY MARKEY (51%) Sharif, Manal al-

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (91%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1236 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: BNP Paribas Said to Be Selling $11 Billion of Loans

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: France's largest bank is looking to sell up to $11 billion of loans to oil and gas companies in an effort to reduce its loan book in the United States, according to people briefed on the matter. 

 BODY:
LONDON -- The French bank BNP Paribas is looking to sell up to $11 billion of loans to oil and gas companies in an effort to reduce its loan book in the United States, according to people briefed on the matter.
BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, is trying to reduce its balance sheet by 70 billion euros, or $92 billion, in risk weighted assets by the end of the year to meet new capital requirements, known as Basel III. The bank is being advised by Lazard on this most recent deal, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
The bank, based in Paris, wants to increase its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of an institution's ability to weather financial shocks, to 9 percent by 2013, under regulations developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in Switzerland. Under slightly different rules mandated by the European Banking Authority, BNP Paribas and other European banks must increase their core Tier 1 ratios to 9 percent by June.
Potential bidders for BNP Paribas's loan book may include a number of North American banks, including Wells Fargo, according to people briefed on the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk publicly. The French bank plans to cut its financing in dollars by $60 billion by the end of the year.
Representatives for Lazard and Wells Fargo declined to comment.
In a statement, a BNP Paribas spokeswoman said the bank "does not comment on which assets are up for sale, and it is important to note that BNP Paribas is not exiting its oil and gas business and remains committed to its energy investment banking business for strategic clients in North America and indeed globally."
The bank's effort to sell the loans was reported earlier by The Financial Times and Reuters.
Like other European banks, BNP Paribas is looking to scale back its operations and improve its capital base in response to Europe's ongoing debt crisis. Last November, the bank announced that it would layoff 1,400 workers in its corporate and investment bank unit.
Earlier in January, a French rival, Societe Generale, also announced job cuts in its investment banking operations in France and its international units. The French bank Credit Agricole is also planning to eliminate 2,350 jobs as part of an effort to adapt to continued instability in world financial markets.

        
Europe Investigating Banks Over Derivatives
        
European Banks Prepare More Job Cuts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) BNP Paribas; Credit Agricole; Lazard; Societe Generale; Wells Fargo &; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; BNP Paribas|BNPQY|other-OTC; Energy; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); BNP PARIBAS SA (92%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (65%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BNP Paribas

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); BNP (PAR) (92%); BNP (BIT) (92%); ACA (PAR) (58%); ACA (BIT) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%) BNP Paribas; BNPQY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012



1237 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
In Punishing Year for Hedge Funds, Biggest One Thrived | The world's biggest hedge fund is also one of the best performers.
Bridgewater Associates, which manages nearly $120 billion, posted returns of 23 percent in 2011 - a year when the average hedge fund portfolio lost 5 percent.
Against the backdrop of fear over European debt and stagnant global growth, the hedge fund, led by one of Wall Street's more enigmatic titans, Ray Dalio, sidestepped the mess. The fund did it with bets on United States Treasuries, German bonds and the Japanese yen, according to people familiar with the firm's investment strategy, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is private.
Such performance adds up. Over the last 20 years, Bridgewater had annualized returns of 14.7 percent, amounting to $50 billion of gains for investors. Over the same period, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks returned about 8.7 percent a year.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Pershing Square to See Name in Lights | William A. Ackman's foundation donated $25 million to the Signature Theatre in New York, which will now rename its off-Broadway complex the "Pershing Square Signature Center," after Mr. Ackman's hedge fund.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Gloomy Greek Outlook Threatens Bailout Talks | The International Monetary Fund has quietly been sharing grim new analysis about Greece with the country's creditors and European officials, as the Greek government negotiates for debt relief and for another allotment of bailout money, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Speaking Softly and Twisting Arms | Lael Brainard, a Treasury under secretary who is the country's top financial diplomat, operates behind the scenes in negotiations with European leaders, taking a calm approach but twisting arms when necessary, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Is the 'End of the Euro' Over? | Among leaders gathering in Davos, the talk seems to be have shifted away from doomsday forecasts of an imminent euro collapse, reports Jack Ewing of The New York Times. Instead, the debate is focusing on the best way for the euro zone to weather an economic downturn.
DealBook 
Millionaires vs. Billionaires | Even steeper than the divide between the 99 percent and the 1 percent is the gulf between the 1 percent and the 0.1 percent, Chrystia Freeland writes in Reuters.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Eastman Chemical to Buy Solutia for $3.4 Billion | Eastman Chemical said on Friday that it would acquire the specialty chemicals manufacturer Solutia for $3.38 billion, as it looks to expand in the emerging markets.
DealBook 
Icahn Prepares for Showdown With Oshkosh | Carl C. Icahn, who holds roughly 10 percent stakes in Oshkosh and Navistar, and wants to see the rival truck makers merge, is set for a confrontation at Friday's annual shareholder meeting, when his proposed slate of directors will be put to a vote, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
AT&T Reports Loss After Failed Merger | The company reported a $6.7 billion loss for the fourth quarter, largely as a result of fees from its breakup with T-Mobile, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
AT&T Warns of Price Increases Without Spectrum | Burned by the government's opposition to its ill-fated merger with T-Mobile, AT&T said regulations now stand in the way of its plan to acquire more airwaves, adding that the company will have to increase prices if the deal doesn't go through, The New York Times Bits blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
BNP Puts Energy Portfolio on the Block | BNP Paribas is selling up to $11 billion of oil and gas company loans and is talking to at least three potential buyers, The Financial Times reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the situation.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Hana's Korea Exchange Bank Deal Approved | The Hana Financial Group got a green light to pay $3.5 billion to Lone Star Funds for a 51 percent stake in the Korea Exchange Bank, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
2 Biotech Firms Bolster Their Drug Pipelines Through Deals | Amgen and Celgene are separately acquiring two smaller companies that are harnessing novel technologies to develop drug treatments for leukemias and lymphomas.
DealBook 
Amgen to Buy Micromet for $1.16 Billion | Micromet designs cancer treatments that target blood and solid tumor cancers, including leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
DealBook 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
UniCredit Investors See Rewards | Investors who bought UniCredit rights at the end of Jan. 9, the first day of the offering, could see a 75 percent gain if they convert to shares at the Jan. 26 closing price, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
UniCredit Has Few Imitators | The Italian bank's rights offer, which is being completed on Friday after leading the stock to a hair-raising decline earlier this month, is unlikely to inspire many banks to follow suit, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
Bank Austerity in Fashion at Davos | Since last year's meeting in Davos, financial companies have announced more than 238,000 job cuts, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Royal Bank of Scotland Slashes C.E.O.'s Bonus | Royal Bank of Scotland -- 82 percent owned by British taxpayers -- had come under pressure from Prime Minister David Cameron to rein in bonuses for top executives.
DealBook 
Bank of America Said to Cap Cash Bonuses | The bank plans to limit cash bonuses to $150,000 for investment bankers whose total bonuses reach $1 million, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the plans.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Credit Suisse Said to Cut Pay by 30 Percent | Senior investment bankers at the Swiss bank were told that compensation for 2011 would be 30 percent less than the previous year, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people briefed on the discussions.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
An Era Ends With Ackermann's Departure | Josef Ackermann, soon to step down as the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, became one of the industry's most powerful bankers, who led a campaign to water down financial regulation, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Video: Sorkin's Interview With Dimon | Jamie Dimon, the chief of JPMorgan Chase, told Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland, on Thursday that a default by Greek banks would not be a disaster. "The direct impact of a Greek default is almost zero," Mr. Dimon said.
CNBC
Dimon Says He Considered Retreat From Europe | Jamie Dimon said during a debate in Davos that ultimately JPMorgan "made a decision which was largely social, and partially economic, to stay," The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
UBS Brazil Executive Departs | Eduardo Centola, who ran investment banking for the Swiss bank in Brazil, has left after just 15 months with the company, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Banks Pile into German Bonds | As banks reduced their lending to fellow financial institutions and to the governments of Italy, France and Spain, they stocked up on the bonds of Germany, Japan and the United States, Bloomberg News reports, citing data from the Bank for International Settlements.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Bad Publicity Makes Pension Funds Think Twice | The negative portrayal of private equity in response to Mitt Romney's campaign is making some officials and trustees at public pension funds have doubts about their investments, at a time when the buyout industry is competing for scarce investor capital, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Private Equity Leaders Fear Loss of Tax Break | With the heat turned up on their industry, some private equity executives fear changes could come to the carried interest tax break, The Financial Times reports.
"We have gone from an obscure corner of the asset management industry to a lead defendant in the Salem witch trials," one unnamed senior executive told the newspaper.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Buyout Shops Have $193 Billion for North America | The private equity industry's combined North American warchest is more than the available capital for all other regions combined, according to the research firm Preqin, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
British Politician in Management Buyout | John Gummer, formerly a Tory minister in Britain, participated in a $3.9 million management buyout of Valpak, a compliance company, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Blackstone Said to Prepare Bid for Chicago Tower | The Blackstone Group is close to finalizing a deal to buy mezzanine debt of the John Hancock Center, the iconic Chicago tower, so that it can try to take control of the building, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the situation.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Romney Invested in Hedge Funds | Roughly a third of the assets in Mitt Romney's Individual Retirement Account are in hedge funds, mostly run by Bain Capital, The Boston Globe reports. A separate trust under his wife's name has about $6 million of its $40 million of assets in hedge funds.
BOSTON GLOBE
Texas School Fund Laments Hedge Fund Fees | The Permanent School Fund, which finances Texas public schools, said hedge fund fees caused a negative return, adding that it may consider hiring an in-house asset manager, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Broker Faces Fine in Connection to Einhorn | British regulators are seeking to fine a former Bank of America Merrill Lynch broker roughly $550,000 for participating in questionable trading by the hedge fund manager David Einhorn, who was fined $11 million in the case, The Financial Times reports. 
FINANCIAL TIMES
Investors Pull Out of Commodities | Investors and traders cut bets on 13 commodity contracts by 19 percent last year, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Netflix Gets Some of its Groove Back | The company's shares rose as much as 26 percent, hitting a three-month high, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Roundy's Aims to Raise $111 Million | The supermarket company said in documents filed on Thursday it hopes to price stock at $10 to $12 a share, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports.
JOURNAL SENTINEL
Video: Sorkin's Interview With Sean Parker | Sean Parker, a founder of Napster and former president of Facebook, told Andrew Ross Sorkin that he believed the social networking site's initial public offering could be the biggest in history
CNBC
Excitement Builds for Facebook Filing | "The minute the I.P.O. is filed, there will be pandemonium," Scott Sweet, an analyst at I.P.O. Boutique, told The Los Angeles Times.
LOS ANGELES TIMES
February Looks Stronger for I.P.O.'s | While this month is set to be the slowest January for American I.P.O.'s since 2009, February promises a slate of new deals, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Britain Plans Green Energy Fund | The British government has committed roughly $179 million with the aim of attracting private investors for a public-private fund of about $4.7 billion to invest in renewable energy, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Solyndra's Specter Haunts Renewable Power Industry | Wind and solar companies say they cannot be truly competitive without continued government support, but their lobbying comes as lawmakers have lost their appetite for such subsidies, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
SoftTech Raises $55 Million Fund | SoftTech V.C., a firm that focuses on mobile technology, cloud-based services and Internet commerce, raised its third fund, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
Internet Flexes Political Muscle | Controversial antipiracy legislation, which inspired a Web protest last week, garnered more attention among Americans under the age of 30 than even news of the presidential elections, according to a Pew Research Center poll, The New York Times reports. "No one can predict what will catch on," said Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit.
NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
In Perelman Lawsuit, a Fight Over Files Not Deleted | At issue is whether Donald Drapkin, who is suing Ronald O. Perelman, violated his separation contract by retaining files and e-mails found on his assistant's laptop at MacAndrews & Forbes.
DealBook 
S.E.C. Accuses Firms and Latvian Trader of Market Abuse | The Securities and Exchange Commission filed actions against the Latvian trader, who is accused of making more than $850,000 in illegal profits, and the four electronic trading firms he used.
DealBook 
Khuzami Defends S.E.C. Clause | The "neither admit nor deny" clause in Securities and Exchange Commission settlements allows the agency to get money for investors "without the risk of getting nothing," Robert S. Khuzami, the head of enforcement, told Charlie Rose, adding that in the case of Citigroup, "it's pretty clear from the overall package that it's an implicit acknowledgment of wrongdoing."
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Gillibrand Enters Volcker Rule Fray | The Democratic senator expressed concerns to regulators about the potential for "inconsistent enforcement across regulatory agencies."
DealBook 
European Officials Fear Volcker Rule Effects | The European Commission is concerned that the Volcker Rule could discourage banks from trading the bonds of European countries, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Romney Disclosure Points to a Complex Tax Code | A mistake in the tax returns Mitt Romney's campaign released this week highlights the mind-numbing complexity of tax laws, which apparently stymied one of Mr. Romney's trustees, writes Floyd Norris of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
California Said to Turn Down $15 Billion in Mortgage Aid | In settlement talks among state attorneys general and banks, the state rejected an offer of lower monthly mortgage payments and reduced loan balances for distressed borrowers, The Financial Times reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Stanford Claimed Bank Had Cash Despite Warnings | In October 2008, the accused Ponzi schemer R. Allen Stanford told executives that his bank had $5.5 billion in excess cash, despite receiving private warnings that cash was running low, according to a video played at his trial, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
The Return of the Bankruptcy Bonus | Though a 2005 law intends to curb pay for executives whose companies are in bankruptcy, some companies have been able to sidestep the measure by crafting "incentive" plans, which reward executives for hitting certain performance targets, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); CHEMICALS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (83%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MERGERS (77%); BONDS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); EURO (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); THEATER (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EURO ZONE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); RAY DALIO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); GREECE (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1238 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Heating Up

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A heated presidential debate Thursday capped off a tough day on the campaign trail in Florida. 

 BODY:
Today's Times:

        
Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich traded jabs in the last presidential debate before Tuesday's primary in Florida, capping off one of the hardest-fighting days of the nominating contests so far, Jim Rutenberg and Jeff Zeleny report.

        
From the beginning of his career in Congress, Mr. Gingrich used ethics complaints for political gain. But he was bombarded with ethics chargeshimself in the end, Sheryl Gay Stolberg reports.

        
In the wake of President Obama's "dustup" with Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, Democrats think the episode could help him with Hispanic voters, many of whom are not fans of the governor because of her support for tough immigration policies, Helene Cooper reports.

        
Republicans have traditionally deferred to party leaders when it comes to choosing their presidential nominees, but in this grass-roots era, the leaders are ceding some of their power to organizations like the Tea Party. Richard W. Stevenson writes about whether it will matter to voters that party leaders are discouraging them from choosing Mr. Gingrich.

        
The Senate approved a $1.2 trillion on Thursday, refusing to take up the "resolution of disapproval" the House passed on the matter last week, Robert Pear reports.
Washington Happenings:

        
On Friday, Mr. Obama will discuss college affordability at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Then he will speak at the House Democratic Issues Conference in Cambridge, Md. In the evening, he will attend a campaign event in Washington.

        
The Commerce Department will release its fourth-quarter gross domestic product on Friday.

        
The Early Word: Compare and Contrast
        
The Early Word: Tricky Terrain
        
The Early Word: Moving On
        
The Weekend Word: Nail-Biter
        
The Early Word: Reformer to Insider

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); STUDENT EXPENSES (65%); IMMIGRATION (54%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); MITT ROMNEY (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JAN BREWER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1239 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Davos Potpourri, Day 3: Masters of Creation

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: Despite being misunderstood by sci-fi nerds the world over, the event in Davos - the one in Switzerland - is proceeding at a brisk, impressive clip this week. 

 BODY:
Every year, the world's elites flock to the World Economic Forum to either solve the world's economic problems, drink flights of 100-point Parker wines or both, simultaneously.
And every year, non-elites mistake Davos, the quaint Swiss villa where the forum is held, with Davros, the evil arch-nemesis character in the British sci-fi television series "Doctor Who." Davros, says the BBC, creates a class of mutants called the Daleks to "ensure the survival of his race and, ultimately, their mastery over all of creation."
This year, some in the Twittersphere still couldn't get it right.
@devonsaysrelax devon
Each time I read about the "Davos Conference" I mistakingly read it as "Davros Conference" which makes me think: "DOCTOR WHO CONFERENCE."
Thu Jan 26 19:47:35 via devon
@GaryInToronto Gareth!
Davos sounds a lot like Davros so I keep wondering why the Daleks are meeting in Switzerland #fb
Fri Jan 27 0:22:50 via Gareth!
@jennyangliss Jenny Angliss
Every time they talk about #Davos I think they're saying #Davros. He'd sort the economy out by giving them a hard stare and zapping them.
Thu Jan 26 21:03:36 via Jenny Angliss
Still, despite being misunderstood by sci-fi nerds the world over, the event in Davos - the one in Switzerland - is proceeding at a brisk, impressive clip this week.
In the last 24 hours, Timothy F. Geithner told Davos-goers that 2 percent to three percent growth in the United States would be in the realm of possibility. Also in the realm of possibility: an armistice between Occupy Davos and the WEF, after the WEF founder, Klaus Schwab, offered to meet with the protestors on Saturday.
On camera, Lawrence H. Summers talked on CNBC about getting the economy back on track and Sean Parker told DealBook's Andrew Ross Sorkin that an Facebook I.P.O. could be the biggest public offering in history. Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, told Bloomberg TV that, James P. Gorman of Morgan Stanley, he would not tell his employees to leave if they were unhappy over subpar bonuses. "Our employees know what they're contributed and how they're paid," Mr. Moynihan said. "I just stay away from that."
And while Bloomberg's Christine Harper reported that big-name bankers seem more cautious this year,Henry Blodget of Business Insider caught two moguls dishing on their private jet plans.
As for the Twitter cadre of reporters, industry bigwigs and hangers-on whose every Davos dispatch enraptures us? Sadly, it seems that the endless parties and world-solving sessions of the last three days have worn them down.
@DeirdreHipwell Deirdre Hipwell
Davos Day Three Everyone starting to look rumpled and "tired" (aka hungover)...Ed Miliband walked past in exceedlngly creased suit tut tut
Fri Jan 27 8:06:23 via Deirdre Hipwell
@amoren Ahmet M Oren
Two parties and dinner done. Next stop Microsoft party. And a few more. Hope to catch some sleep at some point. #WEF
Thu Jan 26 19:34:52 via Ahmet M Oren
@moiraforbes Moira Forbes
In #Davos- jet lagged, can't sleep, & raided last of over-priced swiss chocolate in mini bar-may have spent more on choc than plane ticket
Fri Jan 27 3:05:57 via Moira Forbes
@Clare_OC Clare O'Connor
Last night ended at Hotel Europe piano bar. Eric Schmidt & Steve Cohen were there. I smoked a cigar and feel a tad worse for wear. #Davos
Fri Jan 27 10:58:12 via Clare O'Connor
Stay strong, brave Davosians. Only two more days!

        
Davos Potpourri, Day 2: The Party Never Ends
        
Davos Potpourri: Day One

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Davos Switzerland; Davros; Doctor Who; Twitter; World Economic Forum; Geithner, Timothy F; Gorman, James P; Miliband, Edward S; Moynihan, Brian T; Parker, Sean; Schwab, Klaus; Summers, Lawrence H; Top Headline 2; World Economic Forum in Davos

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%) World Economic Forum

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%); MS (NYSE) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (83%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (67%); JAMES GORMAN (63%) Geithner, Timothy F; Gorman, James P; Miliband, Edward S; Moynihan, Brian T; Parker, Sean; Schwab, Klaus; Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1240 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Pass the STOCK Act: It's Beyond a No-Brainer

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Of course there should be a ban on congressional insider trading. 

 BODY:
It looks like the STOCK Act, which would bar members of Congress and their staffs from insider trading, will actually come to the floor next week.
That Congress should pass the bill is beyond a no-brainer. Changing the tax code so that Warren Buffett pays a higher rate than his secretary, extending unemployment insurance, investigating mortgage abuses that led to the financial meltdown those are no-brainers, at least once we acknowledge that what's obviously correct does not lie exactly between what the Democrats want and what the Republicans are willing to do.
But spelling out that members of Congress shouldn't use non-public information gained through their jobs to line their pockets? As Financial Services Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus allegedly did, according to a 60 Minutes investigation? That's more in the category of (Oh, just by the way, The New York Times' ethics policy bar me and many other editors and reporters from owning individual companies' stocks, except Times stock, for the obvious reason that we hear non-public information sometimes and our opinions and news reporting can influence prices.)

Given that, it's hard for me to sit back and have one of those rare moments of optimism when I allow myself to think that Washington can still get it together to do the right thing. Besides, the bill probably doesn't go far enough. The current version, filed in the Senate by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, a Democrat, and Scott Brown of Massachusetts, a Republican, does not actually prevent lawmakers from owning stock related to issues they're handling.
Commendable as it may be for Mr. Brown to get behind this good-government measure, it's also a deeply political move. He's trying to establish himself as a Wall Street reformer since he'll be taking on Elizabeth Warren, she of Consumer Protection Bureau fame, in the next election. It won't be the easiest sell. When he first came into office, he distinguished himself by watering down Dodd-Frank financial reform law, stripping a bank tax provision.

        
How to Buy Friends and Influence Politicians
        
Does Elizabeth Warren Read My Blog?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); POLITICS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); NEWS REPORTING (67%); CONSUMER LAW (64%) Kirsten Gillibrand; Scott Brown; STOCK Act; Brown, Scott P; Gillibrand, Kirsten E; Insider Trading

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (89%); SCOTT BROWN (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (89%); WARREN BUFFETT (77%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%) Brown, Scott P; Gillibrand, Kirsten E

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1241 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: At Retreat, Biden Rallies House Democrats

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. delivered an overtly political speech challenging the economic pronouncements of Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney while setting the bar high for his ticket's re-election. 

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Md. - Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., addressing a retreat for House Democrats on Friday, delivered an overtly political speech challenging the economic pronouncements of Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney while setting the bar high for his re-election as President Obama's second in command.
Mr. Biden spoke without notes and criticized by name the two front-runners for the Republican presidential nomination.
"I don't want to get going on these guys. I know that's not appropriate," he said, before doing just that.
He castigated Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, for having said that automakers should be allowed to go bankrupt without a federal bailout, and Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker, for suggesting that some poor people did not have strong work habits. 
But Mr. Biden also provided campaign fodder to the Republican Party, seemingly offering a new standard by which the voters should judge the Obama administration.
The vice president said that he and Mr. Obama had discussed a test for "whether we brought the economy back."
"It's us changing the economic environment so that ordinary people can turn and look at their kid and say, 'Honey, it's going to be O.K.,' " he said.
He added, "People are tired of being tired."
The vice president's appearance, to be followed by one by Mr. Obama on Friday afternoon, capped a three-day retreat aimed at rallying Democrats. The party has found the political environment turning modestly in its favor: A slowly improving economy has raised Mr. Obama's approval ratings, and a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that 47 percent of registered voters favor Democratic control of Congress and 41 percent want Republicans in control.
Mr. Biden acknowledged that tensions simmered last year when House Democrats met at the same resort on the Chesapeake Bay after their drubbing in the 2010 elections. He said that Representative Nancy Pelosi, now the House minority leader, gave him a message: "'Get tough with these guys. Enough is enough.'
"The message was heard, folks. The message was heard," he told cheering Democrats. "And I think we have delivered on that message."
Like his potential Republican opponents, Mr. Biden framed the coming election as a stark choice between differing visions of governance. But he said Republican promises to return the country to a more unfettered, market-oriented economy - with minimal government help for ailing industries, struggling homeowners and families unable to afford college - would rebound to the Democrats' favor.
"I think that's not just political theater or tactic. I really think they believe it," Mr. Biden said, adding: "I know where it ends. It ends Jan. 20 of next year when Barack and I are standing once again with a majority in Congress."
That got him a standing ovation.

        
Gingrich Winning the Crowd Race in Florida
        
Debates Aren't to Blame for Perry's Failure
        
In Florida, Obama Announces New Tourism Policies
        
Perry Ends Bid for Presidency
        
Time Running Out for Romney's Rivals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (55%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (55%) 2012; biden; house democrats; Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Congress; Elections; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (95%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Biden, Joseph R Jr; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1242 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Mitt and Newt Hate Fannie and Freddie

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Listening to Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney at Thursday's debate, you'd be excused for thinking that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac caused the housing crisis. But they didn't. 

 BODY:
Which candidate is guiltier-by-association with the two obviously evil government mortgage companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac? Settling this question made for gripping theater at Thursday night's debate. 
Mitt Romney to Newt Gingrich: You actually for Freddie Mac! What an "enormous mistake."
Newt Gingrich to Mitt Romney: Yeah, well you actually own in both Fannie and Freddie, and made a million dollars selling it. That's shocking!
Mitt Romney to Newt Gingrich: No, I don't! But so do you, and you're worse!
They went on in this childish way for a while, and the average viewer, confused about the enormously complicated reasons for the housing crisis, might have accepted the underlying assumption that Fannie and Freddie caused it.

But the entire bout was based on a false premise. Fannie and Freddie were not the cause of the housing crisis, and at best contributed only slightly to the raft of foreclosures that has savaged the economies of Florida and other states.
That was made clear in the report last year from the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which found that Fannie and Freddie participated in risky mortgages only by following rather than leading Wall Street and other lenders.
"We conclude that these two entities contributed to the crisis, but were not a primary cause," the commission wrote. And it said the two agencies' bonds - which Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich were accusing each other of owning through mutual funds - "did not contribute to the significant financial firm losses that were central to the financial crisis."
Republicans would love for voters to believe that the government, through the dark arts practiced by Fannie and Freddie, brought on the crisis by encouraging irresponsible people to buy houses. This is just an effort to distract from the real perpetrators: the banks and lenders that dreamed up and pushed subprime loans, and the Wall Street firms that packaged them into toxic securities.
If the presidential candidates were serious and not feigning outrage about Florida's foreclosures, they would acknowledge what really happened. But that would require admitting that the Dodd-Frank law to reduce private-sector abuses is potentially useful, and that President Obama and the Democrats took an important step in passing it.
That, of course, can never be uttered on a Republican debate stage, where the names of Dodd and Frank must be spat out if mentioned at all. Instead, it's much more effective to pretend that a tiny sliver of an opponent's investment portfolio disqualifies him from the presidency.

        
Without a Ravenous Crowd, Gingrich Stumbles in the First Florida Debate
        
Romney's New Target: Gingrich's Job Creation Claims
        
The South Carolina Debate and G.O.P. Golden Oldies
        
Newt Gingrich Confronts His Super PAC
        
The Faux Insurgent Versus the Faux Conservative

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (71%); BONDS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); JOB CREATION (50%) Debates (Political); financial regulation; Mitt Romney; mortgage crisis; Newt Gingrich; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae|FNMA|OTCBB

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae

TICKER: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae; FNMA; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1243 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: When Is a Debt Not a Debt? When Republicans Need a Propaganda Tool

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Yesterday, with little hoopla, Washington raised the debt limit again. 

 BODY:
In his State of the Union address the other day, President Obama made a powerful point about the political nonsense that has been consuming Washington. "The greatest blow to confidence in our economy last year didn't come from events beyond our control," he said. "It came from a debate in Washington over whether the United States would pay its bills."
Debate is a polite word. Mr. Obama was referring to the circus the Republicans created last summer when they tied a request to raise the ceiling on the national debt to a raft of draconian spending cuts. Remember what fun that was?
Yesterday, with far less hoopla, Washington raised the limit yet again, by $1.2 trillion to a total of more than $16 trillion. They accomplished this in a truly convoluted way: By voting down a "resolution of disapproval" that would have blocked the increase. Only one Republican, Scott Brown of Massachusetts, had the integrity to vote against the resolution. (Four Republicans did not vote.) And only two Democrats crossed the aisle, Joe Manchin and Ben Nelson.

The resolution was a gimmick, which no one thought would pass. The idea was to force Democrats to back yet another increase publicly, which would then allow their opponents in the 2012 election to call them spendthrifts in nasty campaign ads. I can only hope that voters are too smart for this.
Anyone who's ever paid attention to the reality of government, rather than the Republicans' fantasies, knows that the debt ceiling is a statutory limit on how much the government can owe at any particular time. Congress requires the president to ask for permission to raise the debt ceiling. Presidents of both parties have routinely done so, and Mr. Obama did last year because he had to.
But his implacable opponents in Congress ignored that fact. Actually, they went further, they deliberately muddled the difference between the debt ceiling and the federal budget deficit by claiming that Mr. Obama wanted the increase to pay for his "socialist" spending programs.
Mitt Romney sometimes appears at his campaign rallies with a "debt" clock on the stage, showing how much the government owes, and accuses Mr. Obama of being responsible for that. I can only hope that voters are too smart for this.

        
New and Unpopular

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%) Congressional Gridlock; debt ceiling; national debt; National Debt (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); BEN NELSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1244 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Santorum's Attacks on Romney Health Plan Could Help Democrats

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: If Democrats wants a step-by-step instruction manual for how they might try to neutralize Mitt Romney on the health care issue, they might want to watch Rick Santorum's coldly efficient critique. 

 BODY:
If Democrats wants a step-by-step instruction manual for how they might try to neutralize Mitt Romney on the issue of health care, they might want to grab a transcript of Thursday's debate.
There, they will find Rick Santorum's coldly efficient critique of Mr. Romney's health care plan in Massachusetts, in which he describes how little difference he sees between that plan and the one President Obama pushed through Congress in early 2010.
It has become Mr. Santorum's signature attack on Mr. Romney -- a dissection of the former governor's health care plan (he calls it "Romneycare"). And it's perfect fodder for Democratic opposition research operatives who are already assembling a dossier on Mr. Romney.
Step 1, from Mr. Santorum: Describe Mr. Romney's health care plan as a "government-run, top-down" system of medicine.
Step 2: Note that "everybody is mandated as a condition of breathing in Massachusetts to be able to buy health insurance and if you don't, you have to pay a fine." 
Step 3: Point out that both plans include a pre-existing condition clause for those who change jobs or switch insurance.
Step 4: Reiterate that "Your mandate is no different than Barack Obama's mandate. It is the same mandate."
Step 5. Finally, insist that "the same fines that you put in place in Massachusetts are fines that he puts in place in the federal level. Same program."
President Obama and Democrats will obviously frame the argument differently, since they support Mr. Obama's health care plan, while Mr. Santorum opposes it. But the longer Mr. Santorum stays in the Republican presidential contest, the harder he makes it for Mr. Romney to campaign on the issue in the fall.
You can almost hear Mr. Obama saying during a debate with Mr. Romney that "even Rick Santorum said your plan and mine were almost the same."
Mr. Santorum seems unconcerned by that possibility. 
Despite dropping to the bottom of the pack in recent polls, Mr. Santorum shows no signs of quitting the presidential contest. And while Newt Gingrich is the one engaged in high-profile political combat with Mr. Romney, it is Mr. Santorum who is often the more effective critic.
"Folks, we can't give this issue away in this election. It is about fundamental freedom, whether the United States government or even a state government," Mr. Santorum said during the debate on Thursday.
Part of the strength of Mr. Santorum's argument is his use of statistics from Mr. Romney's own state.
"What's happening in Massachusetts," Mr. Santorum said, "is that the people that Governor Romney has said he wanted to go after, the people that were free-riding, free ridership has gone up fivefold in Massachusetts, five times the rate it was before."
Mr. Romney was ready with his response -- that 98 percent of the people in his state have insurance. And he quickly pivoted to his standard line about Mr. Obama's health care plan: he doesn't like it.
"If I'm president of the United States, I will stop it. And in debating Barack Obama, I will be able to show that I have passionate concern for the people in this country that need health care," Mr. Romney said. "I will be able to point out that what he did was wrong, it was bad medicine, it's bad for the economy, and I will repeal it."
That's likely to be Mr. Romney's message to voters during a general election campaign if he becomes the Republican nominee.
But in the meantime, Democrats are paying close attention to what Mr. Santorum has to say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Massachusetts; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1245 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Technology and Philanthropy Merge at Davos

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Saying there are a lot of rich people at the World Economic Forum is like noting that there is a lot of water in the ocean. And where there are millionaires and billionaires, there is also talk of philanthropy. Mobile payments and micro-giving were two of the main themes discussed during a panel on e-philanthropy at Davos. 

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland - Saying there are a lot of rich people in attendance at the World Economic Forum is like noting that there is a lot of water in the ocean. So where there are millionaires and billionaires, there is also talk of philanthropy.
Technology was the central theme during a philanthropic roundtable, aptly called "e-philanthropy," that was hosted by the Victor Pinchuk Foundation here on Friday.
The panel began with a discussion of mobile payments and the role they can play in enabling people to give small amounts of money to causes. This was almost impossible in the days of paper checks, envelopes and stamps.
Alec Ross, a senior adviser on innovation to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, discussed a program the government developed after the Haiti earthquake in 2010. Mr. Ross said the State Department put together a mobile initiative that allowed people to send a text message with the word "Haiti" to a phone number, donating $10 to relief efforts.
"We thought we would raise a couple of hundred thousand dollars," Mr. Ross said. But instead, the program pulled in $35 million in two weeks. Chelsea Clinton, a special correspondent at NBC and the daughter of former President Bill Clinton, said 50 percent of American households had donated to the Haiti program through mobile phones.
The panelists all agreed that one of the problems with philanthropy and nonprofit groups was the public's lack of understanding of where the money people gave was being used.
Sean Parker, a founder of Napster and former president of Facebook, cited Charity Water, a nonprofit group that focuses on the need for clean drinking water around the world. He said Charity Water had created online tools that could show people where their donation was being used. Every dollar is digitally accounted for through the nonprofit, Mr. Parker said. Mr. Parker has helped finance Charity Water.
Nonprofits and philanthropies have "to adapt to this new paradigm, they need to create this feedback loop between the giver and the fund," Mr. Parker said.
Eric E. Schmidt, chairman of Google, said technology and social media allowed people to "tie the fund-raising to the outcome." People can log in, make a donation and then see the result of that donation, he said.
Mr. Schmidt concluded: "We don't need much regulation aside from shame."

        
AT&T in $6.7 Billion Loss on Failure of T-Mobile Deal
        
A Low-Priced Rival Pushes to Take Over France's Mobile Phone Market
        
Lax Security Exposes Voice Mail to Hacking, Study Says
        
One on One: Gary Shteyngart, Author of 'Super Sad True Love Story'
        
Sean Parker Struggles With Fame

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); FUNDRAISING (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (65%); WRITERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Alec Ross; Chelsea Clinton; Eric Schmidt; mobile; Philanthropy; Sean Parker; Yuri Milner; Clinton, Bill; Clinton, Chelsea; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Parker, Sean; Ross, Alec; Schmidt, Eric E; Economic Conditions and Trends; Text Messaging; Facebook Inc; Google Inc; State Department; World Economic Forum; Davos (Switzerland); Switzerland; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Data; Internet; Mobile; Social

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%) Facebook Inc; Google Inc; State Department; World Economic Forum

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (90%); BILL CLINTON (76%) Clinton, Bill; Clinton, Chelsea; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Parker, Sean; Ross, Alec; Schmidt, Eric E

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (93%) HAITI (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%) Davos (Switzerland); Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



1246 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Attempting to Answer the Arab Question

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Where to look for answers to questions posed by the upheaval in the Arab world, when even the locals disagree? Just over one year into the Arab Spring, Rendezvous provides a modest starter pack of recommendations to some of the better sources on the web. 

 BODY:
PARIS - Raised, if respectful voices at a private dinner party in Paris on Thursday. Among the guests - two Syrians, both anti-regime but with diametrically opposite analyses of what is going on in their home country.
"We're in the last quarter of an hour," said the first guest, a very recent exile from Damascus, predicting the imminent demise of President Bashar al-Assad's regime.
"There was a chance in August," countered his companion, who left his country more than 30 years ago. "Now it's all over. The opposition has no leadership. If there were elections tomorrow, Assad would be voted back in." 
If, after more than a year into the Arab Spring, even the locals have such widely different interpretations of events in their region, what hope is there for the rest of us? 
Perhaps our Syrian friends are too close to the issue. The upheaval in the Arab world would not be the first such event in which views were colored by a combination of ideology, wishful thinking and misinformation.
Arabs as much as others are vulnerable to a plethora of conflicting accounts and rumors from within closed and disoriented societies, and the Internet now serves as a megaphone that can increase the volume of both informative and misleading voices.
But there are analysts, both in the Arab world and outside it, with a solid grounding in the region who try to act as a compass on the path to a better understanding of events.
Below is a far from comprehensive list, rather a tentative starter pack to which we hope you will add your own recommendations.
A good starting point for commentary, news and links is The Arabist, a website on Arab politics and culture established by freelance journalists in 2003.
Solid on-the ground analysis is available from theInternational Crisis Group, a non-profit group dedicated to the resolution of conflicts. ICG has professional analysts based in the Middle East. Peter Harling, its project director for Iraq, Lebanon and Syria,wrote in Foreign Policy this week about how all sides involved in the unrest in Syria have a role in averting a slide towards civil war. 
Another source of reliable mainstream commentary is the venerable London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies. Look out for an IISS lecture on Monday by Shahid Javed Burki, a former finance minister of Pakistan and World Bank vice-president, who will analyze the Arab world's place in the global economy.
For a lively and challenging take on events in the region, there is a regular blog by Hussein Ibish, Senior Research Fellow at the Washington-based American Task Force on Palestine and a tireless Tweeter.
Brace yourselves for this headline. Ready? Okay: In Bahrain, Worries Grow of Violent Shiite-Sunni Confrontation - 2vp.az.sl.pt
- Hussein Ibish (@Ibishblog) January 26, 2012
In a recent post, he explained the jockeying for power among the emerging power centers in Egypt.
Two commentators whose articles are worth regular Googling are Ezzedine Choukri Fishere, an Egyptian novelist and former diplomat, and Olivier Roy, a French expert on political Islam.
Dr. Choukri Fishere, who served as a diplomat for both Egypt and the United Nations, wrote a vivid, personal account for the Financial Times of the birth of the Egyptian revolution, which coincided with his wife going into labor.
Professor Roy is a professor of social and political theory at the European University Institute in Florence and has written reference works on political Islam. 
In the latest edition of Britain's New Statesman,he writes: "The truth is that we are in the middle of a long-term process, in which changes in Arab society and the evolution of religion - what I and others have called 'post-Islamism' - struggle to find expression in a political arena still dominated by actors from the old world."
Among think-tanks worth bookmarking is a U.S. heavyweight, The Brookings Institution. Brookings offers user-friendly access (including an iPad app) to commentary on a wide-range of foreign policy issues, including the Middle East.
Rendezvous has asked members of the Middle East Experts group on LinkedIn to come up with their own reading list of favorites. Members include Juan Cole, professor of history at the University of Michigan, who blogs extensively on the Arab world. 
If you are a LinkedIn member with an interest in the region, head to the group for further suggestions. And please add a comment below if you have recommendations of your own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (62%); WRITERS (62%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%) Assad, Bashar Al-; Cole, Juan; Ibish, Hussein; Roy, Olivier; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Brookings Institution; Foreign Policy (Magazine); International Crisis Group; International Institute for Strategic Studies; Egypt; Middle East; Syria; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (84%) Brookings Institution; Foreign Policy (Magazine); International Crisis Group; International Institute for Strategic Studies

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%) Assad, Bashar Al-; Cole, Juan; Ibish, Hussein; Roy, Olivier

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) SYRIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); FRANCE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Egypt; Middle East; Syria

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1247 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: How to Manage U.S. Forests, Version 3.1

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack sets out the Obama Administration's new blueprint for management of 193 million acres of national forests, emphasizing collaborative development of forest plans and protection of wildlife and watersheds. 

 BODY:
In the high-tech world, new versions of programs are released to fix new bugs. In the federal regulatory world, new versions of management blueprints are released to address legal problems. Each is generally judged by a simple metric: did the fixes work, or will they have to be redone?
By that standard, efforts to update a land management planning rule for the National Forest System have not exactly been a success. 
The Bush Administration's attempt to overhaul it was rejected by a federal judge who said it did not provide adequate safeguards for flora and fauna. When the Obama administration unveiled its first attempt at adjusting the rule 11 months ago, environmentalists criticized it as weak in terms of protecting water purity and biodiversity. So on Thursday, the administration released "a new version.
The rule, a broad blueprint to be followed by individual forest supervisors -- many of whom are working with 15-year-old planning documents at the moment -- is likely to become final within five weeks.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, who is in charge of the Forest Service, struck a conciliatory note in a conference call Thursday, saying that wide public participation will be crucial to the success of future forest management. He said that the revised rules focused on restoring the ecological health of forests and watersheds, particularly conserving and improving the quality of freshwater in the forests. 
Noting that 20 percent of Americans drink water that comes from national forests, Mr. Vilsack said that management of the watersheds would be based on the "best available science."

He and the chief of the Forest Service, Tom Tidwell, also emphasized a desire to ensure that the forests are open to all uses, including timber harvesting and recreation.. With the new rule and a greater emphasis on cooperative planning with various interest groups, Mr. Tidwell said, plans governing individual forest plants could be written twice as fast -- in three or four years, as opposed to the current five, six or seven.
Forest policy is a difficult arena. It's not just that the forests face natural challenges like invasive beetles or fierce wildfires, challenges exacerbated by climate change. Managing the forests can pit timber harvesters against environmentalists in clashes like the drawn-out one over the northern spotted owl two decades ago.
The point that Mr. Vilsack repeatedly made echoed a line from President Obama's State of the Union address. He said he wanted a forest-based economy "built to last."
The Natural Resources Defense Council and Earthjustice offered guarded praise for the Forest Service's intentions. "It's a smart bunch of public-minded people" at work, said Niel Lawrence, a forest expert at the N.R.D.C., and they "are trying to produce a durable rule that will work.They get high marks for their vision of protection and restoration of federal forests." 
Then came the big "but." The rule contains a small change in wording that he said would weaken a former requirement on keeping widely distributed populations of local plants and animals in a forest. "These rules are set up to allow the agency actively to squeeze wildlife out," he said. "That's a recipe for a wildlife zoo, not a healthy ecosystem." He called the language "a loophole that threatens to undo all their good work."
Kristen Boyles of Earthjustice took a similar tone: some great ideas here, but problems remain. Her concern was that the section on protecting animals gave too much flexibility to forest managers.
Tom Partin, president of the American Forest Resource Council, a timber industry group, said in a statement: "We hope that ecological, social and economic objectives are given equal weight in planning so that all of the needs of our citizens will be met by our federal forests."

        
On Our Radar: Vatican Panel Calls for Climate Change Action
        
Ruling Favors the Pint-Size Pika
        
Racing Up (and Down) the Performance Index
        
Animation Charts Modern Global Warming
        
Wasting the Wastewater

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (92%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); ANIMALS (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%) American Forest Resource Council; climate change; earthjustice; forest management; National Resources Defense Council; Tom Tidwell; Tom Vilsak; United States Forest Service; forests

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); EARTHJUSTICE (59%); NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM (57%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (90%); BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1248 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $14 Million

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: A duplex at the Chatham is sold by Jeff T. Blau, the president of the Related Companies, the condo's developer. 

 BODY:
A duplex penthouse at 181 East 65th Street that sold for $14 million was the biggest sale of the week, according to public records.
The condominium at the 34-story Chatham was owned by and had been designed for Jeff T. Blau, the president of the Related Companies, one of the city's largest developers.
The Chatham was designed by Robert A. M. Stern, and like many of his projects across the city, including Superior Ink in the West Village and 15 Central Park West, it is meant to recall the elegant architecture of an earlier generation and appeal to the city's wealthiest denizens. The building opened in 2000.
The two-bedroom, three-bath penthouse has two terraces, 22-foot-high ceilings, a wet bar and a library. It is set apart from other luxurious properties by the 23-foot-tall wall of windows in the dining room, which offer, according to the listing, "breathtaking views of Central Park and all points east and west."
From those lofty heights, it is perhaps not surprising that Mr. Blau overestimated just how much the apartment could bring.
It was first listed last April for $18.9 million with the Corcoran Group. When it did not sell, it was taken off the market and eventually relisted by Cathy Franklin and Alexis Bodenheimer of Brown Harris Stevens for $15.95 million. Despite the cuts, it is still among the most expensive properties ever sold along Third Avenue.
The identity of the buyer was not revealed in public records because the apartment was bought anonymously through a limited liability company.
Mr. Blau moved out of the apartment three years ago, decamping to one of the city's most elite co-ops at 1040 Park Avenue, where he paid $21 million for an 11-room apartment previously owned by the hedge fund titan Scott A. Bommer, according to city records.
Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $19,000,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9.79 million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $15.5 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $19.5 million
        
Big Ticket | Park Ave. Co-op Is Sale of Week

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Big Ticket; real estate; Upper East Side; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Upper East Side (NYC); Housing & Economy

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%) Upper East Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



1249 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: When Safe Bonds Don't Yield Enough to Retire On

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
PLAYING safe with your investments doesn't pay these days.
United States Treasury bonds and other high-grade bonds used to be the safe way for older investors to generate income in their portfolios. But yields on these bonds are now so low, they are not generating much income.
The Federal Reserve's announcement on Wednesday that short-term interest rates would remain close to zero through 2014 confirmed that there was little hope in the near term for much change in bond income.
But it is not easy to find something to replace that income. Other options are not nearly as safe. The wild gyrations in the stock market at the end of last year further unsettled investors who did not need much to remind them of their losses from 2008. 
''We think the search for yield will continue for a few structural reasons,'' Barbara M. Reinhard, chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse's private bank, said.
The first, she said, is low interest rates. But the second reason is what keeps many retirees awake at night. ''You have this aging population in the U.S. saying: 'I need to supplement my retirement through income generation. My life expectancy is long. I retired at 65, but I could live another 18, 20 years,' '' Ms. Reinhard said.
So what can investors, particularly those nearing or in retirement, do to guarantee a big enough and regular stream of income? Here is a look at three variations.
LESS RISK It may seem obvious, but low risk means lower return. Tom McNulty in Scottsdale, Ariz., who worked in the automobile and mortgage businesses before retiring six years ago, found an adviser who practiced a variation on this theme.
Mr. McNulty said he depended on income from his portfolio for about 70 percent of the living expenses for him and his wife, Peggy. His adviser keeps four years of expenses in safe but low-yielding bonds, leaving the rest of the portfolio to grow.
''It wasn't just providing us the income but protecting the asset base we did have,'' Mr. McNulty said. ''We hope to live another 20 or 30 years. We learned that 70-30 in stocks and bonds in the accumulation phase and reversing it in the distribution phase is just not going to work.''
Jeremy A. Kisner, president of Sure-Vest Capital Management, which works with Mr. McNulty, said his firm wanted clients to feel as if they had a pension even if they did not. ''What we've found is that retirees who have a pension sleep really well at night and they're happy,'' he said. ''The clients who don't have that worry about running out of money, no matter how much money they have. We try to create a pension for them.''
Mr. Kisner said his firm settled on putting aside four years of income for two reasons: If the growth part of the portfolio has a down year, money will not have to be moved into the safe assets, and the firm found that five years of safe money was too much, given the need to increase the rest of the portfolio through retirement.
''The strategy of 'I'm just going to live off this interest' was never the right strategy,'' Mr. Kisner said. ''This low-interest environment has laid that bare.''
MORE INCOME Henry Fleischer, a retired engineer who lives outside Detroit, has opted for a strategy that will provide more income now, require him to dip less into the principal of his retirement account and still have little exposure to equities.
His sizable nest egg is divided among investments in three income-producing assets: real estate investment trusts, master limited partnerships -- most commonly companies involved in the transportation of natural resources -- and annuities.
''We don't need to be superaggressive,'' said David B. White, his adviser, who runs David B. White Financial. ''We don't want the volatility of the stock market.''
Last year, REITs had yields of 4.5 percent, according to the FTSE Nareit index, and master limited partnerships had 5.6 percent yields, according to the Alerian MLP index. But neither is risk-free. Another downturn and collapse in the rental market could hurt REITs, and master limited partnerships can be volatile; they fell as much as the equity markets in 2008.
What is telling about these nervous times is that Mr. Fleischer should not have to worry. He is 89, and while he wants to make sure his wife has enough money if he dies first, he is less concerned about his two sons, who are successful and self-sufficient. Still, his portfolio lets him sleep well.
''When times are good, I kind of feel badly about it,'' because he feels he isn't participating in the rising market, Mr. Fleischer said. ''When there are downturns, I'm very pleased. I make sure that greed doesn't overtake me.''
A BALANCE Simon R. C. Wadsworth, 64, made his money in the real estate business. He retired in 2009 as the chief financial officer of MAA, a REIT focused on apartments.
While Mr. Wadsworth, who lives in Memphis, has much of his wealth still tied up in real estate, he says he thinks preferred REIT stocks, a niche among REITs, are a good source of income in retirement. On average, the preferred stocks yield about 7 percent, against 3 percent for regular REIT stocks.
But dividends are fixed for preferred REIT shares. So if inflation goes up, the payment stays the same. And REITs can buy back the preferred shares after five years, usually because they can sell new ones with lower yields.
Yet Mr. Wadsworth said preferred shares account for only about 7 percent of his income-generating portfolio. That is not because of the risks associated with them. Rather, he said, ''you shouldn't put all your eggs in one basket.''
His view could become the prevailing one in an era without pensions and guarantees of income. Just as assets need to be allocated when people are looking to accumulate wealth, they need to be spread out as people spend the money they made in their working lives.
Karen H. Wimbish, director of the retail retirement group at Wells Fargo Advisors, said people nearing or in retirement should think of their money as coming from three distinct sources: guaranteed income, stable income and what can be left to grow over time. Right now, all three sources might understandably leave people feeling unsettled.
She said there were fewer sources of guaranteed income -- pensions, Social Security and annuities are three -- and anything with stable income, like bonds, has low returns.
Still, she noted, interest rates cannot stay this low forever, so it will be important for retirees to be more flexible in the future. When the economy picks up, they will have to rethink how their retirement assets are allocated.
Keeping people patient until then could be tough, though. Joel Isaacson, founder of an investment firm of the same name, said investors too often look to buy something just because it has a high yield, without understanding the risks.
''One of the things in this type of market is, people get desperate,'' said Mr. Isaacson, whose firm handles $4 billion in investments. ''This is where you see a lot of elder fraud, where people look for 'too good to be true.' ''
He said there was no silver bullet to replace the high-yielding bonds of the past, unless you count Apple stock.
''If you look at the news today, the only thing you should really do is buy Apple stock,'' Mr. Isaacson said after the company reported record quarterly earnings this week. Alas, Apple doesn't pay a dividend.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom and Peggy McNulty, retired in Scottsdale, Ariz., keep four years of expenses in safe, low-yielding bonds and seek growth for their other savings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY CRASE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AGING (72%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (72%); AGING TRENDS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1250 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: The Bottleneck

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Delays are a fact of life at New York's three main airports.
Each day, thousands of passengers are stuck on planes at the airports -- Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International -- sitting in line behind a dozen other planes waiting to take off or circling overhead until they get clearance to land.
And the delays persist, despite changes in procedures and schedules by the airlines, airports and Federal Aviation Administration over the years. (In the latest move, the F.A.A. last fall created new flight paths out of Kennedy to speed up departures.) Even a significant drop in the number of flights since the economy slowed has not helped much. Flight delays last year in New York were as bad as they were five years ago.
In the first half of 2011, the region's airspace -- defined as the big three airports, plus Teterboro Airport in New Jersey, which caters to corporate jets, and Philadelphia International Airport -- handled 12 percent of all domestic flights but accounted for nearly half of all delays in the nation. In the same period in 2005, they represented just a third of all delays, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office. 
These delays ripple across the country. A third of all delays around the nation each year are caused, in some way, by the New York airports, according to the F.A.A. Or, as Paul McGraw, an operations expert with Airlines for America, the industry trade group, put it, ''When New York sneezes, the rest of the national airspace catches a cold.''
Delays come from a variety of causes, including mechanical problems with planes, late crews, missing passengers or misplaced bags. In many cases -- though the exact share is impossible to estimate precisely -- weather plays a big role. Snow or fog can ground planes for hours in the winter, while summer storms frequently send airline schedules into disarray.
According to the Department of Transportation, a flight is considered on time if it leaves or arrives at its gate within 15 minutes of its schedule. But even that statistic can be misleading. To minimize late arrivals, airlines have long padded their schedules, counting flight times as longer than necessary. One study, by the Senate Joint Economic Committee, concluded that huge delays in 2007, which affected 320 million passengers, cost the economy $41 billion that year. That figure includes losses to the airlines, wasted time for passengers and the overall cost to the economy.
The New York area airports, of course, are not the only ones that suffer from chronic delays, but they are consistently ranked among the worst in the nation. According to the report by the G.A.O., 80 percent of all delayed flights late in 2009 happened at just seven airports -- La Guardia, Kennedy, Newark, San Francisco, Atlanta, Philadelphia and O'Hare in Chicago.
At Kennedy, a quarter of all flights did not leave on time in the first 10 months of 2011, the latest period of data available, with delays averaging 67 minutes. That is up from 58 minutes in 2006. Similarly, in Newark, more than a quarter of all flights did not leave on time, and just 66 percent arrived on time, according to data from the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. That was the worst performance of all the major airports in the nation last year.
The region's challenges are unique and daunting for air traffic managers. There are four airports within a 30-mile radius, heavy traffic and little room to build a new runway anywhere convenient. Complicating matters further, such proximity means that what happens at one airport has an effect on the operations of the other airports.
A change of winds at Kennedy, for instance, can affect what runway is used at La Guardia so that planes heading into either airport do not cross paths. In turn, that can affect how traffic is directed into Newark Liberty and Teterboro.
''You have to think about it as one giant airport,'' said Robert Maruster, the chief operating officer of JetBlue Airways, one of the top operators at Kennedy Airport.
To address this chronic problem, which goes back decades, the F.A.A. has set up a system of quotas, called slots, at the New York airports that effectively limit airlines from scheduling more flights than airports can handle -- a cause of widespread delays in previous years. As part of a decade-long redesign of the region's airspace, the F.A.A. is also seeking to smooth traffic flows among the airports so that flights landing at Kennedy do not restrict departures at La Guardia. Last October, it introduced a new takeoff route out of Kennedy -- which it calls the ''J.F.K. wrap'' -- that takes planes headed west on a northern loop over Nassau and Westchester Counties before sending them onto the traditional highways in the sky that guide planes to cities like San Francisco or Denver.
The wrap, which avoids more congested airspace south of the airport, is meant to get flights out of the Kennedy airspace faster and reduce delays in the process. Airlines, however, are unenthusiastic because the route forces them on a slightly longer flight, which raises their fuel bill.
''Managing air traffic in and around New York is challenging because so many aircraft want to fly there and the airports are so close together,'' David Grizzle, the F.A.A.'s air traffic chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Improvements have also been made on the ground. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the New York airports, recently expanded one of Kennedy's four runways and added more taxiways so that airplanes can get on and off the runways faster.
It also set up a program that provides departing airplanes a more precise time frame to leave their gate so they can reduce their time on the taxiways, and cut delays before takeoff.
But after all that has been done to reduce delays, the biggest drop has been because of the airlines' reductions in the number of scheduled flights since 2007. They have also switched from frequent flights with smaller planes to fewer flights on larger ones. Last year, 81 percent of the domestic flights departed on time, according to the Department of Transportation.
Some airports are building more runways to increase takeoff and landing capacity. In recent years, new runways have been built in Seattle, Charlotte, Chicago and at Dulles International in Washington. Philadelphia has planned an expansion that would add a fifth runway. That plan, however, is being challenged by US Airways, the airport's biggest operator, which fears its investment in the project would be too high.
Chicago once had the worst airspace in the country. But after O'Hare completed a 3,000-foot extension of its busiest runway in 2008, the airport experienced the largest drop in delayed flights among the nation's top airports. The new runway enabled O'Hare to accommodate 9 percent more flights than the previous summer, which meant 16 more hourly arrivals in optimal weather. In poor weather -- the litmus test for any airport -- O'Hare can land 84 planes an hour, compared with the 68 to 72 before the new runway.
On-time departures from O'Hare jumped to 77 percent in 2010 from 68 percent in 2008. The airport is building another runway, which it plans to complete by the end of 2013. It will be able to accommodate larger planes, and further cut congestion. Even so, the airport still ranks as having among the most delays in the nation.
One measure that could help is increasing the use of more precise navigation tools like GPS to fly more direct routes. Those procedures, part of a wholesale modernization of the nation's airspace over the next decades, will eventually give air traffic controllers a much better picture of where airplanes are flying and allow them to fly closer together. According to the F.A.A., this technology will also allow the system to operate as smoothly in bad weather as in good. In New York, the F.A.A. is about to start testing new arrival and departure routes at both La Guardia and Kennedy that would require airlines to perform more precise landing routes.
''There is a lot of wasted space that has to be factored in because of safety,'' said Susan M. Baer, the director of aviation at the Port Authority.
''Radar is not as precise as GPS. You can be in a cab in Manhattan with GPS and you are dealing with more sophisticated technology than is being used by the F.A.A.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Despite new flight paths out of Kennedy International Airport last year, a quarter of all flights did not leave on time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
To minimize late arrivals, airlines have padded their schedules. Above, a monitor at La Guardia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) MAPS: New Routes May Speed New York Air Traffic: Formerly, the routes of westbound flights departing from Kennedy Airport in New York cut directly across the paths of major westbound routes leaving other New York-area airports.
 Since October, westbound flights from Kennedy have used new routes that swing north of the city and then join the flow of the other major westbound routes. The new routes enable planes to integrate more efficiently with other westbound traffic and are aimed at reducing delays on many flights. (Source: Federal Aviation Administration) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); RANKINGS (60%)

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1251 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Increased In January

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Americans showed greater optimism about potential improvements in the job market in January, pushing consumer confidence to its highest level in nearly a year, a survey released on Friday reported. 
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan's final reading on the overall index on consumer sentiment rose to 75.0, from 69.9 the month before. It was the highest level since February 2011.
That was better than the preliminary January reading of 74.0 and topped the median forecast of 74.1 among economists polled by Reuters.
''The recent gains in confidence are now critically dependent on continued gains in employment,'' the survey's director, Richard Curtin, said in a statement. ''As long as modest employment gains are forthcoming, the data suggest real consumer spending will post a gain of 2.1 percent in 2012.''
The index has improved steadily since August, when consumer confidence reached a low point after political wrangling over the debt ceiling in the summer. Despite the five months of gains, the index remains low by historical standards.
The survey's one-year inflation expectation rose to 3.3 percent from 3.1 percent. The five-to-10-year inflation outlook was steady at 2.7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); INFLATION (75%); DEBT CEILING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1252 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: At a Subtler Sundance, One Film Sparkles: A Sales Race for Tortoises, Not Hares

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
PARK CITY, Utah -- ''The buzz means nothing,'' said Robert Redford as his Sundance Film Festival opened in this luxury ski town last week. ''Wait until it's over, and see what sticks.''
That's pretty much the case for any film festival, but it is especially true about Sundance, where every movie, aggressively angling for a distribution deal, arrives with a publicist (or five) in tow. Hotly anticipated pictures fall head first into snowdrifts, and obscure ones surprise and become overnight sensations once audiences (and critics) are let into the theaters.
Still, the disconnect this year between expectations going into Sundance and the results coming out has been particularly pronounced.
The two most high-profile films before the festival -- ''Lay the Favorite,'' directed by Stephen Frears, and Spike Lee's ''Red Hook Summer'' -- both landed with a critical thud and are still looking for buyers. The buzz bubble also quickly popped on the romantic comedy ''Celeste and Jesse Forever,'' starring Rashida Jones and Andy Samberg, with IndieWire.com listing it as an ''overwhelming underwhelm.'' 
''The Queen of Versailles,'' a documentary about a billionaire and his wife that spawned a defamation lawsuit even before it had its premiere, got a looks-like-reality-TV shrug from critics, one of whom called it ''a strange hybrid between 'Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous' and 'Hoarders.' '' ''Bachelorette,'' a mean-girl marriage comedy starring Kirsten Dunst, arrived on a wave of ''Bridesmaids'' comparisons, but some moviegoers found it too, well, mean.
Meanwhile, a movie that caused several buyers to roll their eyes before the festival began -- ''Beasts of the Southern Wild,'' a drama tinged with magical realism, about a 6-year-old named Hushpuppy in bayou country -- became an instant must-see after an early audience gave it a standing ovation, and critics drooled.
Other movies that entered with little heat (''Robot and Frank,'' with Frank Langella, about a retired jewel thief and his mechanized caretaker) or arrived with negative buzz (''The Surrogate,'' with a very naked Helen Hunt as a sex worker), emerged with rosy futures, or at least distribution deals.
Sundance 2012, which culminates on Saturday with its awards presentation, has also sharply defied predictions on the business side, the marketplace where indie distributors like the Weinstein Company shop for films as if they were browsing a cinematic Walmart.
Ahead of the festival, sales agents predicted a flurry of big-money purchases by distributors. That strutting was not just hype: More than 40 movies sold last year, one of the biggest buying binges in Sundance history, and the health of the indie marketplace has since improved, partly because of newly robust video-on-demand revenue. For instance, ''Margin Call,'' starring Kevin Spacey, generated about $4 million from on-demand services in 2011, close to its entire North American box office total.
But it quickly became clear that the mood of buyers was not in alignment with that of sellers. ''There were a lot of good films, but not a lot of great ones,'' said Michael Barker, co-president of Sony Pictures Classics.
The pace of acquisitions was steady if not exactly brisk. Magnolia Pictures paid an undisclosed price for the North American theatrical rights to ''The Queen of Versailles'' less than 24 hours after its premiere. But more typical was ''Lay the Favorite,'' about a stripper turned sports bettor that stars Rebecca Hall, Bruce Willis and Catherine Zeta-Jones. Made at a cost of about $15 million, this comedic drama has yet to land in a shopping cart; its best hope now may be a bidder willing to spend a couple of million dollars, banking on strong on-demand revenue.
In what appears to be the biggest deal of this year's festival, Fox Searchlight paid an estimated $6 million for ''The Surrogate,'' starring Ms. Hunt as a woman who helps a poet with an iron lung (John Hawkes) lose his virginity. More often, filmmakers made do with $2 million to $2.5 million, the estimated prices paid for films like ''Robot and Frank''; ''For a Good Time, Call...,'' a female-driven comedy about phone sex; ''The Words,'' a thriller starring Bradley Cooper; and ''Arbitrage,'' a financial thriller starring Richard Gere.
Last year, by the time the festival closed, the Weinstein Company had paid about $7.5 million (and an additional $10 million advertising guarantee) for ''The Details,'' a dark comedy starring Tobey Maguire, and about $7 million (and a $15 million advertising guarantee) for ''My Idiot Brother,'' a comedy starring Paul Rudd. Sundance's sales record was set in 2006, when Fox Searchlight paid $10.5 million for ''Little Miss Sunshine,'' which took in over $100 million at the global box office.
What happened? Despite the hoopla surrounding Sundance -- publicists sent this reporter 419 unsolicited pitches for articles tied to the festival -- seasoned buyers practiced what Mr. Redford preached and were cautious about overbidding.
Part of the restraint came from a recognition that last year's shopping spree did not deliver results. ''Margin Call'' was an exception, but almost every other movie from the festival fizzled, including ''Martha Marcy May Marlene,'' ''Another Earth'' and ''The Art of Getting By,'' all purchased last year by Fox Searchlight. ''Like Crazy'' bombed at the box office for Paramount; ''My Idiot Brother'' (whose title was changed to ''Our Idiot Brother'' for its release) failed to meet expectations. ''The Details'' hasn't been released yet, although Weinstein is looking at an early summer or midfall date.
And not a single Sundance movie from last year has been a major awards contender.
There is a silver lining here: A slow, low-priced festival may be a good thing for independent film. One reason that the art house sector has gone through such a difficult retrenchment in recent years involves ever-escalating prices; as buyers started to spend more for quirky pictures, they also had to spend more on marketing to assure a bigger audience, and the economics of the business started to implode. It led to the shuttering or downsizing of several distributors.
So the indie crowd may be returning to New York and Los Angeles with a bit of the blues, but it doesn't mean the specialty film market isn't healthy. It could mean just the opposite. As David Glasser, Weinstein's chief operating officer, told Deadline.com going into the festival, ''We'll bid numbers that will allow us to be here five years from now.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the number of films from last year's Sundance Film Festival that were nominated for an Academy Award this year. Three films, including two documentary features, received Oscar nominations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Quvenzhane Wallis plays a mystical 6-year-old in Benh Zeitlin's ''Beasts of the Southern Wild,'' the movie that created the most stir at the Sundance Film Festival, which ends on Saturday.
Helen Hunt and John Hawkes in ''The Surrogate,'' which was bought by Fox Searchlight for an estimated $6 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL) (C1)
Clockwise from above, Frank Langella as a retired jewel thief, with his mechanized caretaker in ''Robot and Frank''
Zoe Saldana and Bradley Cooper in a scene from the thriller ''The Words''
Lauren Miller, far left, and Ari Graynor in the phone-sex comedy ''For a Good Time, Call . . . ''
and Rashida Jones in Lee Toland Krieger's romantic comedy''Celeste and Jesse Forever.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT LLOYD
JONATHAN WENK/CBS FILMS
JAMES LAXTON
DAVID LANZENBERG)
 Emayatzy Corinealdi stars in Ava DuVernay's drama ''Middle of Nowhere.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUNDANCE) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); SKIING (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); LITIGATION (70%); PROSTITUTION (68%); SALES FORCE (60%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1253 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 30 words

HEADLINE: Quotation of the Day

BYLINE: By JAY FELDMAN

 BODY:
All in all it's not bad, but there's no oomph.
JAY FELDMAN,an economist at Credit Suisse, on news of better-than-expected growth in the U.S. economy for the last quarter of 2011. [A1] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1254 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Latin America Looks at West's Fiscal Crises, and Sees Its Own Past

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Sometimes it comes in the form of a news dispatch, like the item from Milan explaining how Italians fret about ''the spread,'' a term used to refer to the gap between their high borrowing costs and the lower interest rates for Germany.
The angst has included protests in Spain, images of rioters in London or the police using pepper spray to disperse demonstrators in California. 
And, of course, there is the steady drip of reports focusing on default fears in Greece.
For many months now, Latin Americans have been monitoring the constant drumbeat of crises in developed countries with bewilderment, irony and, yes, even a bit of schadenfreude. To them, Europe and the United States are displaying problems once associated with their region, which, not long ago, was a perennial champion in financial crises and bailouts.
''The mood on the streets of Paris is depressing, with people clearly worried about the future,'' said Maria Cristina Terra, a Brazilian economist who moved to France four years ago and was back here this month to conduct research. ''It's a shock to all of us who saw Europe as solid and prosperous, but the contrast with Brazil is immense.''
In 2011, Latin America's unemployment rate fell to a 21-year low of 6.8 percent, compared with 8.5 percent in the United States and nearly 10 percent in Europe. While economic growth has slowed in some countries, it is still booming in others. Panama, whose canal is choked to capacity, registered economic growth of 10.5 percent in the first nine months of 2011. Argentina's economy expanded 9.3 percent in the third quarter.
Nowhere is the new mood more evident than in Brazil, which recently passed Britain as the world's sixth-largest economy. Despite some recent economic weakness, Brazil's unemployment rate is at a historic low of 4.7 percent. Veja, a leading newsmagazine, celebrated in a cover story this month the creation of new millionaires at a rate of 19 a day. By some measures, Sao Paulo's financial sector is the envy of Wall Street: The market value of one bank, Itau, now exceeds those of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley combined.
All of this is still hard for some people in Brazil to absorb. But these days, so many increasingly affluent Brazilians are traveling abroad that they see the contrasts with their own eyes.
''I was in Zuccotti Park, and it felt like Latin America, circa 1985,'' said Matias Spektor, a professor at Fundacao Getulio Vargas, a university here, referring to the New York City park that became the site of Occupy Wall Street before the police cleared protesters in November.
''The general climate of dissent, the mistrust toward the upper classes and governing classes -- these aren't things we normally associate with the United States,'' he said.
Brazil, of course, used to be more accustomed to receiving lectures from Washington about its inequalities than seeing Americans take aim at the yawning gap between the rich and the middle class in the United States.
Brazil was so crisis-prone that average people still exhibit extraordinary knowledge about financial markets, like the spreads furrowing brows in Italy. Many here noted with satisfaction that ''Brazil Risk,'' the cost of protecting the country's debt against nonpayment, dipped below that of the United States last year.
Some in Brazil warn against such triumphalism. Brazil still has glaring income inequality, and while it tripled its per capita income over the past decade to about $12,500, some of that increase had to do with its overvalued currency. If history holds any lessons, the prices for the commodities exported by Brazil and other Latin American countries cannot remain so high forever.
But the recent emergence of millions of people from dire poverty, not only in Brazil but also in neighboring countries, is encouraging some in Latin America to hit back at those who used to dispense advice to the region so freely.
Moises Naim recently described how the anxiety he had witnessed on a trip to Brussels reminded him of the early 1990s, when he was the Venezuelan planning minister trying to overcome the kind of economic quagmire that plagued many Latin American countries for much of the 1980s and 1990s.
''Let's hope Europe can handle its crisis as the new Latin America learned to do,'' Mr. Naim said, citing the transformations in Brazil, Chile and Colombia. ''In this sense, a little Latin Americanization of Europe is a desirable thing.''
Not everyone is as enthusiastic about Latin America's prescriptions, including the trade protectionism that still pervades in a number of big economies.
Still, some observers see parallels between the polarization of politics in the United States today and the situation in certain Latin American countries in the 1960s, when the political classes failed to arrive at compromises, allowing one crisis to develop after another.
Patricio Navia, a Chilean political scientist at New York University, said the debt-ceiling debate in Washington showed how ideological battles could lead to a more lasting political tension.
''When you play with fire, you get a fire,'' said.
Views of the developed world's troubles vary widely in the hemisphere, as do conditions from country to country.
While Brazil now flexes its economic muscle, not every neighbor shares its surplus of optimism. For a less starry-eyed impression, consider Argentina, a century ago one of the world's richest countries.
A long series of crises changed that, and Argentina experienced a frightening financial collapse just a decade ago. Since then, thanks partly to soaring commodities prices, economic growth has outstripped even that of neighboring Chile, whose market-friendly policies are often held up as a model.
Citing Argentina's robust recovery after defaulting on its debts, some experts say Argentina provides a hopeful example for Greece and other struggling European countries.
But others say Argentina may provide an even better example of how countries can learn to live with the idea that their best days may be behind them.
''Argentina is the dean of the club of nations utterly obsessed with their decline,'' Gabriel Saez, an Argentine scholar, wrote in an essay on how the United States could ''decline in style'' as Argentina did.
''So it is our distinct pleasure to welcome the United States to our dour fraternity,'' Mr. Saez added, enumerating the advantages of angst-ridden fatalism, at least for booksellers, psychoanalysts and political analysts. ''Go ahead and take your place, there, alongside France.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A subway station in Sao Paulo, Brazil, which has a thriving financial sector. Some analysts see the situation in the West as ''Latin America, circa 1985.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY YASUYOSHI CHIBA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (76%); RIOTS (76%); AUGUST 2011 UK RIOTS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PANAMA (79%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1255 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: How the Public Sees Business Rules

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
AMERICANS are split almost down the middle on the issue of whether there is too much regulation of business or too little. Residents of most other countries are more likely to think more regulation is needed.
But there is widespread agreement around the world on one point: the current level of regulation is not right.
In surveys of 1,000 people in each of 25 countries late last year, Edelman, a public relations firm, asked, ''When it comes to government regulation of business, do you think that your government regulates business too much, not enough or about the right amount? 
In the United States, 31 percent said that there was too much regulation. As can be seen in the accompanying chart, that is a higher proportion than in any other country. But 37 percent of Americans said more regulation was needed.
Regulation is likely to be an issue in this year's presidential election. Republican candidates have asserted that economic growth would increase immediately if the Dodd-Frank law, which was passed in 2010 and increased bank regulation, were repealed. The president has said he sees a lack of regulation before he took office as one cause of the financial crisis. Those views reflect the beliefs of majorities in each party.
''Just like a presidential election, you've got the swing voters as your deciders,'' said Steve Lombardo, the chief executive of the Edelman unit that conducted the surveys. Independents are more closely divided, but more of them think increased regulation is needed than believe there is too much regulation.
In only three of the 25 countries -- Sweden, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates -- are as many as a third of respondents happy with the level of regulation.
Historically, the clamor for more regulation often comes after economic problems that perhaps could have been prevented. That has often made even pro-business politicians more open to imposing new rules. That seems to be happening in Britain, where the government, led by the Conservative Party, is pushing for more regulation of banks and has been critical of high bonuses for bankers. The poll indicates that nearly half of British respondents think there is too little regulation, while fewer than a fifth think there is too much.
In some countries, demands for more regulation may actually be calls for more effective regulation. ''Italy is one of the most heavily bureaucratic countries in the world,'' Mr. Lombardo said. ''They have rules. They just don't follow them.'' In Italy, 56 percent of the respondents called for more regulation. Among the members of the European Union that were surveyed, the figures were higher only in Spain and Ireland, both countries that have experienced sharp recessions that some say were brought on by ineffective bank regulation.
Germany, currently the most successful economy in Europe, ranks second to the United States in the proportion of people who think there is too much regulation, with 28 percent. But that is well below the 44 percent figure for those who want more regulation.
While the Chinese economy has done well, it and Hong Kong, which was treated separately in the survey, are the countries where respondents were least likely to think there was too much regulation, and among the most likely to think more rules were needed.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2012

 CORRECTION:
The Off the Charts column on Saturday, about the way in which citizens of various countries perceive the burden of business regulation, misstated the percentage of Germans who believe more regulation is needed. As an accompanying chart correctly noted, 44 percent want more regulation, not 42 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Much of World Sees Need for More Regulation: Americans are more likely than people in any other country to believe that their government overregulates business, according to a survey of public attitudes in 25 countries around the world, conducted by the public relations firm Edelman. The question asked in October and November of last year was, ''When it comes to government regulation of business, do you think that your government regulates business too much, not enough or the right amount?'' The charts show the percentage of the public in each country who think their government gets it right, and then show the proportion of the remainder who believe there is too much or too little regulation. (Source: Edelman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1256 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Optimism as U.S. Transfers Security Control to Afghans in Jalalabad

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
JALALABAD, Afghanistan -- In the garden of the governor's residence here, a red-coated brass band struck up -- erratically -- the Afghan national anthem, and after some fumbling and delay with the rope, two guards raised the black, red and green of the Afghan flag.
On another pole next to it, the guards then slowly lowered the flag of the United States. Carefully, an Afghan Army officer folded the Stars and Stripes before handing it to Richard G. Olson, an ambassador responsible for development and economic affairs at the American Embassy in Kabul. Mr. Olson had flown in by helicopter and was wearing, precariously, a light-blue silk turban he been given in honor of the occasion. 
That was the transition ceremony on Thursday for the city of Jalalabad and four districts in eastern Afghanistan, the latest transfer of power from NATO forces to Afghan authority.
As in other areas that have transferred authority, American forces will remain in the region to provide support but, from now on, the Afghan Army is to be in charge.
So far, about 20 such ceremonies have taken place across the country, part of the unfolding plan for all NATO combat troops to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014.
The safest regions changed over first, like Bamian and Panjshir, and soon areas with about half the Afghan population will have completed the transition.
But now tougher districts, like some of those in Thursday's ceremony, are transferring to Afghan authority even as questions remain about whether Afghan security forces are ready to go solo.
In this region, for example, which borders Pakistan, the Taliban militants still have power bases in districts within an hour's drive of Jalalabad, and just to the north, in Kunar Province, they have fought pitched battles with American troops as recently as November.
However, these worries did not seem to dull the air of celebration at Thursday's ceremony. ''This is a bright and happy moment,'' said Mohammad Hanif Gardiwal, the deputy governor of Nangarhar Province, of which Jalalabad is the capital.
Earlier in the day, inside a nearby hall with garlands of colored lights and portraits of Afghan heroes, Mr. Gardiwal and other officials had given long speeches and faced questions from the rows of assembled elders in an unusually feisty discussion -- which, visiting Western officials noted hopefully, probably boded well for the nascent democracy.
''There was a little more interaction than usual,'' Mr. Olson said.
One by one, speakers peppered the visiting dignitary from Kabul, Ashraf Ghani, a former finance minister who studied in the United States and worked at the World Bank and who is now in charge of the transition effort, with requests for more money for things like better power supplies and equipment for the police.
''The police do not have the equipment to perform their job properly,'' Mr. Gardiwal told him.
In the air was the unspoken question of how committed the United States and other Western countries are to Afghanistan in the longer term, beyond the troop pullout in 2014. The Afghans have expressed the hope that even after they assume full control of their country, they will be able to rely on coalition military support to keep the Taliban at bay and on continued aid to keep the economy afloat.
''The world promised us that after they drawdown their weapons, they are going to stay with us for at least 10 years,'' Mr. Ghani, in a grand white turban, told the assembled crowd.
When it was his turn, Mr. Olson, who has served in the United Arab Emirates and Iraq, provided reassurance.
''Transition does not signal the end of our commitment to Afghanistan or its security,'' he said.
The first transition ceremonies were highly public affairs, but the more recent ones have attracted less official attention.
Jalalabad was deemed important enough to warrant Mr. Olson's presence at what he said was his fourth such ceremony.
''Jalalabad is one of the five great cities of Afghanistan,'' he said in an interview. ''Jalalabad is a hugely important place.''

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Jalalabad, near Pakistan, is in a more volatile region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (96%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1257 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: For Ford, Three Years Of Profit In a Row

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- The Ford Motor Companyreported its third consecutive full-year profit on Friday and its largest in 13 years, ensuring its hourly workers one of the biggest profit-sharing bonuses in the company's history.
Ford said strong sales in North America overshadowed higher commodity costs and losses in other parts of the world. The North American results mean 41,600 hourly workers in the United States will receive $6,200 in profit-sharing bonuses for 2011, up from $5,000 the year before. 
Ford made an unusual accounting adjustment in the fourth quarter worth $12.4 billion that increased its 2011 earnings to $20.2 billion, the second-highest total ever for the carmaker. But excluding that one-time gain, Ford's fourth-quarter operating profit declined.
The accounting change eliminated most of a tax allowance created when the company was bleeding billions of dollars in 2006 and saw little likelihood of making a profit in the coming years. By making the adjustment, Ford is now signaling that it expects to continue earning substantial profits.
''It's a very positive signal,'' said the company's chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth. ''In our judgment, we're going to be profitable enough in the foreseeable future to use up the deferred assets.''
The hourly workers received a $3,750 advance on the 2011 bonus after signing a new four-year labor agreement last fall and will receive the remaining $2,450 in March. The largest profit-sharing bonus at Ford came for the year 1999, when workers received an average of $8,000.
The accounting gain means that, on paper, Ford has recovered nearly all of the $30.1 billion it lost from 2006 through 2008. In the three years since, the company's profit totaled $29.5 billion.
Ford created the tax allowance in 2006, when Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive, joined the company as its performance was in a downward spiral and it mortgaged most assets to raise money. The losses meant Ford could no longer keep many deferred tax assets on its books, but after posting 11 consecutive profitable quarters, it was able to release nearly all of that allowance.
Doing so lets Ford offset taxes on about $35 billion of future profits, said James Hines, a law and economics professor at the University of Michigan.
''You would only do that if you were expecting a lot of pretax profits,'' Professor Hines said. ''It's not a shock, given how well they've been doing.''
By region, the company earned a pretax operating profit in North America in 2011 of $6.2 billion but lost a total of $119 million in its Europe and Asia-Pacific-Africa regions. Its fourth-quarter loss in Europe nearly quadrupled to $190 million, from $51 million in 2010, and Mr. Booth conceded that Europe ''may stay challenging for some time.''
In contrast, North America, the epicenter of Ford's past troubles, has become ''the engine for supporting our growth worldwide,'' Mr. Mulally said.
The net profit was equal to $4.94 a share, up from $1.66 a share a year earlier, when Ford earned $6.6 billion.
Excluding the accounting change and other special items, Ford earned an operating profit of $8.8 billion for the year, or $1.51 a share, 6 percent more than its 2010 operating profit of $8.3 billion, or $1.91 a share.
Revenue increased 13 percent to $136.3 billion, but profit margins declined to 5.4 percent, from 6.1 percent in 2010.
In the fourth quarter, Ford reported an operating profit of $1.1 billion, or 20 cents a share, down from $1.3 billion, or 30 cents a share, a year ago. Analysts were expecting earnings of 25 cents a share, and consequently, Ford shares fell 4 percent on Friday to close at $12.21.
Including the accounting gain, Ford had net income of $13.6 billion. Revenue for the quarter rose 6 percent to $34.6 billion.
Ford ended 2011 with $13.1 billion in automotive debt, $400 million more than at the end of the third quarter but $6 billion less than it had a year earlier.
It had $22.9 billion in automotive cash, up $2.4 billion for the year.
Mr. Booth said the challenging economy in Europe and flooding in Thailand hurt fourth-quarter earnings. Commodity costs also ended up being higher than expected, he said.
With the auto market in the United States improving, Ford said it expected operating profit to increase in 2012 and for profit margins to be equal to or better than in 2011. The company said it planned to contribute $3.5 billion to its underfunded pension plans, including $2 billion in the United States.
The projections are ''encouraging to us given all the industry headwinds,'' Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to clients Friday. He added, ''2012 may be shaping up to be a very good year for Ford.''
Ford sold 17 percent more cars and trucks at American dealerships in 2011, with big gains for its redesigned Explorer sport utility vehicle and year-old Fiesta subcompact car. This year, it is bringing out revamped versions of the Fusion midsize sedan and Escape crossover vehicle, along with several plug-in vehicles and hybrids.
Mr. Booth said Ford would be able to improve its performance in the years ahead by increasing sales and by operating more efficiently, which is a central focus of its turnaround plan, known as One Ford.
''We're really only at the beginning of getting the benefits of One Ford,'' Mr. Booth said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ford Flex vehicles for sale in Tustin, Calif. The company reported its largest profit in 13 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONUS PAY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1258 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Seized Pirates in High-Seas Legal Limbo, With No Formula for Trials

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

 BODY:
Earlier this month off the coast of Pakistan, 15 Somali pirates held aboard the aircraft carrier John C. Stennis were loaded onto a helicopter and flown to a newly arrived carrier nearby, the Carl Vinson.
The pirates had been captured by yet another American warship on Jan. 5, taken from an Iranian dhow they had used as a high-seas base to attack passing merchant ships. Now the Stennis was departing the North Arabian Sea, and it could not keep its prisoners. Wearing leg irons, they were transferred from floating brig to floating brig.
Behold a seam in international law enforcement, and a case of high-seas legal limbo.
The many navies involved in counterpiracy patrols off Africa's northeastern shore have learned the pirates' habits and sharpened interdiction efforts. Hijackings have declined sharply in the past year. But where interdiction ends, an enduring problem begins: what to do with the pirates that foreign ships detain? 
Vessels from several navies collaborating on counterpiracy are holding a total of 71 captured pirates, according to Vice Adm. Mark I. Fox, commander of the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet. No system has been developed for prosecuting their cases.
''There is not a repeatable international process to bring them to justice,'' Admiral Fox said, in a recent interview in Bahrain. ''We lack a practical and reliable legal finish.''
In previous cases, the Navy has at times resorted to putting captured pirates in life jackets and ferrying them in small boats into the Somali surf, where they hop out and wade to shore. (These releases have been videotaped, sailors said, as evidence that the prisoners were healthy and freed safely.)
No one -- except perhaps the pirates -- has found that outcome satisfying, and the State Department insists that this will no longer be an acceptable resolution. Newly detained pirates, according to a senior State Department official, will face trial.
The many possible permutations for prosecuting the 15 pirates now locked up in the Vinson almost perfectly capture the puzzle surrounding such cases.
The pirates are Somali. They attacked the motor vessel Sunshine, which is Greek-owned but operates under a Bahaman flag. They were detained in international waters, but in the so-called exclusive economic zone of Oman. And they had commandeered an Iranian fishing vessel and held the crew hostage for more than a month.
The Navy took the pirates into custody. But the former hostages returned to Iran, and the Sunshine simply steamed on, over the horizon and out of sight.
So which country should take the case? And how would it hold the pirates before trial, collect evidence, and arrange for foreign witnesses and foreign investigators to testify?
A few nations, including the Seychelles, have entered nonbinding memorandums of understanding that some American officials believe could clear a path for them to hear high-seas piracy cases. But the agreements have not proved robust, available prison systems can be small or strained, and the backlog of captured pirates must await venues.
Discussions about where are under way with several possible countries.
''We're still searching for an appropriate venue for prosecution, but we are committed to bringing these pirates to justice,'' said an assistant secretary of state, Andrew J. Shapiro. He added that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton ''has made clear that she is not happy with the practice of catch and release.''
The pirates' victims have shared that sentiment. Mahmed Younes, captain of the Iranian fishing vessel, was held hostage by the 15 pirates from November to early January. He said it was the second time in recent years that he had been taken captive by Somali pirates in the North Arabian Sea.
''The punishment should be for the crime,'' Captain Younes said, in an interview at sea soon after being freed. ''They should be taken to court and tried. At any cost they should not be let go, because if you let them go they will come back stronger and harass more people.''
He added, ''Every time these navies' countries let them go, the pirates just laugh at that.''
The reasons that cases languish vary from an absence of bureaucratic capacity in countries in the region affected by piracy to concerns about costs. International politics also play a role.
American officials said that in pursuing prosecution for the group of 15 pirates, for example, the United States had asked several countries to consider taking the cases, but not the most obvious venue -- Iran. The tensions between Washington and Tehran have precluded such dialogue.
The legal questions persist even as counterpiracy measures show gains. In recent years, Somali pirates have typically held 15 or 16 vessels at a time, while negotiating ransoms for their release. Early last year they held a high of 32 vessels. But as the vessels have been ransomed, fewer have been captured.
As of this month, pirates hold six ships -- the lowest number in years, Admiral Fox said.
The Navy credited the increased presence of ships from NATO and the European Union, as well as the actions of independent participants, including India.
It also said that merchant vessels were more often sailing with armed security teams. ''No vessel with an on-board security team has been hijacked,'' a State Department official said.
Admiral Fox and Mr. Shapiro agreed that whatever the venue for the current high-profile case, a longer-term solution was necessary.
One proposal is to form a regional legal center that would be able to apply its own laws to the cases, interact with foreign navies, and have the capacity to incarcerate convicted pirates in a prison system and to return others safely to their home nations.
The United States supports such a ''piracy chamber,'' Mr. Shapiro said.
The group of 15 pirates seemed not especially worried by their capture.
One, Mohammed Mahmoud, said they had developed a script for lying to naval patrols -- they were simply fishermen searching for lost, drifting nets -- and that if they were detained they expected to be treated well.
He seemed to think that if he were patient, the Navy would play by rules that were not especially menacing.
''The Navy has a system,'' Mr. Mahmoud said while aboard the Iranian fishing boat, waiting to be transferred to the first American warship. ''They do not shoot everything. Everything is balanced, very balanced.''
An American Navy officer also said that after the pirates had been read their rights, in case any of them ended up in American courts, many had become uncooperative with investigators, apparently expecting that with time they would be let go.
Rear Adm. Kaleem Shaukat, the Pakistani commanding Combined Task Force 151, the region's multinational counterpiracy command, said that without a legal system to match the navies' tactical progress, piracy, and uncertainties about what to do with Somali prisoners on the high seas, would persist.
''If there is no effective legislation that makes sure these pirates are taken to a court of law and punished, if that does not occur, they will come back again and hijack other ships,'' he said. ''That is still a weak area.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earlier this month, captured Somali pirates were transferred from the aircraft carrier John C. Stennis to another ship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOMALI PIRACY (90%); MARITIME PIRACY (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); OCEANS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WITNESSES (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); DRUG INTERDICTION (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TESTIMONY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); BAHRAIN (79%); AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEYCHELLES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1259 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Iran Says It Could Terminate European Oil Sales Next Week

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Escalating retaliatory threats over the West's nuclear sanctions, Iran warned on Friday that it could terminate oil sales to Europe as early as next week, and it bluntly advised Arab oil producers that any attempt by them to replace Iranian exports would be considered unfriendly. 
The threats came as Iranian officials repeated their willingness to re-engage in negotiations with the Western powers over Iran's uranium enrichment program, although the prospects for such a resumption appeared to grow more uncertain. Iran also was preparing to play host this weekend to a team of inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear monitor, which issued an incriminating report about Iran's uranium enrichment program two months ago.
That report elevated Western suspicions that Iran was laying the groundwork to build an atomic weapon despite Iran's repeated assertions that its uranium enrichment program is for peaceful ends.
The European Union decided on Monday to boycott Iranian oil as of July 1, its most aggressive step yet in a series of sanctions, coordinated with the United States, to punish Iran economically over its nuclear program. The delayed start of the boycott was meant, in part, to give European importers time to arrange alternative sources of supply and avoid sudden disruptions in the market that could cause prices to spike.
But Iran's parliament signaled on Thursday that it was considering legislation that would immediately stop oil sales to Europe to retaliate for the planned boycott, and that the European buyers of Iran's oil would suffer mightily if such a measure were passed.
On Friday, a senior Iranian lawmaker, Hossein Ibrahimi, sought to raise the pressure further, telling Iran's Fars News Agency that the legislation would be debated and approved in Parliament on Sunday and ''could halt exports of oil to the European Union as early as next week.''
Another legislator, Moayed Hosseini Sadr, was quoted by Fars as saying that passage of the legislation would make Europe ''understand the power of Iran.''
The Iranians also directed some anger at other Middle East oil producers, notably Saudi Arabia, that have signaled in recent days that they have the ability to compensate for any shortfall in the market because of an absence of oil from Iran, the world's fourth-largest exporter. Hossein Amir-Abdollahian, the Iranian deputy foreign minister for Arab and African affairs, said in remarks reported by the Mehr News Agency ''if any country takes such a decision it will not be regarded by Iran as a friendly move.''
International oil markets appeared to shrug off the news, with benchmark prices changing little.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1260 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Rutgers Is Left to Re-Evaluate Program's Worth

BYLINE: By MARK VIERA

 BODY:
Greg Schiano's decision to leave Rutgers has left Scarlet Knights fans up and down the New Jersey Turnpike with this question: What next?
Over 11 seasons in Piscataway, Schiano helped to transform Rutgers from a punch line to a regular contender in the Big East, racking up victories, attracting top recruits and graduating players with an above-average frequency. Along with that success, the university poured millions of dollars into the program.
Now that Schiano has become the coach of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, perhaps the thorniest issue for Rutgers is whether the university will continue to emphasize the football program, or scale back its on-field ambitions. 
The university's priorities were hotly debated during Schiano's tenure. As the football program acquired a new stadium and improved facilities, financing to other areas of the university was slashed, leaving many faculty members feeling disenfranchised.
''You have money sucked out of academics and huge subsidies going to athletics,'' said Mark Killingsworth, an economics professor. ''You wonder what is this place. Are we a university or what? I don't know if the Board of Governors has an answer for that.''
The most pressing immediate issue for the interim coach Kyle Flood was trying to retain prospects from what looked like a strong recruiting class. With national signing day next Wednesday, some prospects have started rethinking their options. Defensive end Darius Hamilton, a standout at Don Bosco Prep in Ramsey, N.J., planned to visit Miami this weekend.
''Rutgers was on its way to having its best year in 30 years,'' said Tom Lemming, a recruiting analyst for CBS Sports. ''I think some recruits are going to leave now. You've got Michigan, Ohio State and everyone else coming after some of them.''
At the same time, Athletic Director Tim Pernetti is searching for a replacement for Schiano. Possible candidates include Steve Addazio of Temple and Mario Cristobal of Florida International. But hiring a high-profile coach would require a significant amount of money, and it remains to be seen how much Rutgers is willing to spend.
Schiano was paid more than $2 million a year, and The Star-Ledger reported that his contract included numerous incentives, including loans for his homes and university property on which to build a home, in addition to perks like membership to a country club and use of the university's jet. Items like these are commonly included in deals for coaches at major colleges.
Pernetti, Flood and the members of the university's board of governors were not available on Friday afternoon for comment. At a news conference on Thursday, Pernetti discussed hiring a new coach by saying: ''As far as the finances go, that is a variable depending on who the candidates are. I think you have to put more into finding the right person, that stands for the right things, that is going to lead the program the right way. You'll always find a way to make the finances work.''
Statements like these have added to the disillusionment of some faculty members, some of whom have seen their pay frozen or had items like telephones taken from their offices because of budget constraints.
During the 2010 fiscal year, the university's subsidy to the athletic program was $26.9 million, or about 42 percent of the athletic budget. The university's $102 million stadium expansion project, finished in 2009, has not prevented the athletic program from being one of the country's largest money losers, according to an analysis by The Star-Ledger.
''There are some faculty who just think the intercollegiate sports program should quietly fold its tents,'' said Killingsworth, who received his doctorate from Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. ''A milder version of that is that the program should be scaled back, and we should go back to playing the sorts of teams we were playing in the 1970s.''
That was when the football team played programs like Princeton. Rutgers was known for its on-field futility when Schiano arrived in 2001, but since the team's 11-2 season in 2006, the Scarlet Knights have often been among the contenders to win the Big East.
Schiano's teams went 68-67 and made it to six bowl games, including last year's Pinstripe Bowl at Yankee Stadium. He was the driving force behind the expansion of what is now called High Point Solutions Stadium to include 11,412 additional seats.
Despite Schiano's departure, there have been signs that Rutgers does not intend to diminish its ambitions. Last year, the university explored joining the Atlantic Coast Conference, and on Thursday Pernetti said that the Rutgers program was ''priced to move in every way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kyle Flood, above, a Scarlet Knights assistant, will take over on an interim basis for Greg Schiano, who left to coach in the N.F.L. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (97%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1261 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: At a Subtler Sundance, One Film Sparkles: Amazing Child, Typical Grown-Ups

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
PARK CITY, Utah -- Now in its 28th edition, the Sundance Film Festival has eased into a mellower groove, hallelujah and pass the parka. Despite the predictable hazards and hassles, like slip-sliding on black ice and waiting for shuttles in the frigid cold, it no longer is the nightmare it had become back when Paris Hilton and frat types descended. The economic downturn plays a part -- there are fewer self-important industry players crowding the scene -- as does the affable presence of the festival's director, John Cooper, who took over in 2009. 
These remain uncertain times in the independent-film world, as distributors continue to try to seduce ticket buyers away from the mainstream. Both Magnolia Pictures and IFC Films, for instance, now routinely show movies through video on demand before putting them on the big screen. That they continue to use brick-and-mortar theaters indicates that this strategy works for them, though it's difficult to know what it means for the future of cinema. Audiences clearly still want to see indie movies in theaters (or at least festivals: last year's Sundance lured some 45,000 attendees), but getting them to pony up for smaller, starless work remains tough, as suggested by the $1.3 million domestic box-office haul for ''Another Earth,'' which was picked up at Sundance 2011 by Fox Searchlight.
The evolution of the studio-dependent Fox Searchlight in the past few years has been nothing if not surprising. When Searchlight was led by Peter Rice (he now runs entertainment for Fox television), it released movies that were so alike -- quirky and cute were operative descriptors for titles like ''Juno'' and ''Garden State,'' which invariably came with head-bobbing alt-rock soundtracks -- that its lineup came close to a house style. Under the guidance of Nancy Utley and Steve Gilula, Searchlight since 2009 has edged into more challenging terrain, with titles like ''Shame'' and ''Black Swan.'' It's a risk that largely appears to be paying off, as witnessed by the announcement on Tuesday that one of its boldest recent releases, Terrence Malick's ''Tree of Life,'' had been nominated for a best picture Oscar.
It's hard not to think that Searchlight's success with ''The Tree of Life'' helped sway the producers of the heavily courted ''Beasts of the Southern Wild'' to throw in with the company. The standout of this year's Sundance and among the best films to play at the festival in two decades, ''Beasts of the Southern Wild'' isn't an obvious studio-dependent title. Directed by Benh Zeitlin, who wrote the screenplay with Lucy Alibar, the film is a magical realist tale, as well as a hero's journey, set in a gloriously mythologized part of southern Louisiana nicknamed the Bathtub. There, a 6-year old girl, Hushpuppy (Quvenzhane Wallis, a sensational find), lives in a state of grace and wonder with her hard-boozing father, Wink (Dwight Henry), amid wandering (and later cooked) chickens, stumbling drunks and rampaging creatures.
This is the first feature from Mr. Zeitlin, a Queens native who grew up in Westchester County, graduated from Wesleyan University and counts among his influences Mr. Malick, John Cassavetes and Emir Kusturica. After a stint working in the Czech Republic for another inspiration, the animator Jan Svankmajer, Mr. Zeitlin made his way, post-Katrina, to southern Louisiana, where he shot ''Beasts'' with a collective called Court 13. (''More of an idea than an organization,'' as Mr. Zeitlin puts it, Court 13 takes its name from a Wesleyan squash court that he and some friends commandeered.) Shot on Super 16-millimeter film, ''Beasts of the Southern Wild'' is hauntingly beautiful both visually and in the tenderness it shows toward the characters, who live on the edge and perhaps somewhat in Hushpuppy's head.
Nothing else at this year's festival came close to stirring up the excitement and sense of discovery generated by ''Beasts,'' which predictably also inspired a minor critical backlash and worse. I heard one industry type wonder aloud if Hushpuppy was ''retarded or just black and poor.'' Happily for that fool, the festival was dominated by the familiar complement of drifty and droopy white young things haplessly bumping into the usual life milestones -- divorce, death, desire -- their every banality immortalized by handheld digital cameras. The light weight of such cameras no doubt accounts for the ubiquity of handheld cinematography, though in too many titles this approach has become a lazy tool for directors who seem to think that tripod-free camerawork equates realism.
Unlike the kind of violent trembling or jagged movements that characterize some such work and that can convey a tremendous sense of urgency, a feeling that something profound is at stake (as in ''The Hurt Locker''), these tremulous visuals tend to suggest gentle, almost nervous concern. Do the directors who like to hover with the camera belong to Generation Helicopter, those children coddled by overly attentive parents? Whatever the case, there is often a tentative quality here, as if the directors were reluctant to commit strongly to anything on screen, including an image that doesn't quaver. When the characters are similarly vague, as in So Yong Kim's ''For Ellen,'' this visual signature can make good narrative sense.
A goateed, leather-jacketed Paul Dano stars in ''For Ellen'' as Joby, a rock 'n' roller who believes that he's on the edge of a breakthrough but needs the money from a pending divorce settlement to make it until he does. Much of the movie involves his trying to finalize that divorce while also facing the young daughter he abandoned. In the past, Ms. Kim's storytelling has been so diffuse, borderline vaporous, that her movies (''In Between Days,'' ''Treeless Mountain'') have nearly slid off the screen. Mr. Dano, twitching and preening like a bottom-drawer Robert Plant, helps to give ''For Ellen'' some solidity (and jolts of energy), as does the somewhat stronger, more obvious story that in the end is about yet another younger person struggling with adult responsibilities.
Grown-ups behaving childishly or at least struggling with, or shrugging off, the trappings of adulthood is as much a familiar theme at Sundance as in the multiplex. The comic Mike Birbiglia assumed the role of both director and star to make ''Sleepwalk With Me,'' a fictionalized version of an autobiographical story that will be familiar to ''This American Life'' listeners and New York theatergoers. On the radio, Mr. Birbiglia's story about his increasingly dangerous sleepwalking episodes -- he didn't just walk, he also dangerously meandered -- enthralled. Here, though, the movie weighs too much in the direction of another guy who can't commit, a tedious, trite turn for such an agreeably shambling, empathetic screen presence as Mr. Birbiglia, who's best when he's confessing straight into the camera.
Just as the festival started winding up, the latest bad news on women in the industry from the researcher Martha M. Lauzen hit: they made up only 5 percent of the directors of the 250 top-grossing domestic movies of 2011. Sundance has long been one of the few important film events where women enjoy enough of a high profile that it can be easy to forget how rotten it is for their sisters in the mainstream, on and off the screen. It's no wonder that women like Brit Marling (who helped write and starred in ''Another Earth'') and Rashida Jones, who starred in and helped to write this year's ''Celeste and Jesse Forever,'' a charming, unapologetically mainstream romantic comedy, are taking their careers in their own hands.
Directed by Lee Toland Krieger, ''Celeste and Jesse Forever'' doesn't break any new narrative ground and isn't trying to. Ms. Jones stars as Celeste, a hard-driven trend spotter who's so amicably separated from her husband, Jesse (Andy Samberg), that they've continued to live on the same property. Frustratingly, Mr. Krieger tends to cut away every time the movie promises to go a wee deeper, but he's smart enough to give Ms. Jones room to show how good she can be. And while there's nothing overtly independent about the movie's form or style, its sexual politics and especially its feminist finale are right on.
Messier, noisier and as enjoyable is Julie Delpy's blended-family comedy ''2 Days in New York,'' her successful follow-up to ''2 Days in Paris.'' Making the most of her locations and a funny cast led by her and Chris Rock as an emotionally and psychologically believable, sexy couple, Ms. Delpy creates a utopian portrait of Obama's America in which issues of white and black are at once ever present and almost (if never fully) beside the point of surviving some lovably quarrelsome French relatives. Mr. Rock's performance as Mingus, a laid-back writer who likes to confide his familial and relationship woes to a cardboard cutout of the president, is particularly winning.
Leslye Headland's ''Bachelorette,'' an unfunny female comedy about a troika of hateful bridesmaids led by the reliable Kirsten Dunst, is clearly meant to exploit the ''Bridesmaids'' phenomena: women talk dirty, have bodily fluids and can turn a movie into a hit! Further under the radar though far more successful is ''Middle of Nowhere,'' a heartfelt, slow to build, slow to burn drama from Ava DuVernay about a young married woman, Ruby (Emayatzy Corinealdi), keeping body and soul together while her husband, Derek (Omari Hardwick), serves out his sentence in a California prison. Working with the terrific cinematographer Bradford Young, Ms. DuVernay fills her movie with long shots and meticulously framed images of casual beauty that reflect the quietly evolving inner life of her heroine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Quvenzhane Wallis plays a mystical 6-year-old in Benh Zeitlin's ''Beasts of the Southern Wild,'' the movie that created the most stir at the Sundance Film Festival, which ends on Saturday.
Julie Delpy's ''2 Days in New York'' features, from left, Chris Rock, Talen Ruth Riley, Owen Shipman and Ms. Delpy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOJO WHILDEN) (C1)
Clockwise from above, Frank Langella as a retired jewel thief, with his mechanized caretaker in ''Robot and Frank''
Zoe Saldana and Bradley Cooper in a scene from the thriller ''The Words''
Lauren Miller, far left, and Ari Graynor in the phone-sex comedy ''For a Good Time, Call . . . ''
and Rashida Jones in Lee Toland Krieger's romantic comedy''Celeste and Jesse Forever.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT LLOYD
JONATHAN WENK/CBS FILMS
JAMES LAXTON
DAVID LANZENBERG)
 Emayatzy Corinealdi stars in Ava DuVernay's drama ''Middle of Nowhere.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUNDANCE) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TICKET SALES (74%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (68%); THEATER (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (56%); CHRIS ROCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1262 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHEELS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: California Board Approves Tougher Zero-Emissions Rule

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
In a unanimous vote on Friday, the California Air Resources Board, known as CARB, affirmed a major expansion of its Advanced Clean Car rules. According to CARB's projection, the program would result in an additional 1.4 million zero- and near-zero-emission vehicles on the state's roads by 2025.
Under the plan, 500,000 of those vehicles would be battery-electric or fuel-cell models that produce no tailpipe emissions. The rest would be plug-in hybrids that qualify as transitional zero-emission vehicles. The recommendation had wide support from environmentalists and many automakers before the vote. 
At least one provision, however, was termed a loophole by some environmental groups. This provision would allow an automaker that surpassed the federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards in a particular year to accumulate credits. The credits could be applied in subsequent years, effectively delaying the automaker's need to build zero-emission vehicles.
Plug In America, a nonprofit group that advocates an accelerated shift to plug-in vehicles, called the provision ''a gaping loophole which will cause the loss of hundreds of thousands of plug-in cars in California.''
Mary D. Nichols, the CARB chairwoman, said in a conference call after the vote that the overcompliance allowance was ''a valuable piece of the overall package.''
Hyundai was among the automakers testifying for the overcompliance rule. ''This flexibility allows Hyundai to significantly overcomply with CAFE and build a somewhat smaller number of zero-emission vehicles for a short time between 2018 and 2021,'' Mike O'Brien, a Hyundai product development vice president, said in a telephone interview after Friday's vote. ''It will lead to more greenhouse gas reductions by Hyundai than without the provision.''
California's program, which is scheduled to be phased in during the 2018 model year, is part of a broader package of regulations, also approved by CARB on Friday, that includes requirements for the construction of hydrogen filling stations for fuel-cell vehicles. Reductions in greenhouse gases and smog-causing pollutants are also mandated in the program.
Ms. Nichols said that wide support from environmental groups, consumers and automakers for the recommendations made the vote ''one of the easiest decisions we've had to make.''
Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade group, qualified her praise for Friday's outcome in a telephone interview. ''In general, our reaction is that we are already building these clean cars, we hope they sell -- and it's now up to California to build the necessary electric charging stations and hydrogen fueling.''
In a news release, CARB said the program would cut greenhouse gases from new cars in California 34 percent from 2016 levels and help create 21,000 jobs in the state by 2025. By that year, one in seven new cars sold in the state would be a battery-electric, fuel-cell or plug-in hybrid, according to CARB's projection.
''This is history,'' said David Friedman, deputy director for clean vehicles at the Union of Concerned Scientists, in a telephone interview. ''With both California and the federal government moving forward, we're talking about a clean car revolution that won't just be televised, it will be driven.''
The provision for overcompliance with the federal fuel economy standards, which require automakers to achieve fleetwide averages of 54.5 miles per gallon in 2025, may cause further debate in coming years.
''We're disappointed to see a special overcompliance carve-out for manufacturers included,'' Simon Mui, a clean vehicles scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a telephone interview. ''It will lead to a reduction in clean vehicle numbers.'' But Mr. Mui also said CARB adopted ''a good package, over all.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); SMOG (77%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (76%); GAS STATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (58%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1263 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MAISONROUGE, JACQUES

 BODY:
MAISONROUGE--Jacques, 87, passed away at home in Paris on January 25, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife, Francoise, their five children, Christine, Florence, Sylvie, Francois and Anne-Sophie, their spouses and partner, Xavier, Vincent, Robert, Ketty and Sophie, their eleven grandchildren and their spouses, and their ten great-grandchildren. He instilled his high sense of duty, hard work and ethics to his family, and took great pride in their achievements. 
He was thrilled to have started a family now living in France, the US, the UK, and even China. His lifelong love of the United States was born in occupied France. In 1948, after graduating from the prestigious Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures, he joined IBM, and he and Francoise moved to the US for what would be the first of four long stays there. His career at IBM spanned 36 years, and would culminate in his becoming Chairman and CEO of IBM World Trade Corporation, and a member of the Board of IBM Corporation. A true French patriot, he was a champion of French-American friendship, and a passionate supporter of Europe. In parallel to his business career, he was a tireless promoter of "world peace through world trade". After retiring from IBM in 1984, he continued to serve on a number of boards, including those of L'Air Liquide and Philip Morris. In 1986, he was called to duty by the French government, and served as Director General of Industry. He served on the boards or as president of a number of philanthropic organizations involved in economic policy making, management, education and health. Most notably, he was President of his alma mater, the Ecole Centrale, and of the American Hospital of Paris. In 1999, he was made a Knight Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, the highest order in France. He was a Knight of Malta (GM), and the recipient of honors from many countries where he had made his mark. He was particularly proud to have been invited by the Society of the Cincinnati to become an honorary member. Members of the Society are descendants of the officers of the Continental Army and Navy and their French counterparts who served in the Revolutionary War. The funeral service is at Saint-Louis des Invalides Cathedral, in Paris, on Monday, January 30, at 10:30am.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (78%); ETHICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CHARITIES (66%); ARMIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PHILANTHROPY (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (69%); IBM WORLD TRADE CORP (69%); AIR LIQUIDE SA (54%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (69%); IBM (NYSE) (69%); IBM (LSE) (69%); AI (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (54%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (58%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MALTA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1264 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Reviews Of Obama Plan To Keep Down College Costs

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
In a campus visit Friday morning, President Obama outlined his plans to keep college tuition costs in check, getting a wildly enthusiastic response at the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor.
Students cheered his oratory on the importance of a college degree, expanded student aid, affordable college costs -- and, of course, his many references to Michigan, a key swing state.
But out in the world, the reaction to the president's proposals -- tying colleges' eligibility for certain federal aid programs to their affordability and outcomes -- was far more tempered. 
Most people stressed that they, too, wanted to make college education more affordable. But when it came to the particulars of the plan -- and paying for it -- there was no consensus.
''The idea of helping students and families pay for college is very popular,'' said Terry W. Hartle, vice president of the American Council on Education. ''On the other hand, nobody would bet on Congress passing much of anything this year, given the poisonous political atmosphere we are living in. The problem is, many of the president's ideas are fairly pricey.''
Briefing reporters on Friday afternoon, Department of Education officials said they would release information next month on how the plan could be financed, as part of the budget process.
Generally, in academia, there was strong support for the president's plan to double work-study jobs and to expand the pool of money available for Perkins loans.
And some leaders, like Bill Powers, president of the University of Texas, liked the administration's idea of tying aid to results.
''He's proposing a form of performance funding for a portion of federal spending, and my view is that, whatever level of funding we're talking about, that's the approach we ought to take,'' he said.
But others said they felt public higher education would suffer from tuition increases that were an inevitable result of state budget cuts. And while they appreciated the president's advocacy for affordable higher education, many were wary of his plan.
''The answer is not going to come from more federal controls on colleges or states, or by telling families to judge the value of an education by the amount young graduates earn in the first few years after they graduate,'' said David L. Warren, president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities.
He warned of unintended consequences: If colleges are forced to cut corners, educational quality could decline.
In Congress, reaction to the plan seemed to divide along party lines.
''The president is saying that people can't afford to go to college anymore, and that just simply is not true,'' said Representative Virginia Foxx, the North Carolina Republican who is chairwoman of the House Higher Education subcommittee. ''Tuition is too high at most schools, but it isn't the job of the federal government to punish those schools. It's very arbitrary, and the president sounds like a dictator.''
Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a Republican and a former federal secretary of education, offered his own ideas of improving academic efficiency: ''I've suggested that they could offer three-year degrees to some students. Colleges could also operate more in the summertime, which would make more efficient use of campuses and reduce their costs.''
Many Democrats offered only the blandest of statements praising the president for tackling the affordability issue. ''The president's higher education proposal rightly calls on colleges, universities and states to maintain a commitment to keep college costs low making it easier for American families and their children to afford a college education,'' Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, said in a statement.
Past efforts to rein in college costs have not fared well on Capitol Hill. Nine years ago, Representative Howard P. McKeon, a California Republican, proposed to cap colleges' tuition increases at twice the rate of inflation, with sanctions including the loss of federal aid, but colleges protested, and the bill died in committee.
At the American Council on Education, there are concerns that Mr. Obama's proposal to track outcomes by collecting information on graduates' debt and earnings would harm institutions that train Head Start teachers and other important but low-paid professionals, while rewarding business schools.
Molly Corbett Broad, the council's president, said many complex questions remained to be answered, among them, how affordability should be judged, and what the effect would be on public institutions that had had to raise tuition because of deep state funding cuts.
Furthermore, she said, even if the administration's Race to the Top grant competition may have worked in leveraging change in K-12 schools, higher education is so different that it is not clear that the president's proposal for a similar competition to spur state higher-education reform would be a good tool.
''The devil's in the details,'' she said. ''And we don't know the details yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); BUDGETS (86%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BUDGET CUTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); VIRGINIA FOXX (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1265 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: President, Buoyed by Rising Numbers, Seeks to Rally Democrats

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and HELENE COOPER; Jonathan Weisman reported from Cambridge, Md., and Helene Cooper from Ann Arbor, Mich.

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Md. -- President Obama, buoyed by improving economic news and rising poll numbers, rallied House Democrats here on Friday with an address that inched toward a ''morning in America'' tone and dwelled heavily on his vision of a national collective responsibility.
Mr. Obama left it to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., speaking earlier in the day, to make an overt attack on the Republican presidential candidates Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney. But both the president and vice president were cautiously optimistic about their political future and about a nation still struggling out of a recession. 
''You get a sense of movement, a restoration of hope and possibility,'' Mr. Obama told enthusiastic House Democrats, who sense their political fate is tied to his. ''But people understand the job's not done, not even close to being done.''
The president's and vice president's appearances here capped a three-day retreat aimed at further bolstering Democrats, who find the political environment turning modestly in their favor. A new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that a slowly improving economy had raised approval ratings for how Mr. Obama is handling the economy, and that 47 percent of voters favor Democratic control of Congress against 41 percent who want Republicans in control.
Democrats, who from time to time have been at odds with the White House over agendas and tactics, appear to be synchronizing. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, previewed legislation Friday that is to be introduced next week to codify the president's ''Buffett Rule'' by setting a 30-percent tax floor for taxpayers with total incomes over $1 million. Representative John B. Larson of Connecticut, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, introduced Mr. Obama as ''our leader, our champion, the commander in chief of our forces.''
Mr. Biden acknowledged the tensions that simmered last year when House Democrats limped to this same resort on the Chesapeake Bay after their drubbing in the 2010 elections. He said Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, gave him a message for dealing with Republicans: ''Get tough with these guys. Enough is enough. Lay down our cards and stay pat.''
''The message was heard, folks,'' he told cheering Democrats. ''The message was heard.''
Republicans continued to hammer the White House Friday for what they called campaigning for re-election on the taxpayers' dime.
''Here's the problem with this president,'' said Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee. ''He travels the country, not promoting policies that will get Americans back to work, but giving the same old stump speech full of failed economic policies and broken promises.''
Mr. Biden spoke without notes and hit at the two Republican front-runners by name.
''I don't want to get going on these guys; I know that's not appropriate,'' he said, before doing just that. He castigated Mr. Romney for his call to allow American automakers to go into bankruptcy, and Mr. Gingrich for suggestions that some poor people do not have strong work habits.
But Mr. Biden also offered some potential campaign fodder to the opposition, describing a new standard by which he said voters should judge the Obama White House. He said he and Mr. Obama had discussed a test for determining whether they had brought the economy back.
''It's us changing the economic environment so that ordinary people can turn and look at their kid and say, 'Honey, it's going to be O.K.,' '' he said.
He added, ''People are tired of being tired.''
Like the Republican presidential contenders, Mr. Biden framed the coming election as a stark choice between visions of governance. But he said Republican promises to return the country to a more unfettered, market-oriented economy -- with minimal government help for ailing industries, struggling homeowners and families unable to afford college -- would redound to the Democrats' favor.
''I know where it ends,'' he said. ''It ends Jan. 20 of next year when Barack and I are standing once again with a majority in Congress.''
Mr. Obama was less partisan, but he forcefully promised action on an agenda that some Republicans have labeled socialist and derided as class warfare.
''We're going to push hard for the Buffett Rule,'' he said, ''not out of envy but out of a sense of fairness and a sense of mutual responsibility.''
Earlier Friday, in Ann Arbor, Mich., Mr. Obama called on Congress to approve a financial aid overhaul that for the first time would tie federal aid for colleges to their success in improving affordability and value for students. Mr. Obama said it was the government's obligation to narrow the gap between rich and poor.
''I am only standing here because scholarships and student loans gave me a shot at a decent education,'' he told the crowd at the University of Michigan, where students braved early-morning snow to stand in line to see him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor on Friday. He and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. also spoke at a retreat for House Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (75%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (68%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN LARSON (58%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1266 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PALESTINIANS REJECT PROPOSAL
FOR TWO-STATE SETTLEMENT
Israeli negotiators told their Palestinian counterparts that their guiding principle for drawing the borders of a future two-state solution would be for existing settlement blocks to become part of Israel, an approach that the Palestinians rejected. Page A4
WATCHING THE CRISIS UNFOLD 
In a constant drumbeat lasting many months, Latin Americans have watched the economic developments and travails in developed countries. To them, there are familiar problems once associated with their region, which, not long ago, was a perennial champion of financial crises and bailouts. Page A4
PIRATES IN HIGH-SEAS LIMBO
While efforts at stopping piracy have been successful, a satisfactory end game for pirates taken into custody remains elusive due to a wrinkle in international law enforcement. News Analysis. Page A5
HAMAS LEADER LEAVES
Khaled Meshal, the leader of the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas, has abandoned his longtime base in Syria, where a popular uprising has left thousands dead, and has no plans to return, Hamas sources in Gaza said. Page A6
ANGER TURNS TO ISLAMISTS
The resentments of many young political activists toward the Muslim Brotherhood spilled into a public spat as some demonstrators who came out to mark the first anniversary of the country's revolution turned on the Islamists. Page A7
434 KILLED AFTER PULLOUT
Since the United States military withdrew from Iraq, 434 Iraqis have been killed in attacks across the country, according to officials, one of the highest tolls for that amount of time in the past few years. Page A8
National
OBAMA'S COLLEGE COST PLAN
GETS SOME MIXED REVIEWS
As he outlined his plans to help keep college tuition costs in check during a campus visit, President Obama got an enthusiastic reception at the University of Michigan. But out in the world, the reaction to the president's proposals was far more tempered. Page A10
D.E.A. PRESSURED ON POLICY
The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform raised the pressure on the Justice Department to discuss how the the Drug Enforcement Administration conducts its undercover money-laundering investigations. Page A11
OUTRAGE OVER VERDICT
The collapse this week of the prosecution of a Marine for a civilian massacre in Haditha, Iraq has not only outraged Iraqis but also stunned some American military law specialists. Page A11
VISIONS OF A MOON COLONY
Could the United States establish a moon colony and develop a new propulsion system for going to Mars? The answers seem to be technologically yes, economically iffy and politically very difficult. Political Science, Kenneth Chang. Page A13
BAREFOOT BANDIT SENTENCED
Colton Harris-Moore, the former fugitive known as the ''Barefoot Bandit,'' was sentenced in federal court to six and a half years in prison, completing a legal odyssey that mirrored his two-year, cross-country crime spree. Page A15
New York
FUTURE IN DOUBT
FOR HUDSON RIVER PARK
The Hudson River Park has succeeded in drawing millions of visitors and billions of dollars in development to the West Side. But it now finds its future in doubt. Page A16
Business
FOR FORD, THREE YEARS
OF PROFIT IN A ROW
The Ford Motor Company reported its third-consecutive full-year profit and the largest in 13 years, ensuring its hourly workers one of the biggest profit-sharing bonuses in the company's history. Page B1
SUBPOENAS ISSUED ON FRAUD
A new law enforcement group examining securities fraud from the housing bubble and financial crisis has already issued civil subpoenas to 11 financial companies for information related to their actions in the market for residential mortgage-backed securities, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said. Page B3
UNION MEMBERSHIP FELL
The nation's union membership rate continued a decades-long slide last year, falling to 11.8 percent of the American work force in 2011, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced in a report. Page B3
DIABETES DRUG APPROVED
Amylin Pharmaceuticals won federal approval for its new, more convenient drug for Type 2 diabetes, ending years of setbacks. Page B4
VOTE ON ZERO-EMISSIONS
In a unanimous vote, the California Air Resources Board, approved a program to require 1.4 million zero- and near-zero-emission vehicles on the state's roads by 2025. Page B7 Sports
YALE PLAYER SAYS ALLEGATION
DID NOT AFFECT RHODES BID
Patrick Witt, Yale University's star quarterback, denied that his Rhodes scholarship candidacy was suspended last fall due to a sexual assault allegation, and said that he made his decision to play the annual game against Harvard, rather than pursue the scholarship, before the Rhodes Trust knew of the allegation. Page B9
Arts
CREATING WORKS OF ART
WITHOUT THE USE OF A NET
The Outsider Art Fair, now celebrating its 20th anniversary, will be judged not by its title, but by the vitality and variety of works on offer, writes Karen Rosenberg. The thread linking the fair's three dozen or so booths is a personal compulsion to make art, without a rulebook and with whatever materials happen to be at hand. Page C1
THREE STARS OF DANCE
New York City Ballet has its flaws, but a lack of vibrant female dancers isn't one of them. Wendy Whelan, Megan Fairchild and Ashley Bouder show off their evolving skills in a program of ballets by Balanchine and Jerome Robbins. Page C3
Op-ED
Charles M. Blow PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MARITIME PIRACY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SENTENCING (84%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); POLITICS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TUITION FEES (69%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); VERDICTS (65%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1267 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: A Girl's Got to Work: From Lingerie to Glocks

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
''One for the Money,'' the latest Katherine Heigl vehicle to park itself in the multiplexes, is also the title of a best-selling novel by Janet Evanovich. It is worth stating this fact at the outset to avoid the mistaken but entirely plausible assumption that the phrase somehow made its way onto the lobby posters from the subject line of an e-mail from Ms. Heigl's agent.
There are now 18 volumes in Ms. Evanovich's series about Stephanie Plum, the Trenton bounty hunter played by Ms. Heigl with brown hair and an accent that might suggest New Jersey to someone who once overheard a conversation about an episode of ''The Sopranos.'' ''One for the Money,'' in other words, is an attempt to inaugurate a new movie franchise, something that might appeal to women and mystery fans. This is a perfectly sound ambition, but the movie, directed by Julie Anne Robinson from a script by Stacy Sherman, Karen Ray and Liz Brixius, is so weary and uninspired that it feels more like an exhausted end than an energetic beginning. 
Stephanie is, on paper, an appealing character. Divorced, recently unemployed (from a job selling lingerie at Macy's) and generally down on her luck, she is nonetheless plucky and resilient. Those are qualities that Ms. Heigl does her best to approximate, arriving somewhere around chipper and impatient.
The movie itself never makes it quite that far. Stephanie takes a job working for her cousin's bail bond company and leaps at the chance to track down Joe Morelli (Jason O'Mara), a cop gone bad -- though he may be innocent -- and also a man who long ago did Stephanie wrong. There is still something of a spark between them, as well as between Stephanie and Ranger (Daniel Sunjata), a hunky fellow who serves as her bounty-hunting mentor.
A caper unfolds, clumsily and without much conviction, bringing Stephanie into contact with a cheerful prostitute (Sherri Shepherd), a nasty kickboxer (Gavin-Keith Umeh) and his trainer (John Leguizamo), and various others. There is action of a sort -- a car blows up, shots are fired -- and what might pass for witty, sexy banter to someone who once overheard a conversation about an episode of ''Moonlighting.''
Speaking of television, the one mildly interesting thing about ''One for the Money'' -- apart from Debbie Reynolds's scene-stealing shtick as Stephanie's grandmother -- is that it offers a data point for those studying the cultural decline of cinema. I don't mean this in any grandiose or melodramatic way. Not long ago it would have been possible to convey the bland, lazy, pedestrian qualities of this picture -- its lackadaisical pacing, by-the-numbers performances, irritating music and drab visual texture -- by likening it to a made-for-TV movie or an episode of a series on basic cable. But nowadays that would be praise, and movies like this must set their own standard for mediocrity.
''One for the Money'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Trenton looks great.
One for the Money
Opened on Friday nationwide.
Directed by Julie Anne Robinson; written by Stacy Sherman, Karen Ray and Liz Brixius, based on the novel by Janet Evanovich; director of photography, James Whitaker; edited by Lisa Zeno Churgin; music by Deborah Lurie; production design by Franco-Giacomo Carbone; costumes by Michael Dennison; produced by Sidney Kimmel, Wendy Finerman, Tom Rosenberg and Gary Lucchesi; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.
WITH: Katherine Heigl (Stephanie Plum), Jason O'Mara (Joseph Morelli), Daniel Sunjata (Ranger), John Leguizamo (Jimmy Alpha), Sherri Shepherd (Lula), Debbie Reynolds (Grandma Mazur) and Gavin-Keith Umeh (Benito Ramirez).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katherine Heigl and Daniel Sunjata in ''One for the Money,'' directed by Julie Anne Robinson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON BATZDORFF/LIONSGATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BESTSELLERS (78%); BAIL BONDING SERVICES (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (68%); BAIL (64%)

PERSON: KATHERINE HEIGL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: One for the Money (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1268 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew At Quicker Pace In 4th Quarter

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Liz Alderman contributed reporting from Davos, Switzerland.

 BODY:
The American economy picked up a little steam last quarter, growing at its fastest pace in a year and a half. Whether it can sustain that momentum is critical to millions of Americans out of work -- and perhaps President Obama's re-election chances.
The nation's economic output grew at an annualized rate of 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department reported Friday, probably putting to rest last summer's fears that a second recession was imminent. Other reports this week on manufacturing and consumer sentiment offered similar, if mild, encouragement. 
''All in all, it's not bad, but there's no oomph,'' said Jay Feldman, an economist at Credit Suisse.
Forecasts have called for such slow growth that the Federal Reserve on Wednesday said it planned to keep interest rates near zero through 2014. Even with the pickup in output, the pace last quarter was below the average of economic expansions in the United States since World War II. Given how much ground was lost during the Great Recession, the United States economy needs above-average growth right now.
Government spending is not helping, either. Not because it's too big -- but because it's shrinking at a rapid pace.
Spending at the federal, state and local levels fell at an annual rate of 4.6 percent last quarter, providing a significant drag on total gross domestic product. At least at the state and local levels, the cuts are likely to continue as municipal governments shed workers and public services.
At the federal level, the biggest cuts were in national defense, which fell at a whopping annual rate of 12.5 percent. That's an unusually large dip, and economists do not expect to see it repeated in the beginning of 2012.
But legislators may wield the ax elsewhere in the federal budget.
Congress has not decided whether to renew a temporary payroll tax cut and extended unemployment benefits past February, when both are scheduled to expire. Allowing these benefits to lapse would shave a percentage point off gross domestic product growth this year, said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.
''A great deal is at stake,'' said Alan B. Krueger, chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. ''Continuing that support for household consumption is extremely important for sustaining and strengthening the recovery.''
Growth in the fourth quarter was also driven mostly by companies rebuilding their stockroom inventories, not by consumers who were shopping more or foreign businesses buying more American-made products. And companies are likely to have only so much appetite for refilling their back-room shelves if consumers are still unwilling to buy those products.
Consumer spending rose at an annual pace of 2 percent, slightly better than the 1.7 percent in the previous quarter, Friday's report showed. But based on early data, it looks as if consumer spending deteriorated toward the end of the year. This may be because of unseasonably warm December weather, which probably lowered families' household electricity and gas bills. Consumers also benefited from lower gasoline prices, but appear to remain concerned about stagnant incomes.
''We did have some relief on gasoline prices in the fourth quarter, but that didn't cause people to go out and spend more vigorously,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. ''It just means they didn't have to dip into savings.''
One of the more positive surprises in the report was in housing. Investments in sectors like home construction and repairs rose 10.9 percent last quarter. The housing sector is so small now, though, that it didn't provide much energy.
Some economists found signs for optimism in other recent economic reports. New orders for manufactured durable goods, reported on Thursday, exceeded economists' expectations in December by growing 3 percent.
Credit to small businesses has also been expanding steadily over the last year.
''I talk to banks and I talk to small businesses, and I promise you, credit's been the main problem, just as it is after every financial crisis,'' Mr. Shepherdson said. ''Once you see credit start to grow again, provided there are no other encumbrances'' -- like last year's Arab Spring, Japanese earthquake or debt ceiling debacle -- ''we should see small businesses expanding and hiring.''
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, echoed that sentiment, saying that the critical risks to the American economy were a worsening of Europe's chronic sovereign debt crisis or a rise in tensions between Iran and the international community, which could stoke global oil prices. He said he expected the United States to grow about 2 to 3 percent this year, ahead of the 1.7 percent growth in 2011. Last year was the slowest growth in a nonrecessionary year since 1947, economists at Credit Suisse said.
Many of the bigger American companies have reported strong profits in recent months, too.
Companies like General Electric and Lockheed Martin closed the year with record order backlogs, a sign that, at least for some businesses, demand is so strong that they cannot produce quickly enough. The backlogs portend solid growth in coming quarters, and suggest to some economists that the United States could weather the European debt crisis relatively unscathed after all.
On the other hand, corporate success has not translated into big benefits for American workers and consumers so far in this recovery. Today, the nation produces more than it did when the recession began in 2007, but it manages to do so with six million fewer jobs.
Companies seem reluctant to use their mounting profits to invest in new workers.
''Businesses have been holding much higher levels of cash than they have in past,'' said Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist at RDQ Economics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A welder at a Alstrom Heat Transfer in New York City. If the economy sustains its speed, it could ease the unemployment crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (62%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1269 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Assault on Civil Society

 BODY:
Post-Mubarak Egypt is facing profound challenges with its unfinished revolution and looming economic crisis. The last thing it needs is to pick a fight with the United States. Yet the military rulers have done just that, demonstrating contempt for civil society and an old ally. 
On Dec. 29, security forces raided as many as seven nongovernmental groups in Cairo, including three American-financed democracy-building groups -- the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute and Freedom House. Employees were hauled in for questioning in a bogus criminal investigation.
On Thursday, the Egyptian government confirmed that it had barred at least six Americans -- including I.R.I.'s Egypt director, Sam LaHood, the son of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood -- from leaving the country.
The generals make the specious charge that recent unrest was caused by ''foreign hands.'' Outside forces didn't drive Egyptians to courageously rise up against Hosni Mubarak. And outside forces aren't driving them to keep pressing the military to keep its promises and move fully to civilian rule. If Egyptians want outside help to make that transition, they should be allowed to accept it.
I.R.I.'s president, Lorne Craner, said that in his organization's 30-year history, it has never been treated like this by any country, including Russia, China and Venezuela.
Egypt's military receives $1.3 billion in annual aid from Washington. It is beyond us why the generals would keep pressing this destructive dispute, even after hearing remonstrations from President Obama, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta. They must let Mr. LaHood and the others go immediately.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (57%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (57%); INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (78%); RAY LAHOOD (75%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); LEON E PANETTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (88%) EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1270 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Close Ties to Goldman Enrich Romney's Public and Private Lives

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, PETER LATTMAN and KEVIN ROOSE; Floyd Norris, Michael Barbaro and Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When Bain Capital sought to raise money in 1989 for a fast-growing office-supply company named Staples, Mitt Romney, Bain's founder, called upon a trusted business partner: Goldman Sachs, whose bankers led the company's initial public offering.
When Mr. Romney became governor of Massachusetts, his blind trust gave Goldman much of his wealth to manage, a fortune now estimated to be as much as $250 million. 
And as Mr. Romney mounts his second bid for the presidency, Goldman is coming through again: Its employees have contributed at least $367,000 to his campaign, making the firm Mr. Romney's largest single source of campaign money through the end of September.
No other company is so closely intertwined with Mr. Romney's public and private lives except Bain itself. And in recent days, Mr. Romney's ties to Goldman Sachs have lashed another lightning rod to a campaign already fending off withering attacks on his career as a buyout specialist, thrusting the privileges of the Wall Street elite to the forefront of the Republican nominating battle.
Newt Gingrich, whose allies have spent millions of dollars on advertisements painting Mr. Romney as a heartless ''vulture capitalist,'' seized on Mr. Romney's Goldman ties at Thursday's Republican debate in Florida, suggesting that he had profited through Goldman on banks that had foreclosed on Floridians. And as the fight over regulation of financial firms spills onto the campaign trail, Mr. Romney's support for the industry -- he has called for repeal of the Dodd-Frank legislation tightening oversight of Wall Street -- may draw more fire.
Mr. Romney's positions and pedigree have helped draw to his side major donors in the financial world. The securities and investment industry has given more money to Mr. Romney than any other industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, and some of its leading figures have donated millions of dollars to Restore Our Future, the ''super PAC'' bolstering Mr. Romney's campaign. Goldman employees are also the biggest source of donations to Free & Strong America PAC, a group Mr. Romney founded but no longer controls.
But Mr. Romney's personal finances are particularly entwined with Goldman.
His federal financial disclosure statements show Mr. Romney and his wife, their blind trusts and their family foundation to be prodigious consumers of the bank's services. In 2011, Mr. Romney's blind trust and the couple's retirement accounts held as much as $36.7 million in at least two dozen Goldman investment vehicles, earning as much as $3 million a year in income. Mrs. Romney's trust had at least $10.2 million in Goldman funds -- possibly much more -- earning as much as $6.2 million.
Tax returns released by the campaign this week also highlighted some of the privileges Mr. Romney enjoyed as a friend of Goldman: In May 1999, a few months after he left Bain to run the Salt Lake City Olympics, Goldman allowed Mr. Romney to buy at least 7,000 Goldman shares during the firm's lucrative initial public offering -- a generous allotment even among Goldman clients, according to people with knowledge of the deal. When Mr. Romney's trusts sold the shares in December 2010, a few months before he formed his presidential exploratory committee for the 2012 race, they returned a profit of $750,000.
A spokeswoman for Goldman declined to comment, as did a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney.
Investing with Goldman was not without risks: Like other Goldman clients, the Romneys invested money in a family of funds known as Whitehall, which placed highly leveraged bets on office buildings, casinos and hotels. Some Whitehall deals collapsed during the financial crisis, saddling Mr. Romney and its other investors with big losses.
And some of the attacks on Mr. Romney have overreached. While Mr. Gingrich charged on Thursday that his rival did business with a firm that ''was explicitly foreclosing on Floridians,'' that is not accurate: The family's holdings include a Goldman fund that, like other investment funds, has invested partly in mortgage-backed securities. Goldman sold its mortgage servicing arm, Litton Loan Servicing, last year.
But other elements of Mr. Romney's personal and business ties to Goldman may prove more controversial. Bain's mid-1990s acquisition of Dade Behring, a medical device maker with factories in Florida, has become a totem of the economic upheaval that private equity can inflict. Goldman invested in the acquisition, which brought the bank $120 million and Bain $242 million -- but led to the layoffs of hundreds of workers in Miami. Democrats hammered Mr. Romney over the deal this week.
When Mr. Romney was building Bain into one of the world's premier private equity firms, Goldman's bankers clamored for Bain business, and won assignments advising or financing an array of Bain deals, including Bain's 1997 $800 million buyout of Sealy, the nation's largest mattress company, which it later sold.
As Mr. Romney amassed his fortune, Goldman also offered up the services of an elite Boston-based team in the bank's private wealth management unit. The relationship gave him access to Goldman's exclusive investment funds, including private equity vehicles known as Goldman Sachs Capital Partners.
Mr. Romney is far from Goldman's largest client -- some investors have billions of dollars at the firm -- but his political connections and founding role at Bain have elevated his importance there. His Goldman investments are handled by Jim Donovan, who has built one of the largest-producing businesses in Goldman's private wealth management unit, managing several billion dollars for the firm's individual clients.
Goldman gave Mr. Romney's trusts access to the bank's own exclusive investment funds and helped him execute an aggressive and complex tax-deferral strategy known as an ''exchange fund'' in 2002. (Since 2003, most of Mr. Romney's money has been held in blind trusts, meaning that he no longer makes many of his own investment decisions.) According to tax returns released this week, the family's three principal trusts earned more than $9 million from various Goldman Sachs investment vehicles in 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1271 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: New Fraud Investigation Group Issues Subpoenas to Financial Companies

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A new law enforcement group examining securities fraud from the housing bubble and financial crisis has already issued civil subpoenas to 11 financial companies for information related to their actions in the market for residential mortgage-backed securities, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said Friday.
President Obama announced the new group in his State of the Union address on Tuesday, saying it would ''hold accountable those who broke the law, speed assistance to homeowners, and help turn the page on an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans.'' 
At a news conference Friday, Mr. Holder said the group would be treading on different ground than that already covered by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory agencies that had previously filed fraud charges against sellers of mortgage-backed securities.
''We are wasting no time in aggressively pursuing any and all leads,'' Mr. Holder said. ''In sending out those subpoenas, we consulted with the S.E.C. in making a determination as to where they should go.'' Officials would not say which companies received the subpoenas.
''We are not going to be looking at the same things they are examining,'' he added. ''We're going to be working with them but looking at a separate group of institutions.''
The group, known as the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, is part of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, an interagency outfit created by Mr. Obama in 2009 to prosecute financial crimes.
Despite three years of work by that task force, however, public sentiment still holds that few if any of the real perpetrators of the housing bubble and financial crisis have been held accountable.
Eric Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, who is a co-chairman of the working group, said that having many different law enforcement groups working together ''enables us to go places where each of us individually could not go.'' For example, he said, ''having the I.R.S. on the team opens up the possibility of looking into tax issues that hadn't existed before.''
In addition, the New York State Martin Act, which gives the attorney general broad powers to elicit information during investigations, ''is more flexible than federal securities laws,'' Mr. Schneiderman said. The New York and Delaware attorneys general also have jurisdiction over the trusts that hold the mortgages that underlie the mortgage-backed securities, making them ''the bricks and mortar of this entire structure.''
By coordinating their efforts, group members might be able to share documents and information that usually would be in individual agency silos, Mr. Holder said.
Although some prohibitions exist on sharing federal grand jury information, he added, ''there are ways in which we can structure these investigations so that I don't think grand jury prohibitions on the federal side will prevent us from sharing necessary information with our state partners.''
Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development, whose agency is also part of the antifraud group, said its priorities also would include getting some financial relief to homeowners whose investments had been hurt by manipulations in the market for mortgage-backed securities.
A ''fundamental principle'' of the effort, Mr. Donovan said, is that ''there is relief also for those homeowners'' whose loans underlie the mortgage-backed securities. ''It would be a tragedy,'' he added, ''if investors were made whole but homeowners who were wronged as well'' continued to suffer.
Mr. Donovan said that a separate settlement being worked out between state attorneys general and mortgage servicing companies would not thwart the new group's investigations, even if the settlement released companies from further law enforcement efforts related to mortgage servicing.
''We would not be standing here today if we were not absolutely confident,'' Mr. Donovan said, adding that any releases being contemplated ''are narrow enough to allow us to go forward aggressively.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Schneiderman, New York attorney general, center
Shaun Donovan, left
 and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); JURISDICTION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1272 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Times and Tides Weigh on Hudson River Park

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
It is supposed to be the model for New York City parks to come -- built from dilapidated industrial structures, self-sustaining and financed by commercial ventures operating on parkland. And Hudson River Park, which stretches five miles along the Manhattan waterfront from Battery Place to 59th Street, has succeeded in drawing millions of visitors and billions of dollars in development to the West Side. But it now finds its future in doubt.
Capital funds from the city and state have fallen to just $7 million from a high of $42 million in 2008, because of the recession. Meanwhile, two of the park's planned revenue-producing commercial piers have yet to be developed, leaving the Hudson River Park Trust, which runs the park, short of the money it needs for routine maintenance.
Adding to its woes: A lawsuit filed in November by the owners of Chelsea Piers, the sports and entertainment complex, which leases three piers from 17th to 23rd Street from the trust. The suit seeks to force the trust, and by extension taxpayers, to spend ''at least $37.5 million'' repairing damage its piers have sustained over the past two decades from small marine borers known as gribbles and teredos. 
This month, the trust fired back in court with a motion to dismiss, arguing that the lawsuit amounted to nothing more than a ''for-profit commercial venture trying to secure a huge public bailout for longstanding problems of its own making and for which it bears the sole legal responsibility.''
The suit is a contest between the Bloomberg administration, state officials and the trust on one side and on the other, a well-connected group of investors led by Roland W. Betts, whose list of friends includes George E. Pataki, Michael R. Bloomberg and his Yale fraternity brother George W. Bush. The trust's board chairwoman is Diana L. Taylor, Mayor Bloomberg's live-in companion.
Hudson River Park grew out of the ill-fated proposal to build Westway, a superhighway, on 200 acres of landfill along the West Side.
State and city officials in 1998 estimated the park's cost at $300 million -- within a year, that had jumped to $370 million -- and its completion date as 2003. The city and the state have already put in $340 million in capital funds, and the trust says another $200 million is needed to finish the public areas of the park. Fourteen years after it began, the park is 70 percent complete.
The cost of caring for structures built on or over water is enormous because they are constantly subjected to battering by tides, winds, fungi and marine borers, problems largely unknown at landlocked properties. Indeed, the biggest hurdle in the park's development has been the piers themselves.
''It's far more expensive to replace, repair and take care of these piers than anyone anticipated,'' said Madelyn Wils, president and chief executive of the trust and a former executive vice president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. Ms. Wils said demolishing and replacing Pier 54, at West 13th Street, where the wood pilings are severely deteriorated, would cost $33 million; constructing its planned amenities would cost an additional $30 million.
Pier 40, at Houston Street, is even more problematic. The 14-acre pier has thousands of steel pilings that are severely corroded; a recent estimate for their repair came in at $80 million to $90 million.
Pier 40 also happens to be one of the piers designated for commercial development, with revenues to cover park maintenance. The others include Chelsea Piers and Pier 57, at West 15th Street, where plans are moving ahead for an urban market fashioned from recycled shipping containers, as well as a rooftop park.
The annual budget for routine maintenance at the park is $15 million, a figure Ms. Wils says has not grown despite a doubling of the landscaped areas in recent years. Almost half of the $15 million comes from fees at the covered parking area on Pier 40 -- revenue that is now threatened by a leaky roof.
''Part of the challenge is how to put together a plan for successful private investment and appropriate redevelopment when you're basing that thinking on quicksand,'' said Vin Cipolla, president of the Municipal Art Society, a nonprofit group dedicated to planning and preservation, and one of 29 members of a new Hudson River Park task force. ''There has to be public investment, and the leadership will have to come from the governor. Otherwise we'll just see more deterioration.''
The task force, formed by the trust in December, is charged with looking at the fiscal challenges confronting the park and considering possible amendments to the state law that established it.
That legislation was highly specific -- some say restrictive -- in terms of the sorts of commercial activity allowed in the park, with prohibitions on hotels, offices, housing and casinos, as well as limits on the length of leases.
''We want to make changes so we can move ahead and finish building this park,'' Ms. Wils said. ''This is not an impossible task, but we can no longer sit around and say, 'What do we do with Pier 40?' We need to take action.''
The trust also hopes to step up private fund-raising, taking a page from the successful campaign of the nearby High Line park. The Chelsea Piers lawsuit may make that task even more difficult.
The suit describes the dire state of Chelsea's wood pilings, arguing that the company has already spent $16 million on ''necessary emergency repair work.'' It contends, as it has several times in the past, that the Hudson River Park Trust has a legal obligation to pay for the rehabilitation of the pilings.
Executives and officials of the piers and the trust were reluctant to discuss the issue because the lawsuit is pending. A spokesman for the trust would say only that it would vigorously defend itself.
The mayor's office played down the dispute. ''This is a good-faith disagreement between the two parties, which is what judges and courts are for,'' Stu Loeser, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said.
Chelsea Piers, which currently pays $3.5 million a year in rent, opened in 1995, three years before the State Legislature created the Hudson River Park. In the late 1990s, Chelsea Piers asked for a rent rebate to pay for pier repairs.
After the trust rebuffed its demands, Mr. Betts went directly to Mr. Pataki, who was then the governor, and won a five-year rent rebate for pier repairs, beginning in 2004, that was worth $2.5 million. The trust insisted, however, that the rebate ''should not be viewed as a waiver, modification or concession by the trust to any of the terms and conditions of your lease.'' The lease states that Chelsea Piers is required ''to make all repairs,'' structural and nonstructural.
But the lease also contains an exception: The state will use its best efforts to include Chelsea Piers in any comprehensive, government-sponsored rehabilitation of the Hudson River piers.
Mr. Betts and Chelsea Piers Management contended in the suit that contrary to the lease, the complex had been wrongfully excluded from a multibillion-dollar effort by the city and the trust to rehabilitate the Hudson River waterfront.
To defend itself, the trust hired Randy M. Mastro, who was a deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration and over the past seven years has served as the go-to lawyer for companies suing the Bloomberg administration. He has a reputation as a fierce and combative litigator.
In his response to the lawsuit, Mr. Mastro argues that there is no ''comprehensive plan'' to repair all the piers on Manhattan's Hudson River waterfront. Indeed, the trust's motion states that only about one-third of all the piers on the river have been scheduled for construction work by the trust. The trust also says the cost of repairing the pilings at Chelsea Piers could reach $100 million.
''And now, unable to obtain any further subsidies from its public landlord,'' the trust says in its brief, ''Chelsea Piers belatedly sues as its 'last gasp' effort to avoid its contractual repair obligations, and in the process, threatens to bankrupt a public corporation charged with the development and stewardship of the most acclaimed public park in New York City since Central Park.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Hudson River Park near West 12th Street, above. The park, which stretches five miles along the Manhattan waterfront, is now 70 percent complete.
Chelsea Piers, a sports and entertainment complex that opened in 1995, rents space in Hudson River Park for $3.5 million a year. Its piers have been eaten away, leading it to sue over their maintenance.(A19)
 Chelsea Piers, a tenant, sued in November for money to repair damage by marine borers to wood pilings supporting the piers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A24) CHART: Numbers Gone Gloomy: The Hudson River Park Trust has formed a task force to look at the fiscal challenges now confronting it.(A19) MAP: The Hudson River Park grew out of the ill-fated proposal to build Westway, a superhighway.(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LANDFILLS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (65%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1273 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: In the Top 1% -- but of Taxpayers, Not Income

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
In the many years I've been paying income taxes, I've never actually done the math to calculate my tax rate. Until now.
After all, Debbie Bosanek, Warren Buffett's secretary, earned a seat in the limelight next to the first lady, Michelle Obama, at the State of the Union address for paying what ABC News reported was a tax rate of 35.8 percent. It isn't clear what Ms. Bosanek meant by 35.8 percent -- whether that's her marginal federal tax rate or total tax rate, or whether she included the Nebraska state income tax.
At the other end of the spectrum, the Republican candidate Mitt Romney released his 2010 tax returns that showed he paid federal income tax of just over $3 million, 13.9 percent of his adjusted gross income of $21.7 million, or 17.5 percent of his taxable income of $17.1 million.
So with all the focus on tax rates, I sat down with my 2010 returns, calculator in hand. I'm still reeling from the results. 
I paid 24 percent of my adjusted gross income in federal taxes and 37 percent in combined federal, state and local income taxes. I paid 49 percent of my taxable income in federal income tax, and 74 percent of my taxable income in combined federal, state and local income taxes. My totals include federal payroll and self-employment taxes.
When I reported the results to a few prominent tax experts, they were initially incredulous. ''That's very, very high,'' said Robert Willens, a tax lawyer. ''Congratulations.''
A few people said I should run for president, but being in the upper 1 percent of taxpayers is probably a dubious distinction. ''It's embarrassing to have too low a tax rate, but equally embarrassing to have one too high,'' said Mr. Willens, who's also an adjunct professor at the Columbia Business School. ''You want to be in the sweet spot where the president is, which is 26 percent or so. You're not a sap, but you're not exploiting loopholes.''
It turns out that my individual circumstances are a near-perfect storm of punitive tax policies. Nearly all my income is earned, as opposed to capital gains, carried interest or dividend income taxed at a lower rate.
I live in New York City, where I pay some of the highest state and local taxes in the nation. My mortgage deduction is small relative to my adjusted gross income, so it doesn't help me much.
Because I have nonemployee income, like book royalties, I also pay the unincorporated business tax on top of other income taxes, which costs me an additional 5 percent of adjusted gross income. And because my deductions are high relative to my total income, mostly because of the state and local income taxes I pay, I'm hit hard by the alternative minimum tax.
''There's not a whole lot you can do about any of that,'' Mr. Willens said. ''Capital gains and investment income taxes are capped at 15 percent, so the larger the percentage of your income attributable to those items, the lower your tax rate will be. Could you convert some of your ordinary income into tax-favored income? It's very hard for someone in your circumstances.''
Leonard Burman, a tax expert and a professor of public affairs at the Maxwell School of Syracuse University, agreed. ''The fact is, if you're working for a living, it's not possible. What you need is some carried interest, but that's going to be pretty hard for someone like you. Maybe you could get The New York Times to pay you in stock options.''
Both agreed that I could move from New York to somewhere like Alaska, Nevada or South Dakota, the states with the lowest state tax burdens, according to the Tax Foundation, a research group. (New Jersey, New York and Connecticut have the highest tax burdens.) But apart from the fact that much of my work is based in New York, I like living here, and it seems perverse to have worked hard all my life only to be forced into exile. In that case, Mr. Willens said, ''moving may not be an attractive option.''
One tax break that benefited both me and Mr. Romney is the deduction for charitable contributions. I gave 25 percent of my adjusted gross income, while Mr. Romney gave 18.5 percent. My tax rate as a percentage of adjusted gross income would have been higher without the deduction.
Mr. Burman said that he, too, was shocked when he calculated his tax rate, which was high. ''I keep reminding myself that paying taxes is a sign I'm doing well and I shouldn't complain. But the inequity is galling.''
Both singled out the unfairness of the alternative minimum tax, originally enacted to ensure that the wealthy paid their fair share of taxes, but which has increasingly hit middle-class taxpayers while having little or no effect on the ultra-wealthy. The A.M.T. added just $233,000, or 8 percent, to Mr. Romney's federal tax bill. It added 40 percent to mine. According to the Tax Policy Center at the Brookings Institution, 51.7 percent of taxpayers reporting incomes of $200,000 to $500,000 paid the alternative minimum tax in 2012, while just 41.6 percent of taxpayers reporting more than $1 million did.
When a temporary cap on the A.M.T. expires this year, the group projects that those percentages will rise to 93.7 percent for taxpayers reporting income of $200,000 to $500,000 and just over 50 percent for those reporting more than $1 million. And barring Congressional action, 45.3 percent of taxpayers earning $75,000 to $100,000 will be snared. People with large families who live in high tax states tend to be especially hard hit.
The alternative minimum tax remains in effect even though there seems to be bipartisan agreement that it is an abomination, and despite repeated recommendations that it be abolished or substantially reformed. Mr. Burman was a deputy assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy in the Clinton administration. ''The one policy triumph I had while I was at Treasury was a proposal to cut the A.M.T. on a permanent basis,'' he said. ''But nothing happened,'' largely because it's expected to generate over $1 trillion in revenue over the next decade, revenue that would have to be offset by budget cuts or new taxes or some combination of the two.
Equally rankling to many is New York City's unincorporated business tax, which is ''charged to every individual or unincorporated entity carrying on a trade, business or profession -- in whole or part -- in New York City,'' according to the New York City Department of Finance. ''I despise it,'' Mr. Willens said. (As head of his own firm, Robert Willens L.L.C. in New York City, he pays the tax.) ''You've already paid federal, state and local income tax on the same income. It's double taxation. It's odious. I hate it. The self-employed are supposed to be the backbone of the economy. They're treated very harshly. I guess there's no organized lobby for the self-employed.''
Mayor Michael Bloomberg has proposed cutting or eliminating the tax (and city residents paying the tax now get a small credit). But, like the alternative minimum tax, it has proved impervious to serious change, presumably because it generates too much revenue.
The experts I consulted were unanimous that the only hope for a more equitable tax burden was sweeping tax reform. Given the myriad inequities and perverse consequences embedded in the current tax code, it would seem an alluring opportunity for presidential candidates, and some of the Republicans have made tax policy a centerpiece of their campaigns. But so far no one, including President Obama, has come forward with a credible plan that addresses the inequities while confronting the realities of the federal deficit.
''The State of the Union address was horrible on tax policy,'' Mr. Burman said. ''The so-called Buffett rule, to make sure millionaires pay a 30 percent rate, is just another version of the A.M.T. And the idea of taxing at a higher rate corporations who build plants outside the U.S.? That's going to be a mess. I wouldn't want to be doing tax planning when that kicks in. Maybe we don't care about inequity or inefficiency, but we should. What we need is substantial tax reform.''
And the Republican candidates, Mr. Burman said, are ''basically advocating tax cuts for rich people. Their proposals are even more regressive than the Bush tax cuts and current law. And they're all in complete denial about the budget situation.'' According to the Center for Tax Policy, Mr. Romney's tax proposals would lower federal tax revenue by $600 billion in 2015, and would increase after-tax income for those earning more than $1 million by 14.5 percent, the largest gain for any income level. According to the Urban Institute's resident fellow Howard Gleckman, Mr. Gingrich's even more generous tax proposals would lower federal tax revenue by nearly $1.3 trillion in 2015.
The solution, according to Mr. Burman, is relatively straightforward: a return to the principles of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 championed by Ronald Reagan. ''Broaden the base, lower overall tax rates, and tax capital gains and unearned income at the same level as ordinary income,'' Mr. Burman said.
I don't resent Mr. Romney's millions or his low tax rate. As Mr. Buffett pointed out, he didn't write the tax code he's now taking advantage of. But maybe we can learn something more important from people who aren't household names or members of the Forbes 400. I'd like to hear from more hard-working people like Ms. Bosanek who are paying high rates. I'd like to feature them in a future column, so if you're one of them, contact me at taxstewart@gmail.com
I'd especially like to hear from anyone who pays a higher total income tax rate than I do. I'd like to dispel the unlikely but not entirely implausible possibility that I might be paying the single highest tax rate in the country.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this column incorrectly listed interest, rather than carried interest, among types of income taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Debbie Bosanek, of Berkshire Hathaway, and Mitt Romney both have lower effective tax rates than this columnist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/A.P.
PAUL J. RICHARDS/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 The alternative minimum tax added 8 percent to Mitt Romney's federal taxes. It added 40 percent to James B. Stewart's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME TAX (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (54%); LAWYERS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (86%); WARREN BUFFETT (72%); MICHELLE OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1274 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Obama Buttresses Case for U.S. Resilience With Book From Unlikely Source

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Senator Barack Obama was photographed clutching a copy of ''The Post-American World'' as he left his campaign plane during the Democratic primaries in May 2008, some critics viewed it as a telling sign that he embraced a view of the United States as a waning world power.
Now, as he runs for re-election, President Obama has latched on to a new foreign policy book, which offers a more appealing narrative for a leader facing fresh charges -- this time from Mitt Romney and the other Republican candidates -- that he is leading the United States into its twilight of global influence. 
The book, ''The World America Made,'' makes the case that the nation's decline is a myth, a reaction to the financial crisis of 2008 rather than to any genuine geopolitical shifts. In a delicious coincidence for the White House, the author is Robert Kagan, a neoconservative historian and commentator who advises Mr. Romney. The president has brandished Mr. Kagan's analysis in arguing that the nation's power has waxed rather than waned.
The truth about the United States' place in the world, of course, is more complex than either Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney would portray it in the heat of a political campaign. The United States is not the unchallenged global power that it was after the fall of the Soviet Union, most foreign policy experts agree. And China, which is on track to have the world's largest economy by 2030, will soon be a genuine rival.
The United States also faces a host of problems -- global security obligations, towering debt, a tattered education system and economic growth -- all of which have the potential to sap its resources and power.
Yet every other country, including China, has problems that are arguably as serious, if not more so. And as Mr. Kagan chronicles with numbers and history, the United States remains the world's dominant power by virtually every benchmark, with a resilience that has belied earlier predictions of decline. The Soviet Union and Japan, he notes, both appeared poised to overtake the United States at various points.
Although they may disagree about prescriptions for ensuring American primacy, most conservative and liberal analysts agree that the United States has the strength to remain the world's leading power for decades. That message has permeated the White House, where aides say that Mr. Obama has been determined to rebut the Republican critique about a declining America since before excerpts of Mr. Kagan's book appeared in The New Republic magazine. The book will be published on Feb. 14.
In his State of the Union address on Tuesday, Mr. Obama struck an optimistic, almost Reaganesque tone, proclaiming that ''America is back.''
''The renewal of American leadership can be felt across the globe,'' the president said, listing what he said were renewed alliances, a commitment to nuclear nonproliferation, an effective counterterrorism strategy, a stronger presence in Asia, and even the recent diplomatic opening to Myanmar.
''Anyone who tells you otherwise,'' Mr. Obama said, clearly alluding to Mr. Romney, ''anyone who tells you that America is in decline or that our influence has waned; doesn't know what they're talking about.''
For a Democratic president facing re-election, there are clear political imperatives at play. Since at least 1972, when Richard M. Nixon accused George McGovern of being a defeatist and an isolationist, Republicans have sought, with somewhat consistent success, to tar Democrats for not adequately projecting American power.
''This is a potent issue in American politics, and has been for a long time,'' the presidential scholar Michael Beschloss said. ''A Democratic president who does not defend himself on this, woe betide him.''
Mr. Romney, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republican candidates have certainly made it a recurring theme during the campaign, arguing that not only is Mr. Obama skeptical of the notion of American ''exceptionalism,'' but that he is pursuing policies that will hasten America's irrelevance.
''Our president thinks America is in decline,'' Mr. Romney said in Iowa last month, in a typical example of the attack. ''It is, if he's president. It's not, if I'm president. This is going to be an American century.''
Nevertheless, Mr. Obama may be less vulnerable than previous Democratic presidents were, Mr. Beschloss and other analysts argued, because he has pursued an unexpectedly muscular foreign policy, particularly in counterterrorism. Some argue that he has been successful because he has recognized that in a world of other rising powers, the United States must lead in concert with others.
''Obama has managed to use effective diplomacy to enhance American influence,'' said Fareed Zakaria, the CNN and Time commentator who wrote ''The Post-American World.'' But, he added, ''it will be more and more difficult to maintain American influence without American power.''
Even though Mr. Zakaria draws different conclusions and offers different remedies than Mr. Kagan does, they agree that today's world, which both say is more peaceful and prosperous than at any time in history, is a triumph of the American system. In an interview on Friday, Mr. Kagan credited Mr. Zakaria for tapping into ''a really strong feeling'' about the emergence of new powers, like China and India.
''My concern is that the general public has accepted the idea that the U.S. is in decline,'' he said. ''You can see it in both parties.''
The president's embrace of his ideas has made life a bit uncomfortable for Mr. Kagan, even if it has generated buzz. He emphasized that he disagreed with elements of Mr. Obama's foreign policy. He believes, for example, that the United States should not have withdrawn all its troops from Iraq, and he says the president's emphasis on building up the American presence in Asia has left allies in Europe questioning where they stand.
Mr. Kagan, who is listed as one of 24 special advisers to the Romney campaign on foreign policy, said, ''Romney is expressing concern, which I think is justified, that the wrong policies can lead us into decline.'' As for Mr. Obama's role in perpetuating the notion of American decline, Mr. Kagan said, ''sometimes he has fought hard against it, and sometimes he has unwittingly contributed to it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); WRITERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); HISTORY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1275 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Lunar Colonies, Lunacy and Losses

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Newt Gingrich is spaced-out. Literally.
Anyone who remembers him from his days as speaker of the House in the '90s remembers how erratic, unpredictable and off-the-wall he could be, but, so far, this campaign season he has managed to conceal his many absurdities and eccentricities.
Furthermore, many Republican primary voters seem willing to forgive and forget his past. Others seem not even to remember it. He has been able to pass himself off as a wise elder statesman -- a historian without a history -- able to capture the anger and anxiety of the right and articulate it with force, lucidity and gravitas. 
Oh, it is to laugh! That is if you're on the left.
But for those on the right with firsthand knowledge of working with Gingrich when he was in Washington, this is a nightmare scenario. The outside possibility that Gingrich could win the nomination and wreck the party scares them to death. Their panic over this has reached a fever pitch.
And this is not without merit.
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released this week found that Gingrich now enjoys a 9-point lead nationally among registered Republican likely primary voters. However, Gingrich fared worse than all other Republican candidates when tested against Obama. The poll suggested that Obama would trounce Gingrich by 18 points.
(Luckily for Mitt Romney, Gingrich's surge in Florida may be fizzling. A Quinnipiac poll of likely Republican voters in that state found that Romney leads Gingrich by nine percentage points. If that holds, Romney and the establishment Republicans will have dodged a bullet like Neo in ''The Matrix.'' A Romney loss in Florida would call his candidacy into question and send the party scrambling for a more attractive replacement.)
One of the latest establishment Republicans to try to avert the Gingrich catastrophe is former Senator Bob Dole, who wrote a letter to the Romney campaign on Thursday saying: ''I have not been critical of Newt Gingrich, but it is now time to take a stand before it is too late.'' It only got better from there. Dole continued, ''hardly anyone who served with Newt in Congress has endorsed him, and that fact speaks for itself. He was a one-man-band who rarely took advice.''
Dole's concern in his statement, and the concern of countless others, is: ''If Gingrich is the nominee it will have an adverse impact on Republican candidates running for county, state and federal offices.''
As Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster, told MSNBC, ''Gingrich is Goldwater.'' He continued, ''In the general election, Gingrich not only takes down his ship, he takes down the whole flotilla.''
Part of the reason for this is Gingrich is thoroughly unlikable among the electorate at large and utterly nonsensical in his approach to real problem-solving. The fact that he has convinced some primary voters that he is an intellectual is one of the best electoral sleights of hand I can recall. As Dole said of Newt when he was in Washington: ''Gingrich had a new idea every minute, and most of them were off the wall.''
To that point, Gingrich told a crowd on Florida's so-called Space Coast on Wednesday that ''by the end of my second term, we will have the first permanent base on the Moon. And it will be American.'' And he said that he would push for the introduction of a ''Northwest Ordinance for Space'' so that when the number of colonists reached 13,000, they could petition for statehood.
(By the way, I find it interesting that Gingrich didn't insist on answering the question about Puerto Rican statehood at Thursday's debate, yet he's advocating for a state on the Moon. Earth to Newt: phone home.)
In the speech, Gingrich implied that he was ''bold'' and ''romantic'' and called himself ''visionary'' and ''grandiose'' in the vein of Abraham Lincoln, John F. Kennedy and the Wright brothers. Gingrich is a virtual supernova of megalomaniacal madness.
In a way, the space speech made sense. Gingrich was doing what he does: tossing out random ideas like darts at a board, hoping to score. He was repackaging the idea of Manifest Destiny for the Moon and appealing to an area of the country whose pride and purpose were wounded by the ending of the space shuttle program.
But, on the other hand, this is exactly the kind of election-year lunacy that establishment Republicans have been worrying about. Florida has one of the highest state unemployment rates in the country and has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country. The last thing that people who can't hold on to their jobs and houses here on Earth want to hear about is a colony on the Moon. The whole thing bespeaks a man detached from the real world concerns of real people.
As Dole's statement went on to say, ''In my opinion, if we want to avoid an Obama landslide in November, Republicans should nominate Governor Romney as our standard-bearer.''
The truth is that the Republican Party has no good choice at this point. It only has bad choices and worse choices. And the American public is beginning to recognize that. As the Republican courtiers of incompetence beat up each other, knock down each other and reveal each other's flaws, a number of recent surveys have found that President Obama's poll numbers on a number of metrics have begun to trend upward.
That's because an election is a choice, a zero-sum game -- the worse the Republican field looks, particularly if Gingrich is at the front of it, the better President Obama looks by comparison, regardless of one's misgivings about his first term.
Establishment Republicans understand this simple, painful truth: Romney is no guarantee of victory, but Gingrich is an absolute guarantee of defeat. At least here on Earth.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Ray of Light for Romney In the Sunshine State: Percentage of likely Republican primary voters answering either Newt Gingrich or Mitt Romney. (Source: Quinnipiac University Poll of 580 Republican likely primary voters conducted Jan. 24-26, 2012.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); HISTORY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1276 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Science Desk; POLITICAL SCIENCE THE QUESTION OF SPACE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: In Visions of a Moon Colony, Technology Is the Easy Part

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
Could the United States establish a moon colony and develop a new propulsion system for going to Mars? All within eight years of a Newt Gingrich presidency, as Mr. Gingrich promised this week?
The answers seem to be technologically yes, economically iffy and politically very difficult.
In proposing an ambitious vision for space, Mr. Gingrich stepped into the eternal debate over where the nation's and NASA's priorities should lie. Mr. Gingrich spoke little about NASA's unmanned missions, which many think produce better science with less money. Inspiration and economic frontiers, not science, drive his long-standing enthusiasm for space. 
''I come at space from a standpoint of a romantic belief that it really is part of our destiny,'' Mr. Gingrich said in his speech on Wednesday. He joked about a legislative proposal, early in his Congressional career, that a moon colony could apply for statehood once its population reached 13,000.
Not surprisingly, at a debate on Thursday, Mr. Gingrich's Republican opponents lambasted a moon colony as a loony, budget-busting idea in a time of fiscal austerity.
Mitt Romney said he thought a moon base would cost hundred of billions of dollars or more. ''I'd rather be rebuilding housing here in the U.S.,'' he said.
Ron Paul quipped, ''I think we maybe should send some politicians up there.''
The smallest hurdle is technology. After all, sending astronauts back to the moon by 2020 and setting up a permanent home there was the goal of the last Republican president, George W. Bush, and NASA had embarked on developing new rockets and spacecraft to accomplish that. Few doubted that, given enough money and time, NASA would be able to duplicate its success of more than 40 years ago.
A permanent moon base could adapt technologies used in building the International Space Station. NASA was also developing an R.V.-like lunar vehicle where astronauts could drive around the surface of the Moon for weeks at a time.
But money was the problem. When the program, known as Constellation, did not receive as much financing as originally promised, development fell behind, pushing up the price tag. A review of experts concluded that it would cost $150 billion for Constellation to reach its destination close to the original schedule. The Obama administration instead canceled it.
A new NASA program similar to Constellation with brand new rockets would be similarly expensive. But a recent NASA study concluded that the space agency could use smaller existing rockets, coupled with fueling stations in orbit, to reach the Moon within a decade.
A new propulsion system for going to Mars would likely call for reviving old technology -- nuclear-powered rocket engines that were originally developed in the 1950s. NASA has already begun work on nuclear propulsion -- nuclear reactors that provide continuous thrust -- but lacks the money to finish.
But Mr. Gingrich talked of overturning the status quo at NASA, pushing to work faster, to accept greater risks and let private companies take the lead role.
''It's not something that should be mocked or should be seen as a remote possibility,'' said Michael Gold, director of the Washington office of Bigelow Aerospace, a private space company. ''The reason this is both possible and economically viable is that many of the systems and technology, if not all, already exist.''
Bigelow, using technology licensed from NASA, has plans to launch two inflatable space stations, capable of housing 36 people, and the same technology could be scaled up to provide living quarters on the moon.
Mr. Gingrich proposed setting aside about 10 percent of NASA's budget for prizes, similar to the $25,000 that Charles Lindbergh won for being the first to fly across the Atlantic, or, more recently, the $10 million X Prize for commercial spacecraft to rise above the 62-mile-high edge of space.
Over eight years, this would create a prize pot of more than $14 billion. Mr. Gingrich suggested offering a $10 billion prize for the first venture to make a trip to Mars. If no one succeeds, taxpayers pay nothing. If someone does, $10 billion would be cheaper, by a factor of 10 or 100, than any government-run program.
Large aerospace companies like Boeing and Lockheed Martin would likely pass on the prizes -- it would be a tough sell to investors when the payoff could be nothing at all -- but Mr. Gingrich's allies, including Bob Walker, a former Republican congressman from Pennsylvania, believe that technology billionaires like Jeffrey Bezos, founder of Amazon.com, and Paul Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft, would willingly invest their own money in hopes of fame, if not fortune.
Whether any of these ideas could win enough political support is another question. When Mr. Obama called for the cancellation of Constellation, he proposed that NASA rely much more on commercial companies in the future, echoing many of the same themes that Mr. Gingrich is advocating. Mr. Gingrich even wrote an opinion piece lauding Mr. Obama's proposed plans.
However, Mr. Gingrich, a longtime space enthusiast, seems more likely to spend the political capital to push his proposals. Charles Miller, formerly a senior adviser at NASA for commercial space, said all of the pieces of Mr. Gingrich's space plans were plausible if not fleshed out.
''The improbable thing at this point is if Newt will become president,'' he said.
What a Moon Colony Would Require
* Rockets capable of carrying astronauts and cargo to the moon. NASA is developing a new heavy-lift rocket. Newt Gingrich suggests smaller existing rockets could suffice. But smaller rockets would make the mission more complicated because moon-lander pieces would have to be assembled in orbit, as was the Space Station.
* A spacecraft that can land on the moon. Such a craft does not exist, but no big technology leaps are needed since NASA did this more than 40 years ago when astronauts landed on the moon. For a permanent base, a larger craft would be needed to ferry the pieces.
* Habitats where the astronauts would live. Years ago, NASA began preliminary designs but did not progress far before the program was canceled. A commercial company, Bigelow Aerospace, believes its technology of inflatable modules can be adapted for lunar habitats.
Anything built on the moon would have to withstand the sharp-edged lunar dust and large temperature swings, which go from -200 to +200 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Question of Space: This is the third in a series of articles about the intersection of politics and science. Earlier articles examined an anti-abortion initiative to declare fertilized eggs to be ''persons'' and the impact of Michelle Bachman's views on a vaccine to prevent cervical cancer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bringing back trips to the moon, like this Apollo 17 mission, would have financial hurdles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA)
Tests of NASA space exploration vehicles in Arizona in 2010 simulated moon conditions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A model of a moon base by Bigelow Aerospace, which says it is not a far-fetched idea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SPACE PROPULSION (89%); SPACE STATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); SPACE INDUSTRY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RON PAUL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (94%); MARS (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1277 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: If You Didn't Catch It the First Time

 BODY:
Through more than 20 Republican presidential debates, candidates have returned to some phrases over and over and over again. More examples are available at nytimes.com/politics.
NEWT GINGRICH
Mr. Romney is the only other candidate to mention American Express in a debate.
OUTSOURCING 
Sept. 7
We ought to control the border. We ought to have a legal guest worker program. We ought to outsource it, frankly, to American Express, Visa and MasterCard so there's no counterfeiting, which there will be with the federal government.
Sept. 22
We'd be far better off to outsource E-Verify to American Express, MasterCard or Visa because they actually know how to run a program like that without massive fraud.
Nov. 5
American Express pays .03 of 1 percent of its gross revenue to crooks ... So you as a citizen are 330 times as likely to pay a crook through the federal government as you are through your American Express card.
I mean, if you simply passed a bill in Congress that said, 60 days from now we're contracting out to American Express, Visa and MasterCard and IBM to create a consortium. They're going to handle all payments.
Jan. 19
Fifth, I favor a guest worker program, and I would outsource it to American Express, Visa or MasterCard, because they can run it without fraud and the federal government's hopeless.
Jan. 26
You should have a guest worker program, probably run by American Express, Visa or MasterCard, so they minimize fraud, which the federal government won't do, and you should have much stronger employer penalties at that point because you canvalidate it.
MITT ROMNEY
LIFE AS AN INVESTMENT
June 13
I spent my life in the private sector, 25 years.
Sept. 12
I spent my life in the private sector. I understand how jobs come to America and why they go. And I want to use that experience to get America growing again...
I spent my life in the private sector. I've competed with companies around the world.
Sept. 22
I love this country. I spent my life in the private sector, not in government. I only spent four years as a governor. I didn't inhale. I'm a business guy.
I'm a conservative businessman. I haven't spent my life in politics, I spent my life in business. I know how jobs come, how jobs go.
Oct. 11
I'm not going to have to call up Timothy Geithner and say how does the economy work, because I've spent my life in the economy.
I would not be in this race had I spent my life in politics alone. Nothing wrong with that, of course.
Oct. 18
I believe that, having spent my life in the private sector, having actually created jobs is what allows me to have the kind of support that's going to allow me to replace President Obama and get the country on the right track again.
Dec. 10
Well, having spent my life in the private sector, I understand where jobs are created.
I spent my life in the private sector. I understand how the economy works.
If I would have been able to get in the N.F.L., like I hoped when I was a kid, why, I would have been a football star all my life too. But I -- I spent my life in the private sector.
Dec. 15
I spent my life, my career in the private sector.
RON PAUL
POLICEMAN STATE
Sept. 12
There's no authority in the Constitution to be the policeman of the world, and no nation building.
Dec. 10
We have to quit the spending. We have to quit this being the policeman of the world. We don't need another war in Syria and another war in Iran.
You know, if we took that oath of office seriously in Washington, we'd get rid of 80 percent of the government, the budget would be balanced, we'd have sound money and we would have prosperity and we wouldn't be the policeman of the world.
This idea that we can be the policeman of the world and settle all these disputes -- I mean, soon we'll have to quit because we're flat-out broke ...
Dec. 15
I emphasize civil liberties. I emphasize a pro-American foreign policy, which is a lot different than policeman of the world. I emphasize, you know, monetary policy ...
Jan. 19
We could work our way out of here and take care of these people on -- with these medical needs, but we can't do it with the current philosophy of the government taking care of everybody forever on medical care, cradle to grave, and being the policeman of the world.
Jan. 23
... the role of government ought to be to protect liberty. It's not to run a welfare state and not to be the policeman of the world.
RICK SANTORUM
No other candidate has mentioned his grandfather in a debate, but both Herman Cain and Mr. Gingrich have referred to themselves as grandfathers.
THIRD GENERATION
June 13
My grandfather came to this country .... He didn't come here because he was guaranteed a government benefit. He came here because he wanted freedom.
Sept. 7
But we want them to come here like my grandfather and my father came here. They made sacrifices. They came in the 1920s. There were no promises. There were no government benefits. They came because they wanted to be free ...
Sept. 12
My father and grandfather came to this country not speaking a word of English. But it was the greatest gift to my father to have to learn English so he could assimilate ...
Nov. 9
... opportunities for everyone in America, including those that don't have that college skill set. People who built this country, like my grandfather who was a coal miner.
Jan. 7
You also -- I also work for a coal company. As I mentioned the other day, my grandfather was a coal miner. I grew up in the coal region.
Jan. 19
Well, I come at it from -- as being the -- the son of an immigrant. And my grandfather came to this country and brought my dad when he was 7 years old. And that's the story that I -- that I love, am familiar with ...
Jan. 23
Our country -- my father came to this country, my grandfather came to this country. He left my dad behind for five years.
Jan. 26
People come to this country. My grandfather came to this country because he wanted to come to a country that respected him, and a country that respects you is a country that lives by the laws that they have.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEWT GINGRICH
MITT ROMNEY
RON PAUL
 RICK SANTORUM CHART (Source: Federal News Service transcripts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (57%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (95%); VISA INC (94%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (95%); V (NYSE) (94%); AXP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (94%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1278 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Setting a Fair Down Payment

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Requiring a minimum down payment of 20 percent, or even 10 percent, on home loans would push many creditworthy borrowers into higher-cost loans or out of the mortgage market entirely, a new study says.
Possible down-payment requirements are part of a debate in Congress and among a cluster of federal regulatory agencies, as they develop new rules for mortgage lenders following the housing crash.
As part of the reforms mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial law, the agencies (including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation., the Federal Reserve, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, among others) have proposed criteria for what constitutes a reasonably safe, high-quality mortgage--a ''qualified residential mortgage,'' or Q.R.M., in regulatory lingo. 
Lenders issuing such mortgages will be able to sell them to private investors and avoid retaining any of the risk associated with a default of the loan on their own books. Loans that don't meet the standards will be considered riskier, so the lender will have to retain 5 percent ownership. The goal is to encourage banks to thoroughly vet a borrower's ability to repay the loan.
The agencies have proposed, among other requirements, that mortgages must have a down payment of 20 percent to meet the definition. This has raised concerns among lenders, builders and housing advocates that such a requirement will unnecessarily hobble a healthy part of the housing market.
(Loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration, which can be obtained with small down payments, are exempt from the ''qualified residential mortgage'' mandates. Loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage companies that are the biggest players in the secondary mortgage market, are exempt. But the concern is that the new definition of a ''safe'' mortgage eventually will become the standard, applicable to loans backed by Fannie and Freddie too, said Kathleen Day, a spokeswoman for the nonprofit Center for Responsible Lending.)
To see what impact tougher rules for down payments and other criteria might have on borrowers, the University of North Carolina's Center for Community Capital, Wayne State University and the Center for Responsible Lending examined home purchase loans issued before the housing bubble burst. In part, researchers examined mortgages issued from 2004-8 that were in good standing as of last February.
The researchers found that imposing a 10 percent down payment requirement would eliminate 38 percent of creditworthy borrowers from the traditional mortgage market and that at a 20 percent down payment threshold, 61 percent would be excluded. The report also found that such down payment requirements disproportionately affect blacks and Latinos.
The added benefit of reduced foreclosures, the study found, did not ''necessarily outweigh the costs of reducing borrowers' access'' to mortgages.
Simply restricting access to the riskiest type of loans that caused big problems during the housing mess, like interest-only loans or those issued with no income documentation, would reduce defaults while making loans available to a broader pool of creditworthy borrowers, the study found.
''While higher down payments do result in fewer defaults, the payoff is small relative to the number of creditworthy households who could be shut out of the market, the study shows,'' said a statement from the Center for Responsible Lending.
Do you think a mandatory 10 percent or 20 percent down payment is reasonable, even if it bars otherwise creditworthy borrowers from qualifying for a home loan?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); CITIES (55%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1279 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL SCIENCE THE QUESTION OF SPACE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: In Visions of a Moon Colony, Technology Is the Easy Part

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
Could the United States establish a moon colony and develop a new propulsion system for going to Mars? All within eight years of a Newt Gingrich presidency, as Mr. Gingrich promised this week?
The answers seem to be technologically yes, economically iffy and politically very difficult.
In proposing an ambitious vision for space, Mr. Gingrich stepped into the eternal debate over where the nation's and NASA's priorities should lie. Mr. Gingrich spoke little about NASA's unmanned missions, which many think produce better science with less money. Inspiration and economic frontiers, not science, drive his long-standing enthusiasm for space. 
''I come at space from a standpoint of a romantic belief that it really is part of our destiny,'' Mr. Gingrich said in his speech on Wednesday. He joked about a legislative proposal, early in his Congressional career, that a moon colony could apply for statehood once its population reached 13,000.
Not surprisingly, at a debate on Thursday, Mr. Gingrich's Republican opponents lambasted a moon colony as a loony, budget-busting idea in a time of fiscal austerity.
Mitt Romney said he thought a moon base would cost hundred of billions of dollars or more. ''I'd rather be rebuilding housing here in the U.S.,'' he said.
Ron Paul quipped, ''I think we maybe should send some politicians up there.''
The smallest hurdle is technology. After all, sending astronauts back to the moon by 2020 and setting up a permanent home there was the goal of the last Republican president, George W. Bush, and NASA had embarked on developing new rockets and spacecraft to accomplish that. Few doubted that, given enough money and time, NASA would be able to duplicate its success of more than 40 years ago.
A permanent moon base could adapt technologies used in building the International Space Station. NASA was also developing an R.V.-like lunar vehicle where astronauts could drive around the surface of the Moon for weeks at a time.
But money was the problem. When the program, known as Constellation, did not receive as much financing as originally promised, development fell behind, pushing up the price tag. A review of experts concluded that it would cost $150 billion for Constellation to reach its destination close to the original schedule. The Obama administration instead canceled it.
A new NASA program similar to Constellation with brand new rockets would be similarly expensive. But a recent NASA study concluded that the space agency could use smaller existing rockets, coupled with fueling stations in orbit, to reach the Moon within a decade.
A new propulsion system for going to Mars would likely call for reviving old technology -- nuclear-powered rocket engines that were originally developed in the 1950s. NASA has already begun work on nuclear propulsion -- nuclear reactors that provide continuous thrust -- but lacks the money to finish.
But Mr. Gingrich talked of overturning the status quo at NASA, pushing to work faster, to accept greater risks and let private companies take the lead role.
''It's not something that should be mocked or should be seen as a remote possibility,'' said Michael Gold, director of the Washington office of Bigelow Aerospace, a private space company. ''The reason this is both possible and economically viable is that many of the systems and technology, if not all, already exist.''
Bigelow, using technology licensed from NASA, has plans to launch two inflatable space stations, capable of housing 36 people, and the same technology could be scaled up to provide living quarters on the moon.
Mr. Gingrich proposed setting aside about 10 percent of NASA's budget for prizes, similar to the $25,000 that Charles Lindbergh won for being the first to fly across the Atlantic, or, more recently, the $10 million X Prize for commercial spacecraft to rise above the 62-mile-high edge of space.
Over eight years, this would create a prize pot of more than $14 billion. Mr. Gingrich suggested offering a $10 billion prize for the first venture to make a trip to Mars. If no one succeeds, taxpayers pay nothing. If someone does, $10 billion would be cheaper, by a factor of 10 or 100, than any government-run program.
Large aerospace companies like Boeing and Lockheed Martin would likely pass on the prizes -- it would be a tough sell to investors when the payoff could be nothing at all -- but Mr. Gingrich's allies, including Bob Walker, a former Republican congressman from Pennsylvania, believe that technology billionaires like Jeffrey Bezos, founder of Amazon.com, and Paul Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft, would willingly invest their own money in hopes of fame, if not fortune.
Whether any of these ideas could win enough political support is another question. When Mr. Obama called for the cancellation of Constellation, he proposed that NASA rely much more on commercial companies in the future, echoing many of the same themes that Mr. Gingrich is advocating. Mr. Gingrich even wrote an opinion piece lauding Mr. Obama's proposed plans.
However, Mr. Gingrich, a longtime space enthusiast, seems more likely to spend the political capital to push his proposals. Charles Miller, formerly a senior adviser at NASA for commercial space, said all of the pieces of Mr. Gingrich's space plans were plausible if not fleshed out.
''The improbable thing at this point is if Newt will become president,'' he said.
What a Moon Colony Would Require
* Rockets capable of carrying astronauts and cargo to the moon. NASA is developing a new heavy-lift rocket. Newt Gingrich suggests smaller existing rockets could suffice. But smaller rockets would make the mission more complicated because moon-lander pieces would have to be assembled in orbit, as was the Space Station.
* A spacecraft that can land on the moon. Such a craft does not exist, but no big technology leaps are needed since NASA did this more than 40 years ago when astronauts landed on the moon. For a permanent base, a larger craft would be needed to ferry the pieces.
* Habitats where the astronauts would live. Years ago, NASA began preliminary designs but did not progress far before the program was canceled. A commercial company, Bigelow Aerospace, believes its technology of inflatable modules can be adapted for lunar habitats.
Anything built on the moon would have to withstand the sharp-edged lunar dust and large temperature swings, which go from -200 to +200 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Question of Space: This is the third in a series of articles about the intersection of politics and science. Earlier articles examined an anti-abortion initiative to declare fertilized eggs to be ''persons'' and the impact of Michelle Bachman's views on a vaccine to prevent cervical cancer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bringing back trips to the moon, like this Apollo 17 mission, would have financial hurdles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA)
Tests of NASA space exploration vehicles in Arizona in 2010 simulated moon conditions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A model of a moon base by Bigelow Aerospace, which says it is not a far-fetched idea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SPACE PROPULSION (89%); SPACE STATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); SPACE INDUSTRY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RON PAUL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (94%); MARS (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1280 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Slap Shot)

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: White House Boycott Could Cost Bruins' Thomas

BYLINE: JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL


HIGHLIGHT: Boston goalie Tim Thomas declined to accompany his teammates on a recent visit to the White House. 

 BODY:
What a week it was for Tim Thomas, hockey's most consistently incandescent goalie. At the end of it, rumors were flying that Thomas's days with the Bruins - the team he led last season to the Stanley Cup - are numbered.
It all began Monday with Thomas, whose political beliefs were not widely known, boycotting the Bruins' visit to President Obama at the White House. Instead Thomas released a brief statement on his Facebook page that began, "I believe the Federal government has grown out of control, threatening the Rights, Liberties, and Property of the People."
Thomas faced a storm of criticism from commentators, fans and Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, but he received support from Tea Party types who admired his Glenn Beck-like disdain for both the Democratic and Republican parties. At the All-Star draft Thursday, Thomas reasserted his stand before reporters and a live television audience across the continent.
"I followed my conscience," he said. "Everything I said in my statement I believed to be the absolute truth."
Most reporters find it a treat to speak with Thomas after games. At 37, he is engaging, intelligent and thoughtful. He has spoken affectingly about growing up in straitened circumstances in and around economically devastated Flint, Mich.
He could have wound up with the political views of his fellow Davison High School alumnus, the left-wing documentarian Michael Moore. But instead Thomas is more in line with Ted Nugent, a fellow Michigan bow-hunter.
It was probably a tip-off last summer when Thomas was told that Moorewas a big admirer. Thomas had no reaction, a silence that, in retrospect, said a lot.
How odd it now seems that Thomas has spent his hockey career in places where his beliefs are distinctly in the minority: the University of Vermont; Finland; Sweden, where he made a name for himself after being ignored in North America; and finally Boston.
The last Boston sports figure to skip a White House visit was Red Sox General Manager Theo Epstein, who stayed away in 2008 during the presidency of George W. Bush, though he made no public statement. A Red Sox player, Manny Ramirez, sat that one out, too. But neither created the ruckus that Thomas's boycott has.
Beyond that, hockey players rarely boycott events for political reasons. The last before Thomas that anyone could recall was in 2002, when Owen Nolan, then the San Jose captain, skipped an exhibition game in Vancouver claiming a back injury. That meant he would not take a ceremonial face-off from Queen Elizabeth. As it happened, Nolan had family in Northern Ireland and held Irish republican views, but the whole thing unfolded quietly with no public statements.
Thomas's teammates were well aware of his political beliefs, and their public statements in the last week did not point to a rift in the Bruins dressing room.
"In the end, if it's a good or a bad choice, he's still my teammate, so I'm still going to have his back no matter what he goes through," Tyler Seguin said at the All-Star draft, echoing what other Bruins have said about Thomas.
But team management might feel differently. The Bruins' president, Cam Neely, said it "would have been nice" for Thomas to attend and that he had "concerns" about how the controversy would affect him.
Thomas's no-trade clause expires at the end of this season, and General Manager Peter Chiarelli may be tempted to trade Thomas and his $5-million-a-year cap hit. Thomas's 24-year-old backup, Tuukka Rask, has been a top-notch goalie in all three of his N.H.L. seasons.
There may be some resentment on Thomas's side as well. A season and a half ago, when he was nursing a hip injury and was playing merely well rather than at his usual stratospheric level, the Bruins shopped Thomas around. That slight bothered him. He removed the Bruins' black and gold colors from his pads and took the team crest off his mask.
Thomas was miffed again last season when, after a couple of off games amid a record-breaking season, Neely suggested he might not start in the playoffs.
Now, speculation is rampant that Thomas will leave Boston. Other teams are already licking their chops about what it could mean to have the greatest goalie of the era - and the most politically controversial one - in their nets.
 Ovechkin Takes a Pass
In the past few years, the All-Star Game has been something of a showcase for Alex Ovechkin, the wildly popular Washington Capitals captain whose electric play and charismatic showmanship made him perhaps hockey's most appealing performer.
Although Ovechkin hasn't been the high-flying, high-scoring sensation of past seasons, he was selected to play in this weekend's events in Ottawa. But when the league suspended him three games for an illegal check last week, Ovechkin announced he was backing out.
Ovechkin said he was disappointed in the ruling because he did not feel he had done much wrong. Asked why he was pulling out of the All-Star Game, he initially replied, "My heart is not there. I got suspended so why do I have to go there?" He added that he felt he would be a distraction.
In the past, the N.H.L. has punished players who refused to attend; it is a violation of the standard players contract. But the league chose not to make a bad situation worse and let Ovechkin stay home.
Regardless, his withdrawal sparked some angry reaction in the news media and from at least one fellow player. Andy McDonald of the St. Louis Blues called it "classless" on his Twitter account.
Hockey players have long had a tradition of generosity in promoting the sport. Tales of the Blackhawks regularly holding up the team bus during the 1960s while Bobby Hull signed every autograph still resonate decades later.
Fans, too, have always felt these examples set their heroes apart. It would be of little surprise if their affection for Ovechkin now changed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); SPORTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%) Thomas, Tim; Hockey, Ice; Boston Bruins; National Hockey League

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON BRUINS (94%); DALLAS STARS (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%) Boston Bruins; National Hockey League

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); GLENN BECK (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Thomas, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1281 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Expanded Playoffs Coming to a Park Near You

BYLINE: BEN STRAUSS


HIGHLIGHT: Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, speaks about the state of the game at the White Sox fan convention. 

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, was at the Palmer House Hilton on Friday night for the annual White Sox fan convention. He talked at length to fans and the news media about the state of the game, including an announcement that he still expected his 10-team playoff proposal to take effect for the 2012 season.
Two weeks removed from signing a two-year contract extension, Selig spoke enthusiastically about the plan he floated last summer to add another wild-card team to each league, and which was opposed by several players.
"We're talking about intense races everywhere," he said. "Clubs really want it."
Selig pointed to the successful addition of two wild-card teams in 1995 as evidence that another expansion would be good for the game. He also had a message for any traditionalists opposed to his vision.
"You would have thought I had defiled motherhood, the way they talked about how I ruined the game" in 1995, he said. "But look what it's done."
Last year, both wild-card races were decided in dramatic fashion on the last day of the season. Selig called it "one of the great nights of the regular season."
Players and owners have agreed to the expanded postseason, but whether it will be put in place this year or next has been in question. A final decision is expected March 1.
The new format calls for a one-game playoff between the wild-card winners in what amounts to a play-in game for each league. Selig said he was in favor of making the opening round a best-of-three series but found a consensus for the single-elimination game. According to The Associated Press, because of the built-in disadvantage for wild-card teams, the two sides have endorsed tie-breaker games to settle division ties.
Selig, 77, is committed to the job through 2014, which will make his 22-year tenure the second longest for a baseball commissioner, behind only Kenesaw Mountain Landis, the first commissioner, who held the post from 1920 until 1944.
Throughout the 15-minute round with reporters and a 30-minute question-and-answer session with White Sox fans, Selig repeatedly invoked the grand mission of his office.
"The game transcends our own selfish issues," he said. "We want to provide hope and faith to as many places as possible."
On other topics, Selig said he was in favor of limited expansion in the use of instant replay for balls "down the line and trapped balls, but we can't stand around after every play." He said he would welcome a return to a 154-game schedule ("The economics aren't going to allow it"), and would determine once and for all the appropriate compensation for the Boston Red Sox after general manager Theo Epstein left for the Chicago Cubs in October. 
"If the clubs can't solve their own disputes, then the commissioner does," Selig said..
He also called steroids "a societal problem."
Selig lauded the health of the sport he has guided for the past two decades, saying the business of baseball is thriving. He has overseen revenue growth to $7 billion from $1.2 billion in 1992.
"I once dreamed of getting to $2 billion," he said.
But a recent poll found that just 13 percent of Americans consider baseball their favorite sport. In 1985 that number was 23 percent, and in 2010 it was 17 percent.

        
New Details in Dodgers' Sale
        
Common Sense Prevails in New Baseball Agreement
        
Selig's Not Worried About the Mets
        
In League Realignment, Which Team Goes to the A.L.?
        
Schieffer Appointed to Oversee Dodgers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%) baseball playoffs; bud selig; Wild Card; Selig, Bud; Baseball; Chicago White Sox; Chicago (Ill)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (94%) Chicago White Sox

PERSON: Selig, Bud

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1282 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, Jan. 29

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Sunday shows air interviews with President Obama and the four Republican presidential contenders. 

 BODY:
Tensions between the Republican presidential candidates are increasing as the nominating contests continue. Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney traded jabs during the debate on Thursday as Mr. Romney fought to regain his front-runner status ahead of Tuesday's primary in Florida.
This week, all four Republican candidates join the Sunday shows to discuss their strategies going into the fourth state of the primary season. Univision's "Al Punto" will air an interview conducted with President Obama after his State of the Union address, offering him an opportunity to talk about the economy, immigration policy and the charges of unfulfilled promises that have been leveled against him by the Republican field.
Newt Gingrich gives interviews to ABC's "This Week," "Fox News Sunday," Telemundo's "Enfoque" and Univision. His interview with Univision, recorded at the channel's candidate forum, attracted attention Wednesday as Jorge Ramos, host of "Al Punto," questioned him about his stances on immigration and about accusations by his ex-wife.
Univision and Telemundo also feature interviews with Mitt Romney. In addition, Telemundo has Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, who has promised to remain neutral during the primaries but came to Mr. Romney's defense this week, countering an attack by Mr. Gingrich.
Rick Santorum also appears on Telemundo, as well as NBC's "Meet the Press." Joining him on NBC will be Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and a supporter of Mr. Romney, and Fred D. Thompson, a former senator and a supporter of Mr. Gingrich. David Axelrod, the Obama campaign's senior strategist, weighs in on the State of the Union address and the Republican elections.
CNN's "State of the Union" features Representative Ron Paul of Texas, as well as Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, talking about Tuesday's primary. Carlos M. Gutierrez, former commerce secretary, and Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles weigh in on Latino voters, whom candidates are fighting to win over in Florida and nationwide.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, is also on CNN, talking about the State of the Union address - a subject that the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, broaches on ABC and that the House Budget Committee chairman, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, discusses on Fox.
CBS's "Face the Nation" has a packed schedule this week. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the Democratic National Committee chairwoman, and Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, stop by to talk about the Florida primary. Also on hand are Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Donald Trump, as well as two Florida Republicans, Representative Allen B. West and Representative Mario Diaz-Balart.
Leonard Curry, chairman of the Republican Party of Florida, joins C-Span's "Newsmakers."
Bloomberg's "Political Capital" features Alan K. Simpson, a former senator and former co-chairman of Mr. Obama's deficit reduction commission.
And Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, will be on TV One's "Washington Watch" to talk about the State of the Union address and the Republican candidates.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Jan. 22
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu: Jan. 2
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu: Dec. 26
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Nov. 21
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Oct. 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); INTERVIEWS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); BUDGETS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%) sunday breakfast; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (58%); ALLEN WEST (58%); RON PAUL (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); RICK SCOTT (58%); MARIO DIAZ-BALART (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (55%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012



1283 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ELBERG, GAIL

 BODY:
ELBERG--Gail. The All Stars Project is deeply saddened by the passing of one of our foremost groundbreakers, Gail Elberg. 
Gail devoted her life to organizing in poor communities to bring about positive social change. Born in Brooklyn in 1948, she became a VISTA volunteer on the Fallon Indian Reservation in Nevada. In the 1970s, in the midst of New York City's devastating fiscal crisis, she was a pioneer organizer of the New York City Unemployed and Welfare Council. This 10,000-member union of the poor was the first to seek collective bargaining rights for welfare recipients. Later, she would focus her extraordinary organizing talents on creating an award-winning volunteer program for the All Stars Project. She involved thousands of people from all walks of life, rich and poor and everyone in between; providing them with creative opportunities to give back to the city's most disempowered and disadvantaged communities. Gail was a powerful public advocate for volunteerism, serving on the boards of the NY Association for Volunteer Administration and the Association of Leaders in Volunteer Engagement. Under her direction, the All Stars volunteer program won the National Points of Light Award and was designated by Mutual of New York as the best volunteer site for working people. A tireless champion of the underdog, Gail battled a brain tumor for two and a half years, showing the same boundless energy and optimism with which she lived her life. Her incredible community organizing skills, her keen intelligence and her offbeat sense of humor made her admired and loved by everyone she touched. She will be so deeply missed. Gabrielle L. Kurlander President and CEO All Stars Project, Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1284 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Rebecca Jarvis, Matthew Hanson

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Rebecca Jarvis and Matthew Pierce Hanson were married Saturday evening at the McNamara Alumni Center in Minneapolis. Rabbi Barry Axler officiated, with the bridegroom's father, the Rev. Craig H. Hanson, the lead pastor at Roseville Lutheran Church in Roseville, Minn., taking part. 
The couple met at the University of Chicago, from which they graduated.
The bride, 30, is a host of ''CBS This Morning: Saturday.'' She is also the CBS News business and economics correspondent in New York. She is a daughter of Gail MarksJarvis and James T. Jarvis of Chicago. The bride's father is a lawyer and business consultant in Chicago. Her mother is The Chicago Tribune's nationally syndicated financial columnist.
The bridegroom, 33, is a partner in the New York office of GSV Asset Management of Woodside, Calif., responsible for investing in high-growth technology companies. The bridegroom's father and mother, Cynthia L. Hanson, live in Shoreview, Minn.
The couple knew each other for several years before they started to date. ''I remember him as this guy's guy, always hanging out with a large group of friends and making them laugh,'' Ms. Jarvis said of their college days.
Romance did not enter the picture until after graduation, when they found themselves in investment banking in Chicago, working 100-hour weeks in a little cubicle at Bank of America.
''She was the funniest girl I ever met,'' Mr. Hanson said. ''There was an enormous depth to her personality and character that she didn't reveal to a lot of people. I found that very appealing.''
In July 2004, after hundreds of PowerPoint presentations and meetings, Mr. Hanson, who had been working with Ms. Jarvis for more than a year, finally mustered the courage to ask her on a date.
''By working so closely together for a year, I got to know him very well,'' Ms. Jarvis said. ''I had already seen how well he treated other girls he dated before me, and I knew how genuine he was. Investment banking is a brutal business, but he always had the ability to do the comic-relief thing to help relieve the stress, not just for me but for other members of our group. So by the time he asked me out, I was able to see who he really was without him having to make a first impression.''
In April 2006, Ms. Jarvis was hired by CNBC as a business reporter and moved to New York. That began the long-distance chapter of their relationship. It lasted for two years before Mr. Hanson, too, began working in New York.
In December 2010, the couple were back in Chicago to visit family and friends. They were on LaSalle Street, outside their old bank building when Mr. Hanson dropped to the frozen ground on one knee and proposed.
''I did not see it coming,'' Ms. Jarvis said. ''It was so cold out, and we were both shivering. When he took off his glove and reached into his pocket to take out the ring, it was difficult to tell if he was shivering from the cold or from nervousness.''
VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); ALUMNI (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); WRITERS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1285 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; WORKSTATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Building A Bridge To a Lonely Colleague

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
IT'S lonely at the top, or so it is said. But in fact it doesn't matter where a person is in the office hierarchy -- employees at all levels become lonely, even when other workers are all around them.
Research into loneliness has tended to focus on people's private lives and on groups that may be prone to it, like the elderly. But some researchers have done studies on workplace loneliness, and have found that it hurts not only individuals but organizations as a whole. 
Loneliness is a perception of isolation or estrangement from others, says Sigal G. Barsade, a management professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. It arises from ''the critical human need to belong,'' she says.
Loneliness is not the same as solitude, which can be a positive and welcome state. Nor is it synonymous with depression, although the two may be correlated, says Sarah Wright, a senior lecturer in organizational leadership at the University of Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand. With loneliness, there is a need to rid oneself of distress ''by integrating into new relationships,'' she explained in an e-mail. ''With depression, there is a drive to surrender to it.''
Because it is part of the human condition, loneliness is often regarded as a personal problem. But managers may need to view it as an organizational issue as well, according to research by Professor Barsade and Hakan Ozcelik, an associate business professor at California State University, Sacramento.
In a recent study of more than 650 workers, the two researchers found that loneliness -- as reported both by the sufferer and his or her co-workers -- reduces an employee's productivity. This was true on both individual and team-oriented tasks.
Just look at what loneliness can do to a person, and you'll see why. ''Loneliness tends to distort social cognition and influences an individual's interpersonal behavior, resulting in increased hostility, negativity, depressed mood, increased anxiety, lack of perceived control and decreased cooperativeness,'' Dr. Wright says.
Professor Barsade is investigating whether loneliness may also be ''contagious,'' the way she has found emotions like anger and happiness to be in the workplace.
So what to do? First, realize that ''loneliness is an emotion, and we should listen to it,'' Dr. Ozcelik said.
Those trying to combat loneliness should remember that ''it is actually about the quality of relationships and not the quantity,'' Professor Barsade said.
JUST one close relationship with a colleague can make all the difference. The recent economic downturn may well have been a factor in heightening feelings of workplace loneliness, said Nancy S. Molitor, a public education coordinator for the American Psychological Association and a clinical psychologist in private practice in Wilmette, Ill.
Even among people who have kept their jobs, she said, office layoffs may mean a loss of contact with someone ''who wasn't just a co-worker, but a friend.''
To fight loneliness, employers don't necessarily want to organize more parties, Dr. Ozcelik said. ''Being lonely in the middle of a crowd can be exhausting,'' he said. ''Creating more distractions won't help those people.''
Helping a colleague, or yourself, out of loneliness, may involve such simple steps as taking the time for a chat, asking for input on a project, or offering an invitation to coffee or lunch.
And perhaps managers shouldn't feel so irritated by the occasional raucous coffee break or a lingering conversation about last night's game or TV show. These types of encounters may promote bonding that causes people to work harder.
But sometimes loneliness can be built into the fabric of an organization. An atmosphere of distrust, suspicion and fear can cause workers to feel estranged from one another, Dr. Wright has written.
And even without those elements, the way that work is structured can either inhibit or enhance a sense of community, Professor Barsade said.
''Managers need to be thoughtful about making sure that their teams and team members are interpersonally engaged and connected to each other,'' she said. ''We know that's a mechanism through which good work gets done.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTO NGAI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1286 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: In Tucson, Finding a Game to Replace the One That Took Its Ball and Left

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
TUCSON -- The last few years have not been kind to the Old Pueblo, as this city is known. The collapse of the housing market sapped its growth. Boycotts over the state's immigration policies kept tourists away. The shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords shook its residents.
Then there was the departure of Major League Baseball. Last year, for the first time since Harry S. Truman was president, no professional baseball teams held spring training here. Without the White Sox, Rockies or Diamondbacks, Tucson no longer felt like a big-league town; tens of millions of dollars vanished with them. 
The teams had left for Phoenix and surrounding cities that dangled taxpayer-subsidized stadiums and the prospect of shorter commutes because all 15 clubs that train in Arizona are now nearby. Tucson was also hurt by the loss of a college bowl game, a golf tournament and a Triple-A baseball team, before replacements were found.
But the city is bracing for an economic lift -- and a small measure of revenge -- when six Major League Soccer teams arrive in the coming weeks to train here for the first time. Four of them -- the Los Angeles Galaxy, the New England Revolution, the New York Red Bulls and Real Salt Lake -- will also compete in the Desert Diamond Cup, a two-week tournament that could draw as many as 50,000 fans and fill some of the void.
''We're excited about soccer because baseball really let us down, let down the community,'' said Richard Elias, a member of the Pima County Board of Supervisors, which owns the facilities where the teams will play. ''It's a big opportunity for us, filling up those restaurants and hotels.''
For Mr. Elias and other native Tucsonans, becoming a hub for soccer in Arizona is about more than just money; it is about pride. Tucson suffers from a second-city syndrome found in places like Reno, Nev., and St. Paul. While Tucson is old and rich in history, it has long lived in the shadow of Phoenix, which is almost three times as large and far wealthier. As one businessman observed, ''There are dimes in Tucson and dollars in Phoenix.''
In some ways, Tucson orbits alone. It leans Democratic in a heavily Republican state. Phoenicians have five professional sports teams to root for; Tucsonans call the University of Arizona Wildcats their home team. Tucson is closer to Mexico, 60 miles to the south, than to Phoenix, 120 miles north.
Tucsonans are proud of their long ties to baseball -- Mr. Elias and others recall watching Willie Mays, Randy Johnson and other greats -- but soccer is perhaps a more natural fit in a city where clubs and schools are brimming with thousands of players. This month, Tucson hosted an annual youth tournament that drew 327 teams from six states, the city's fourth-largest tourist event.
Latinos, who make up about 40 percent of the population, add to the soccer craze. So do the thousands of Mexicans who came last year to see the Red Bulls and Sporting K. C. play an exhibition match that filled Hi Corbett Field even though the event was put together just weeks before. The teams also played F. C. Tucson, a new, home-grown amateur team.
''That told us that we have a strong soccer culture here that hasn't been activated yet,'' said Greg Foster, co-founder of F. C. Tucson Events, which organized those games and this year's spring training as a way to support F. C. Tucson. ''It may not replace Major League Baseball, but it may replace it in a different way.''
The surprising reception to last year's exhibition match caught the eye of Major League Soccer, which hopes to create a spring training format similar to baseball's Grapefruit and Cactus Leagues in Arizona and Florida. If Tucson can continue to draw big crowds and improve its stadiums, the league would be willing to send more business its way, said Nelson Rodriguez, an executive vice president of the league.
Even though the teams do not start arriving in earnest until next month, restaurants, bus companies and high-end hotels are ready to embrace them and their fans.
The loss of the baseball teams ''definitely impacted our business as well as Tucson as a community, but the M.L.S. teams are the first positive signs of professional sports coming back,'' said Richard A. Brooks, the director of sales at the Westin La Paloma Resort and Spa, where four teams are staying. The hotel, he said, expects to generate twice as much income from soccer as it did from baseball.
Studies show that relying on sports to jump-start an economy can be a fool's errand. Stadium construction jobs come and go, and much of the other work, like selling tickets, hot dogs and programs, is done by part-time workers who are paid low wages. In many cases, there is little net gain to a local economy because fans who attend sporting events use money that they would otherwise have spent at movie theaters, restaurants or malls.
Spring training, though, is different because many fans come from out of town, pumping money into local businesses. The teams and their fans used to spend about $16 million in Tucson during spring training. Without spring training last year, Pima County had to use about $1 million from its general budget to make the bond payments on its sports facilities because the hotel and car rental tax receipts that used to service that debt had declined.
For better or worse, many cities like Tucson use sports as a way to gauge their civic self-worth. Many residents hope that by hosting soccer spring training camps and supporting their own team, F. C. Tucson, their city will finally have something Phoenix does not.
''There is a sense of rivalry, because we know we're not like them,'' said Magdalena Barajas, a member of a fan group that supports F. C. Tucson. ''It feels great, like owning a team, and we're stepping up for Tucson.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Pearlman, left, and Greg Foster, co-founders of F. C. Tucson, are helping to organize spring training in Tucson for six Major League Soccer teams. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOYCOTTS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (74%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); GOLF (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (68%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (57%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (57%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (98%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (94%); RENO, NV, USA (69%) ARIZONA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1287 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: What's He Got to Hide?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland
IN a filthy Ethiopian prison that is overridden with lice, fleas and huge rats, two Swedes are serving an 11-year prison sentence for committing journalism.
Martin Schibbye, 31, and Johan Persson, 29, share a narrow bed, one man's head beside the other's feet. Schibbye once woke up to find a rat mussing his hair.
The prison is a violent, disease-ridden place, with inmates fighting and coughing blood, according to Schibbye's wife, Linnea Schibbye Steiner, who last met with her husband in December. It is hot in the daytime and freezing cold at night, and the two Swedes are allowed no mail or phone calls, she said. Fortunately, she added, the 250 or so Ethiopian prisoners jammed in the cell protect the two journalists, pray for them and jokingly call their bed ''the Swedish embassy.'' 
What was the two men's crime? Their offense was courage. They sneaked into the Ogaden region to investigate reports of human rights abuses.
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, Ethiopia's increasingly tyrannical ruler, seemed to be sending a signal to the world's journalists: Don't you dare mess with me!
So the only proper response is a careful look at Meles's worsening repression. Sadly, this repression is abetted by acquiescence from Washington and by grants from aid organizations.
Those Swedish journalists will probably be released early because of international pressure. But there will be no respite for the countless Ethiopians who face imprisonment, torture and rape.
I'm in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, and so is Meles. I've been pursuing him for the last few days, trying to confront him and ask him about his worsening pattern of brutality.
He has refused to see me, so I enlisted my Twitter followers to report Meles sightings. I want to ask him why he has driven more journalists into exile over the last decade than any other leader in the world, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists in New York City.
Meles has done genuine good in fighting poverty. He has some excellent officials under him, including a superb health minister, and Ethiopia's economy is making progress in health and agriculture. Ethiopia is full of aid organizations, and it has a close intelligence and military relationship with the United States government.
Yet since 2005, when an initial crackdown left 200 protesters dead and 30,000 detained, Meles has steadily tightened his grip. A Human Rights Watch report this month noted that the government is forcibly removing tens of thousands of people from their rural homes to artificial villages where they risk starvation. Those who resist endure arrests, beatings or worse.
''The repression is getting worse,'' notes Tamerat Negera, who fled to the United States after the newspaper he edited was closed down in 2009. ''His vision seems an attempt to root out any dissent.''
Meles has criminalized dissent, with a blogger named Eskinder Nega now facing terrorism charges, which could mean a death sentence. His true crime was calling on the government to allow free speech and end torture.
Appallingly, the Meles regime uses foreign food aid to punish his critics. Ethiopia is one of the world's largest recipients of development aid, receiving about $3 billion annually, with the United States one of its largest donors. This money does save lives. But it also ''underwrites repression in Ethiopia,'' in the words of Human Rights Watch.
Families and entire areas of the country are deliberately starved unless they back the government, human rights groups have shown. In Ethiopia, the verb ''to starve'' is transitive.
Look, I'm a huge advocate of smart aid to fight global poverty. But donors and aid groups need to ensure that their aid doesn't buttress repression.
The Meles regime, run largely by a coterie from his own minority Tigrayan ethnicity, has been particularly savage in the Ogaden region, where it faces an armed uprising. When Jeffrey Gettleman, a colleague at The New York Times, went to the Ogaden in 2007, he found a pattern of torture and rape. The government then arrested Gettleman and two colleagues, detaining them for five days in harsh conditions.
The two Swedish reporters illegally entered the Ogaden and met a rebel group to examine that human rights wasteland. In December, they were sentenced to 11-year terms.
Steiner, Schibbye's wife, said of the harsh conditions: ''Eleven years in an Ethiopian prison is equal to life, because you do not survive that long.''
Amnesty International says that in the last 11 months, the government has arrested at least 114 Ethiopian journalists and opposition politicians. It described this as ''the most far-reaching crackdown on freedom of expression seen in many years in Ethiopia.''
Prime Minister Meles, you may have dodged me in Davos, but your brutality toward Swedish, American and Ethiopian journalists will not silence the world's media. You're just inviting more scrutiny.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The case of two Swedish journalists imprisoned in Ethiopia sheds light on a harsh campaign of repression. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IRADA HUMBATOVA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); TORTURE (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

PERSON: MELES ZENAWI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ETHIOPIA (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1288 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2681 words

HEADLINE: The Bookstore's Last Stand

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
PALO ALTO, Calif.
IN March 2009, an eternity ago in Silicon Valley, a small team of engineers here was in a big hurry to rethink the future of books. Not the paper-and-ink books that have been around since the days of Gutenberg, the ones that the doomsayers proclaim -- with glee or dread -- will go the way of vinyl records.
No, the engineers were instead fixated on the forces that are upending the way books are published, sold, bought and read: e-books and e-readers. Working in secret, behind an unmarked door in a former bread bakery, they rushed to build a device that might capture the imagination of readers and maybe even save the book industry.
They had six months to do it. 
Running this sprint was, of all companies, Barnes & Noble, the giant that helped put so many independent booksellers out of business and that now finds itself locked in the fight of its life. What its engineers dreamed up was the Nook, a relative e-reader latecomer that has nonetheless become the great e-hope of Barnes & Noble and, in fact, of many in the book business.
Several iterations later, the Nook and, by extension, Barnes & Noble, at times seem the only things standing between traditional book publishers and oblivion.
Inside the great publishing houses -- grand names like Macmillan, Penguin and Random House -- there is a sense of unease about the long-term fate of Barnes & Noble, the last major bookstore chain standing. First, the megastores squeezed out the small players. (Think of Tom Hanks's Fox & Sons Books to Meg Ryan's Shop Around the Corner in the 1998 comedy, ''You've Got Mail''.) Then the chains themselves were gobbled up or driven under, as consumers turned to the Web. B. Dalton Bookseller and Crown Books are long gone. Borders collapsed last year.
No one expects Barnes & Noble to disappear overnight. The worry is that it might slowly wither as more readers embrace e-books. What if all those store shelves vanished, and Barnes & Noble became little more than a cafe and a digital connection point? Such fears came to the fore in early January, when the company projected that it would lose even more money this year than Wall Street had expected. Its share price promptly tumbled 17 percent that day.
Lurking behind all of this is Amazon.com, the dominant force in books online and the company that sets teeth on edge in publishing. From their perches in Midtown Manhattan, many publishing executives, editors and publicists view Amazon as the enemy -- an adversary that, if unchecked, could threaten their industry and their livelihoods.
Like many struggling businesses, book publishers are cutting costs and trimming work forces. Yes, electronic books are booming, sometimes profitably, but not many publishers want e-books to dominate print books. Amazon's chief executive, Jeffrey P. Bezos, wants to cut out the middleman -- that is, traditional publishers -- by publishing e-books directly.
Which is why Barnes & Noble, once viewed as the brutal capitalist of the book trade, now seems so crucial to that industry's future. Sure, you can buy bestsellers at Walmart and potboilers at the supermarket. But in many locales, Barnes & Noble is the only retailer offering a wide selection of books. If something were to happen to Barnes & Noble, if it were merely to scale back its ambitions, Amazon could become even more powerful and -- well, the very thought makes publishers queasy.
''It would be like 'The Road,' '' one publishing executive in New York said, half-jokingly, referring to the Cormac McCarthy novel. ''The post-apocalyptic world of publishing, with publishers pushing shopping carts down Broadway.''
Shouldering the responsibilities of Barnes & Noble is one thing. Holding the fate of American book publishing in your hands is quite another. But William J. Lynch Jr., the C.E.O. of the company, says he is up for the battle. With all of three years of experience in bookselling, Mr. Lynch must pull off a balancing act that would be tricky even in good times. He must carve out a digital future for Barnes & Noble without forsaking its hard-copy past, all while his company's profit and share price are under pressure, his customers are fleeing to the Web and Amazon is circling.
It might come as a surprise, but Mr. Lynch says Barnes & Noble is, in fact, a technology company. Never mind that it has 703 bookstores and operates in all 50 states. To the delight of publishers, he has pushed hard into e-books and, with the help of the well-reviewed Nook, even grabbed a lot of market share from Amazon. But he is playing David to Mr. Bezos's Goliath. Barnes & Noble's stock closed on Friday at $11.95, putting the value of the company at $719 million. Amazon's shares closed at $195.37, valuing Mr. Bezos's company at $88 billion.
''We could sit here and bang our head against the wall and get sick about it like we do every week,'' Mr. Lynch, 41, said of his company's stock price. But he contends that pushing into e-books with the Nook is the right way, and perhaps the only way, forward.
''Had we not launched devices and spent the money we invested in the Nook, investors and analysts would have said, 'Barnes & Noble is crazy, and they're going to go away,' '' Mr. Lynch said.
BEFORE Mr. Lynch joined Barnes & Noble in 2009, he had never sold a book in his life. (The last book he read -- on the Nook, he said last week -- was ''The Spy Who Came In From the Cold,'' by John le Carre.) Mr. Lynch came to the job from IAC/InterActiveCorp, where he worked for HSN.com, the online outlet of the Home Shopping Network, and Gifts.com.
And yet, in three years, he has won a remarkable number of fans in the upper echelons of the book world. Most publishers in New York can't say enough good things about him: smart, creative, tech-savvy -- the list goes on. It helps that he has forged the friendliest relations between publishers and Barnes & Noble in recent memory. They are, after all, in this together.
Mr. Lynch grew up in Dallas and still speaks with a hint of Texas twang. But he has the foot-tapping intensity of a tech type running on four Mountain Dews. It seems fitting, then, that he usually works out of an office in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, where Barnes & Noble's Web and digital operations are based, rather than at the company's stately headquarters on Fifth Avenue, not far away. When he talks, you get the sense that he could be selling just about anything. As it happens, he is selling books.
Mr. Lynch says Barnes & Noble stores will endure. The idea that devices like the Nook, Kindle and Apple iPad will make bookstores obsolete is nonsense, he says.
''Our stores are not going anywhere,'' he said in an interview this month in his office. He pointed to a surprisingly robust holiday season. In the nine weeks leading up to Christmas, sales were up 4 percent from the previous year. Titles for children and young adults are doing well, partly a result of the popularity of fiction with paranormal or dystopian themes, like ''The Hunger Games.'' And in the second half of 2011, Barnes & Noble picked up a big chunk of business from its vanquished rival, Borders.
Yet no sooner had the holidays passed than Barnes & Noble came out with some downbeat news for the year ahead. On Jan. 5, it projected it would lose as much as $1.40 a share in fiscal 2012. On top of that, Mr. Lynch said shareholders seemed to be underestimating the Nook's potential so much that perhaps the company would be better off if it just spun off its digital business. Wall Street howled, and Barnes & Noble's stock still hasn't fully recovered. A bit of good news for the company is that, thanks to the Nook, it's been grabbing e-book business from Amazon. Mr. Lynch said Barnes & Noble now held about 27 percent of the market, a number that publishers confirm gleefully. Amazon has at least 60 percent.
Responding to questions about the battle over e-books, Amazon issued a statement on Friday pointing to its own recent growth. In the nine-week holiday period ended Dec. 31, it said, ''Kindle unit sales, including both the Kindle Fire and e-reader devices, increased 177 percent over the same period last year.''
Granted, Mr. Lynch inherited a company at a pivotal moment in its long, winding history. Barnes & Noble dates back to 1873, when Charles Barnes went into the used-book business in Wheaton, Ill. His company later moved to New York, bought an interest in an established textbook wholesaler, Noble & Noble, and opened a large bookshop on Fifth Avenue.
So it went until an enterprising young bookseller, Leonard Riggio, came along. After gaining a foothold in college bookstores, he bought that Barnes & Noble bookshop in 1971. Before long, he was offering deep discounts -- and expanding wildly across the nation.
Early in his tenure, Mr. Lynch pressed Mr. Riggio's brother, Stephen, his predecessor as C.E.O., to explain the business he'd gotten himself into.
''I had this 'La Femme Nikita' immersion with him,'' Mr. Lynch recalled. ''We went to lunch and I just told him, 'Tell me everything you know about the book business.' ''
But at that time, Amazon had already made the first successful move in e-readers: the first-generation Kindle hit the market in November 2007. Mr. Lynch had arrived in the C-suite, but was perilously late to the party.
ON Homer Avenue in downtown Palo Alto is a tiny, two-story building that once housed the maker of Palo Alto Bread.It was here, in March 2009, that Barnes & Noble brought a few new hires to create the Nook. Outsiders weren't quite sure what the company was up to. The landlord figured that Mr. Lynch wanted to open a store.
What began as an almost quixotic effort to catch up with the Amazon Kindle has now grown into a 300-person operation in the heart of Silicon Valley. Mr. Lynch has hired engineers, software developers and designers, who are today spread among five low-slung buildings.
In one room, a virtual wallpaper of Nook color devices hangs in rows neat as a checkerboard. A common area holds a foosball table and a cooler of VitaminWater. Some of the walls are made of silver-colored mesh. Some of the cubicles are lime green.
But there are also reminders of the old Barnes & Noble. Over here is a basket of actual books, including ''Travels With Charley'' and ''The Little Prince.'' Over there on a wall are enormous vintage covers of books like ''Of Mice and Men'' and ''The Great Gatsby.''
It was Nick Carraway who told Jay Gatsby, ''You can't repeat the past.'' That warning seems to hang over these offices. A sign above one group of engineers says: ''We are changing the future of bookselling.''
For all the bells and whistles and high-minded talk, Barnes & Noble doesn't exactly have the cool factor (or money) of, say, a Google or a Facebook.
Ravi Gopalakrishnan, the first engineer whom Mr. Lynch hired and now the chief technology officer for digital products, said his techie friends were incredulous when he joined Barnes & Noble.
''They were all wondering what I was up to,'' Mr. Gopalakrishnan, 46, said. ''I'm a technology guy -- why I was working for a retail company? They thought I was nuts. There were a lot of e-mails that said, 'Barnes & Noble?!' ''
Bill Saperstein, a mild-mannered surfer and a veteran of Apple, said he was persuaded to leave retirement to join Barnes & Noble as vice president for digital products hardware engineering.
''We don't see a lot of the stock and the free sushi bar and everything else that you find at Google, but there's a lot of responsibility,'' said Mr. Saperstein, 62, who spent seven years working for Steve Jobs. ''It was stuff that I strongly believed in, which was reading.''
Barnes & Noble is trying to strike at Amazon with another device. At its labs in Silicon Valley last week, engineers were putting final touches on their fifth e-reading device, a product that executives said would be released sometime this spring. (A Barnes & Noble spokeswoman declined to elaborate.)
Back in New York, Mr. Lynch has been working to revamp the look of Barnes & Noble stores. Last year, the company expanded sections for toys and games and added shiny new display space for its Nook devices. In another sign of the digital revolution, Mr. Lynch expects to eliminate the dedicated sections for music and DVD's within two years -- while still selling some of them elsewhere in the stores. He also plans to experiment with slightly smaller stores. And, before long, executives will take the Nook overseas -- a big switch, given that Barnes & Noble has focused almost exclusively on the American market for decades. The first stop is expected to be Waterstones bookstores in Britain.
All of this would be a tall order for any C.E.O., and some analysts wonder if Mr. Lynch has bitten off more than he can chew. Then again, given this industry's pace of change, Barnes & Noble may have to adapt to new realities, or die trying.
''I think they realize they can't continue at the rate they're going,'' said Jack W. Perry, a publishing consultant. ''They need more money to invest, to slug it out.''
THESE are trying times for almost everyone in the book business. Since 2002, the United States has lost roughly 500 independent bookstores -- nearly one out of five. About 650 bookstores vanished when Borders went out of business last year.
No wonder that some New York publishers have gone so far as to sketch out what the industry might look like without Barnes & Noble. It's not a happy thought for them: Certainly, there would be fewer places to sell books. Independents account for less than 10 percent of business, and Target, Walmart and the like carry far smaller selections than traditional bookstores.
Without Barnes & Noble, the publishers' marketing proposition crumbles. The idea that publishers can spot, mold and publicize new talent, then get someone to buy books at prices that actually makes economic sense, suddenly seems a reach. Marketing books via Twitter, and relying on reviews, advertising and perhaps an appearance on the ''Today'' show doesn't sound like a winning plan.
What publishers count on from bookstores is the browsing effect. Surveys indicate that only a third of the people who step into a bookstore and walk out with a book actually arrived with the specific desire to buy one.
''That display space they have in the store is really one of the most valuable places that exists in this country for communicating to the consumer that a book is a big deal,'' said Madeline McIntosh, president of sales, operations and digital for Random House.
What's more, sales of older books -- the so-called backlist, which has traditionally accounted for anywhere from 30 to 50 percent of the average big publisher's sales -- would suffer terribly.
''For all publishers, it's really important that brick-and-mortar retailers survive,'' said David Shanks, the chief executive of the Penguin Group USA. ''Not only are they key to keeping our physical book business thriving, there is also the carry-on effect of the display of a book that contributes to selling e-books and audio books. The more visibility a book has, the more inclined a reader is to make a purchase.''
Carolyn Reidy, president and chief executive of Simon & Schuster, says the biggest challenge is to give people a reason to step into Barnes & Noble stores in the first place. ''They have figured out how to use the store to sell e-books,'' she said of the company. ''Now, hopefully, we can figure out how to make that go full circle and see how the e-books can sell the print books.''
Mr. Bezos, for one, isn't waiting. Amazon has set the book industry on edge by starting a publishing unit that has snagged authors like Timothy Ferriss and James Franco. And, each day, the stock market provides a sobering reminder that Mr. Bezos, not Mr. Lynch, has the deeper pockets.
While publishers' fates are closely tied to Barnes & Noble, said John Sargent, the C.E.O. of Macmillan, it's not all about them.
''Anybody who is an author, a publisher, or makes their living from distributing intellectual property in book form is badly hurt,'' he said, ''if Barnes & Noble does not prosper.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William J. Lynch Jr., chief executive of Barnes & Noble, with a wall full of e-readers at its site in Silicon Valley, where 300 employees are building the company's digital side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A magazine display at a Barnes & Noble store. The company's C.E.O. says the idea that e-readers will make bookstores obsolete is nonsense. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU4)
Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon, above, with a Kindle Fire last fall. Early to the e-reader market, Amazon now wants to cut out the middleman -- traditional publishers -- by publishing e-books directly. Amazon's moves pose a huge threat to Barnes & Noble, which now highlights its Nook e-readers in its stores. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES (ABOVE)
 PAUL AGGART/BLOOMBERG NEWS (RIGHT))(BU5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PUSHART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); RETAILERS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); BAKERIES (55%)

COMPANY: CROWN BOOKS CORP (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (50%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1289 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: N.H.L. and Players Union Look Ahead to New Labor Deal

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN

 BODY:
OTTAWA, Ontario -- The battle lines over contract negotiations between the N.H.L. and the players union discreetly took shape Saturday, as Commissioner Gary Bettman and the union's executive director, Donald Fehr, met with reporters during All-Star weekend.
Formal talks are not yet scheduled between the league and the union over the collective bargaining agreement that expires in September, but a potential sticking point could involve division of revenue. N.H.L. owners may seek to reduce the players' share of revenue from 57 percent to somewhere around 50 percent, as N.F.L. and N.B.A. owners managed to do in recent months. 
''Certainly it is possible they'll try and do that,'' Fehr said, though he cautioned that every sport's economics are different and that there was no indication yet that N.H.L. owners would pursue that course.
Other key topics were covered by Bettman and league executives at a news conference after a board of governors meeting here. They indicated that:
the 11th hour is approaching for the money-losing Phoenix Coyotes;
the league is advancing money to the financially troubled Devils;
there is no move to tighten rules against fighting.
But the potential of a labor impasse was the focus for Bettman and the league executives. The deputy commissioner Bill Daly said, ''We've canvassed our clubs, and we've gotten input from our general managers, and we're prepared to engage.'' He added, ''We're certainly aware of what our financial situation is, and where we are, but I'll leave that for bargaining.''
Bettman said he was ''not concerned about the timing'' for starting talks with the union. He said the league was being ''nonconfrontational'' about the union's recent rejection of a conference realignment plan.
While Daly said the N.H.L. had always been ''very transparent'' and ''forthcoming'' about opening its financial books to the union, Fehr asserted that ''there's significant information we don't have.''
Fehr was asked whether the players were ready to accept concessions.
''I don't think it's a matter of conjecture that the players made significant concessions in the last agreement,'' Fehr answered, referring to the contract signed by a fractured players union after the 2004-5 lockout. ''It was an enormous amount of money in the wealth transfer over the period of the agreement. The players understand what that was; they understand what happened.''
Under Fehr, the union has become highly organized, with as many as five players on each team directly involved.
''My hope is that we get together, and that collective bargaining be painless and quick,'' Bettman said. ''That would serve everybody's best interest.''
On other topics, Bettman said concussions were up this season, although he declined to give hard numbers. He said the rise may be attributable to improved sensitivity in diagnosing concussions, and to greater player awareness of symptoms and willingness to report symptoms.
''We think the culture has changed,'' Bettman said.
The governors also received a briefing from the league's medical advisers on concussions and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., the brain damage that seems linked to repeated blows to the head and has appeared in all four deceased N.H.L. players whose brains have been examined.
Bettman said that as part of the briefing the governors were told ''that nobody yet really knows with any degree of certainty, or even close to that, whether C.T.E. results from concussions.'' While it is true that no links between concussions and C.T.E. have been established, many neurologists and other medical experts say enough evidence exists to suggest such linkage, and thus a need for stronger rules against head contact and fighting.
Bettman noted a 25 percent decline in fighting this N.H.L. season from last. But, he said, ''as an internal matter there hasn't been much pushing at all from general managers'' to modify fighting rules.
It is unknown what percentage of hockey concussions result from fights, but researchers' recent estimates have ranged from 8 percent to 24 percent.
However, Bettman said that fighting was not behind this year's rise in concussions.
''It seems to be coming from accidents, teammates colliding, players falling on their head, pucks to the head, so whether or not we want stronger penalties for fighting is really separate and apart from the overall concussion issue,'' he said. ''Obviously there are some concussions caused by fighting, just as there are some concussions caused by getting hit in the head by pucks -- but nobody's advocating using a foam rubber puck.''
Bettman said that there was still no deadline for finding a buyer for the Phoenix Coyotes, who were purchased out of bankruptcy by the N.H.L. in 2009 and are still operated by the league. The city of Glendale, Ariz., pays $25 million annually to cover losses but may not pay another year's subsidy.
Despite inquiries into the Coyotes from a third potential buyer, Daly suggested that time was running out.
''I agree with the general concept that just rolling it over year to year is not healthy for the franchise, it's not healthy for the fan base, it's not healthy for the league, long-term,'' Daly said. ''It can't go on interminably. At some point you have to turn the page and move on. And I think there's a growing sense that we're getting there.''
Quebec City is the leading candidate should the Coyotes move. Last year, the Atlanta Thrashers' move to Winnipeg was completed and announced in May.
Bettman and Daly said the league was not subsidizing or loaning money to another financially troubled team, the Devils. But they said they were advancing money to the club.
''We're advancing revenue streams that they're otherwise entitled to,'' Daly said of the Devils.
Bettman confirmed that the Devils' principal owners, Jeff Vanderbeek and Ray Chambers, are feuding ''and that has had some difficult consequences in terms of the operation of the club.'' He said the league may push for one owner to buy out the other, or for a third party to buy the club. But he said it was ''fair to call the Devils stable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); PHOENIX COYOTES (55%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (55%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); ARIZONA, USA (55%) CANADA (74%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1290 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: The Burdens On Consumers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Spend, Spend, Spend. It's the American Way'' (Economic View, Jan. 15), in which Robert J. Shiller looked at the American tendency to see consumer spending as a symbol of patriotism: 
We should realize, however, that while consumers today account for a vast share of gross domestic product, they are nearly spent. Many consumers have seen no significant increase in real income in decades, while Wall Street, business in general and cumulative inflation have soared. Many are also struggling under enormous retail and mortgage debt.
No wonder, then, that banks won't lend, businesses won't expand, and unemployment remains so high. The solution is to get more money into consumers' hands via tax rebates. This money could come either from a surcharge on business, which has profited immensely, or from a redirection of current business tax revenue. Robert Barnes
Savannah, Ga., Jan. 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX RELIEF (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (50%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1291 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: A Renewed Public Push for Somewhere to Sit Outdoors

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
On recent sunny day in San Francisco, Rebecca Scalfaro left her office to eat lunch and read a few pages of a John Steinbeck novel in Civic Center Plaza in front of City Hall. As usual, Ms. Scalfaro, a petite 48-year-old who works in accounting, found a seat along one of the low-lying concrete walls that surround the square patches of grass on the plaza.
''They're very uncomfortable,'' she said as she sat on the eight-inch high ledge and tried to rearrange her legs. 
''A bench would be great,'' she said. ''Or even if it wasn't a bench, just some chairs would be really nice.''
All around the city, San Franciscans can be found seated on steps, curbs, retaining walls and on the grass -- but not on benches. In a tacit surrender to the overwhelming problem of homelessness, the city has simply removed public seating over the last two decades. Benches in Civic Center Plaza were removed in the 1990s. Those in nearby United Nations Plaza were ripped out in the middle of the night in 2001, to discourage the homeless from congregating and camping there.
''Because San Francisco has been unwilling to deal with homelessness in a serious way, we have instead removed public seating from virtually the entire city,'' said Gabriel Metcalf, the executive director of the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association, an urban policy research group. ''It's such a sad statement and it makes the city that much less livable for everyone.''
Despite its problems, some people are now speaking out for public seating. In the last two years, a movement has been growing to create small, lively public spaces with places to sit. Inventive miniparks, called parklets, are popping up in parking spaces around the city, some of them with permanent seats, albeit uncomfortable ones -- to discourage prolonged sitting. Food-truck operators bring temporary tables and chairs with them. Public rights-of-way are being transformed into plazas, like the Castro's Jane Warner Plaza, an erstwhile intersection where residents now sit at tables sipping coffee in the sunshine.
''The city is focused on improving the public realm and that's demonstrated by projects like parklets,'' Christine Falvey, a mayoral spokeswoman, said.
This resurgence has reignited the debate over public space and homelessness. Scott Wiener, a supervisor who represents the Castro, has introduced legislation to prohibit people from smoking, camping or parking shopping carts in Jane Warner Plaza and nearby Harvey Milk Plaza.
The legislation, which Mr. Wiener said could be expanded to cover parklets across the city, has been met by an outcry from some old-time Castro leaders and advocates for the homeless.
''It's really ridiculous, it's stirring up the anti-homeless sentiment,'' said Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director of the Coalition on Homelessness. ''It targets a class of people that may find themselves sleeping in a plaza or pushing a four-wheel shopping cart.''
Ms. Falvey said ''the city has been doing significant work on homelessness. In the last seven years, we have moved nearly 15,000 people off the streets.''
San Francisco city planners are now working on plans that could reintroduce some outdoor seating along Market Street, the city's major thoroughfare, from Civic Center to the Embarcadero. Granite benches were removed from Market Street in the 1990s after business owners complained about homeless people, according to a 2010 study.
Neil Hrushowy, an urban designer for the city who is working on the Market Street project, said that past planning based solely on ''the fear of quote-unquote undesirables'' was not good for urban design -- and did not actually work.
''There is a pretty broad agreement that depriving the public of seating is not going to solve the problem of who has access to public spaces,'' Mr. Hrushowy said. ''The question is, how can we happily coexist?'' Indeed, the homeless still hang out in United Nations Plaza, a 2.6-mile pedestrian mall whose benches were removed 10 years ago. On a recent sunny day, Wayne Biggs, 61, was in the plaza waiting for a truck that offers free lunches.
Mr. Biggs, who said he was homeless, was neatly dressed and seated on a cement retaining wall next to a large suitcase filled with his belongings.
''There used to be benches here,'' he said. ''They even had these dividers so people couldn't sleep on them. Now there's just this concrete. It's cold and there's always pigeon poop on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lunchtime at United Nations Plaza. In a bench-deprived city, food trucks sometimes roll out tables and chairs. Below, homeless people asleep in the plaza. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIANNE MILTON/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LEGISLATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1292 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Seek Help From New Plan 2.0

BYLINE: By MERIBAH KNIGHT. 
mknight@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
The stories were varied. There was the formerly homeless woman who said she had become ill from shelter food; the social worker who felt that without sufficient resources, she was being set up to fail; the youth who asked for more drop-in services; the mother who lost her job and then her home; and the man who was told he was ineligible for certain services because he was neither an addict nor mentally ill.
They, along with national experts on homelessness, social workers and community activists, gathered at the Chicago Temple last week for a candid discussion about Chicago's homeless problem and new ways for the city to address it. 
Some wanted answers. Many wanted help. But most simply wanted to be heard.
As they spoke, the familiar faces of homelessness -- addicts, the disabled and the chronically homeless -- seemed to fade into the background, giving way to a much more complex group: youths, families and recent casualties of a difficult economy.
''We need to relearn our population,'' said Ellen Ray, program director at Humboldt Park Social Services, a nonprofit group that serves the homeless. Instead of seeing people with traditional family crises, ''joblessness and insufficient incomes are the main reasons we see'' for homelessness these days, she said. The unprecedented conference, organized by the Chicago Alliance to End Homelessness, a nonprofit agency that works with the city to help nongovernmental service providers, was an attempt to get the creative juices flowing before the city revamps its 10-year plan to end homelessness.
That plan, set in motion by Mayor Richard M. Daley in 2003, has not accomplished its goal, but it was hailed for moving many of the homeless from temporary shelters to longer-term ''supportive'' housing, with access to a wide range of social services.
But while the number of supportive housing units in Chicago has increased by 88 percent, from 3,598 in 2002 to 6,779 last year, there are still not nearly enough of them to house the city's estimated 94,000 homeless.
Conference sessions, each consisting of an hourlong panel discussion and an hour of public comment, focused on various groups of homeless people -- the unemployed, the elderly, veterans and youths -- and issues they face, like inadequate housing, access to services and prevention.
Participants offered suggestions on what the city should include in its second plan to end homelessness, named Plan 2.0, which is set to be unveiled this spring.
A consistent theme in the conference was the complexity of factors underlying the problem. ''If homelessness were the only problem, it would be simple,'' said Marguerite Brown, a program manager at Cornerstone Community Outreach, a nonprofit organization serving the homeless.
Speakers agreed that the main challenge was coordinating the work of multiple agencies, providers and sources of financing to create a comprehensive, navigable system of care that moves people from the shelter system into permanent housing, regardless of their situations. ''What is clear is that we need to focus on permanent supportive housing and affordable housing,'' said John Pfeiffer, the deputy commissioner of Chicago's Department of Family and Support Services. Housing for youth will be a prime concern of the new plan, he said. The city currently has only 209 beds for homeless young people.
Many experts were in favor of creating a standard application and a centralized waiting list for supportive housing that would be used by nongovernmental providers that maintain permanent housing and city agencies like the Chicago Housing Authority. Supporters of that step also said that a universal entry point to the housing system would do a better job of identifying clients from the start and deciding on the types of social services they might need -- like housing vouchers, mental health aid, education or family counseling.
Many of those who attended the conference said that the city's response to the homeless was hampered by what they called an inadequate 311 phone line for directing people to resources.
Jim LoBianco, the executive director of StreetWise Inc., a local social service agency serving the homeless, wants to scrap 311 in favor of a dedicated social-service line. ''311 is a failed model, and since that's our ostensible front door, it's clear that it needs to be stopped,'' said Mr. LoBianco, a former deputy commissioner in charge of the Office of Homeless Services under Mr. Daley.
Chicago is one of the few major cities without a dedicated social-services call center. Mr. Pfeiffer said that the city would either install one in the next three months or train existing 311 operators to better handle calls from homeless people needing help.
One of the most heated discussions dealt with interim housing, in which people are supposed to stay for only 120 days -- though many end up staying longer. Interim-housing providers said that it was unrealistic to expect to be able to move clients out so quickly.
Some advocates hesitate to eliminate interim housing entirely because of a lack of alternatives. Since 2002, shorter-term beds have declined by 17 percent.
''A few years ago, it was 'scrap emergency beds.' Now it's 'scrap interim,' '' Mr. LoBianco said. ''We should do absolutely nothing to put our inventory at risk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Derrick Davis at a session on permanent housing at the community meeting at Chicago Temple. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (95%); FAMILY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); DISMISSALS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1293 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead: Jan. 29 - Feb. 4

 BODY:
Classical
Anthony Tommasini
A couple of years ago it looked as if the popular OPERA ORCHESTRA OF NEW YORK, which had won a devoted following for its concert performances of neglected works, might not be able to recover from a financial crisis. But it's back and doing well. On Sunday the pioneering conductor Eve Queler, who founded the orchestra in 1971 and turned the post of music director over to Alberto Veronesi last season, returns to conduct Wagner's ''Rienzi'' at Avery Fisher Hall. ''Rienzi'' was a triumph at its 1842 Dresden premiere. For this story of 14th-century Rome, Wagner strove to outdo the spectacle of French grand opera. 
The score, which has strands of bel canto lyricism and German Romantic ardor, is beefed up with marches, processions, ensembles and ballets. This performance is headed by the British heldentenor Ian Storey as the papal notary Rienzi, with the soprano Elisabete Matos as Irene, his sister, and the mezzo-soprano Geraldine Chauvet in her American debut as Adriano, a pants role. Expect a day at the opera. Sunday,2 p.m., Lincoln Center, (212) 906-9137, operaorchestrany.org, $35-$165.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eve Queler will conduct the Opera Orchestra of New York in Wagner's ''Rienzi'' at Avery Fisher Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); CALENDARS (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1294 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: The Yin and the Yang of Corporate Innovation

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
IN the hunt for innovation, that elusive path to economic growth and corporate prosperity, try a little jazz as an inspirational metaphor.
That's the message that John Kao, an innovation adviser to corporations and governments -- who is also a jazz pianist -- was to deliver in a performance and talk on Saturday at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Jazz, Mr. Kao says, demonstrates some of the tensions in innovation, between training and discipline on one side and improvised creativity on the other.
In business, as in jazz, the interaction of those two sides, the yin and the yang of innovation, fuels new ideas and products. The mixture varies by company.
Mr. Kao points to the very different models of innovation represented by Google and Apple, two powerhouses of Silicon Valley, the world's epicenter of corporate creativity. 
The Google model relies on rapid experimentation and data. The company constantly refines its search, advertising marketplace, e-mail and other services, depending on how people use its online offerings. It takes a bottom-up approach: customers are participants, essentially becoming partners in product design.
The Apple model is more edited, intuitive and top-down. When asked what market research went into the company's elegant product designs, Steve Jobs had a standard answer: none. ''It's not the consumers' job to know what they want,'' he would add.
The Google-Apple comparison, Mr. Kao says, highlights the ''archetypical tension in the creative process.''
Google speaks to the power of data-driven decision-making, and of online experimentation and networked communication. The same Internet-era tools enable crowd-sourced collaboration as well as the rapid testing of product ideas -- the essence of the lean start-up method so popular in Silicon Valley and elsewhere.
''These are business and management innovations lubricated by technology,'' says Thomas R. Eisenmann, a professor at the Harvard Business School.
The benefits, experts say, are most apparent in markets like Internet software, online commerce and mobile applications for smartphones and tablets. ''The cost of creation, distribution and failure is low, so it takes relatively little time, money and effort to float trial balloons,'' says Randy Komisar, a partner in Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm, and a lecturer on entrepreneurship at Stanford.
That style of innovation is being applied well beyond Google's products and Internet start-ups. The National Science Foundation, for example, is embracing the formula to try to increase commercialization of the university research it finances. Last fall, the foundation announced the first of a series of grants for what it calls the N.S.F. Innovation Corps. The 21 three-member teams received a crash course at Stanford in lean start-up techniques, and have been given $50,000 each and six months to test whether their inventions are marketable.
The lean formula, with its emphasis on constantly testing ideas and products with customers, amounts to applying ''the scientific method to market-opportunity identification,'' says Errol B. Arkilic, program director at the foundation.
Yet while networked communications and marketplace experiments add useful information, breakthrough ideas still come from individuals, not committees. ''There is nothing democratic about innovation,'' says Paul Saffo, a veteran technology forecaster in Silicon Valley. ''It is always an elite activity, whether by a recognized or unrecognized elite.''
Successful innovation, Mr. Saffo observes, requires ''an odd blend of certainty and openness to new information.'' In other words, it is a blend of top-down and bottom-up discovery.
OPEN innovation isn't a new idea. It flourished, in its way, even in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, notes Tom Nicholas, a historian at the Harvard Business School. In fields like electricity, pharmaceuticals and communications, big corporations including General Electric and Dow Chemical routinely monitored the research beyond their walls, and bought or licensed promising work, especially the inventions of university scientists. The result, Mr. Nicholas says, was a thriving ''ecosystem of private and corporate innovation.''
A century later, the corporate labs at G.E. are trying to quicken the pace of innovation -- but this is long-cycle innovation, since G.E.'s power generators, jet engines and medical-imaging equipment last for decades. The company is opening a software center in Northern California to make its machines more intelligent with data-gathering sensors, wireless communications and predictive algorithms. The goal is to develop machines, such as jet engines or power turbines, that can alert their human minders when they need repairs, before equipment failures occur. Such smarter machines, the company says, are early arrivals in what it calls the Industrial Internet.
To tap outsider ideas, G.E.'s research arm has made investments with venture capital funds in clean-energy technology and health care, and it works with corporations, government labs and universities on hundreds of collaborative projects. ''We're much more externally focused and connected to the outside world than we were several years ago,'' says Michael Idelchik, G.E.'s vice president of advanced technologies.
Apple's smartphones, tablets and computers typically have life spans measured in a few years instead of decades, with new models introduced regularly. But like G.E., Apple is in the hardware business, where innovation cycles are beholden to the limits of materials science and manufacturing.
Apple's physical world is far different from Google's realm of Internet software, where writing a few lines of new code can change a product instantly. The careful melding of hardware with software in Apple's popular products is a challenge in multidisciplinary systems design that must be orchestrated by a guiding hand -- though it will no longer be the hand of Mr. Jobs, who died last October.
Yet Apple has also repeatedly displayed its openness to new ideas and influences, as exemplified by the visit that Mr. Jobs made to the Palo Alto research center of Xerox in 1979. He saw an experimental computer with a point-and-click mouse and graphical on-screen icons, which he adopted at Apple. It later became the standard for the personal computer industry.
In 2010, Apple bought Siri, a personal assistant application for smartphones. At the time, it was a small start-up in Silicon Valley that originated as a program funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Pentagon. Last year, Siri became the talking question-answering application on iPhones.
Apple product designs may not be determined by traditional market research, focus groups or online experiments. But its top leaders, recruited by Mr. Jobs, are tireless seekers in an information-gathering network on subjects ranging from microchip technology to popular culture. ''It's a lot of data crunched in a nonlinear way in the right brain,'' says Erik Brynjolfsson, director of the M.I.T. Center for Digital Business.
Apple and Google pursue very different paths to innovation, but the gap between their two models may be closing a bit. In the months after Larry Page, the Google co-founder, took over as chief executive last April, the company eliminated a diverse collection of more than two dozen projects, a nudge toward top-down leadership. And Timothy D. Cook, Apple's C.E.O., will almost surely be a more bottom-up leader than Mr. Jobs.
''What we're likely to see,'' Mr. Kao says, ''is Google and Apple each borrowing from the playbook of the other.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STARTUPS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); CROWDSOURCING (72%); SMARTPHONES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); TABLET COMPUTERS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (80%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (80%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1295 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Judith Clark's Radical Transformation

 BODY:
If Judy Clark is not a fit candidate for clemency, it is hard to imagine what argument could be made for giving clemency to anyone. The pain and anger of the Rockland families is completely understandable, but should the desire for endless retribution prevail over every other consideration? I hope that Governor Cuomo will choose the just and courageous course and release her.
JUDITH PODORE WARD, New York City 
As a 15-year-old in 1981, growing up just a few miles from the scene of the Brink's robbery and murders for which Judith Clark was jailed, I was astonished that political radicals would visit our sleepy suburban county to commit such a heinous crime. The everlasting devastation they caused to the families of the men they killed was evident to everyone, including Judith Clark herself, according to Tom Robbins's article. Mr. Robbins avoids a direct plea for Ms. Clark's release from prison but promotes the notion that it is the right thing to do. He seems to conclude that she is ''a different person'' from the one who committed the crimes and is now being warehoused without reason. Ms. Clark has undoubtedly fulfilled an aspiration of any prison sentence: to reflect on the crime, learn from her actions and self-improve. She has also managed to be a loving and connected mother despite daunting odds. But whatever the circumstances behind her sentence, and extraordinary life behind bars, the families who lost loved ones forever -- and those of us in the community that witness what happens to those who kill and steal -- expect something more. We rely on stiff punishment that is as permanent and undiluted for good behavior as the everlasting nature of the crimes for which they were imposed. Ms. Clark is rehabilitated, but this does not mean she deserves a break.
DAVID C. WILKES, Tarrytown, N.Y.
I met Judy in 1996 at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility in upstate New York when, for five years, she participated in a writing group I ran. The group was mainly for long-term inmates who committed violent crimes; the purpose was to give them a place, and a creative process, where they could come to terms with their actions and take responsibility for their crimes through writing -- confessions, dreams, rants, memories. The women in my group were relentless in their insistence on discovering who they were, what drove them to do what they had done and, in the end, to make amends. Judy was sentenced to 75 years. She has already served 31. I believe she should be released now. She is a transformed person -- kind, wise, moral, spiritual, devoted to others. I will stake my life that she will do good and not harm. I know there will be victims of her crimes who will be outraged by my support and sympathy for her. And I do feel their pain and suspicion; the death of police officers and a security guard, the nine children left fatherless -- those lives will never come back. But surely we can hold our anger and the memory of our murdered loved ones and at the same time allow transformed perpetrators to offer the rest of their lives to contributing to society, healing their communities, their families?
EVE ENSLER, posted on The Guardian's Web site
You quote me at age 9 saying that I did not really miss my mother. It is 22 years later, and I would like to amend that comment. I have always missed my mother. But I also understood from a young age that our separation was necessary, unquestionable and unavoidable -- a matter of punishment and of justice. After 30 years, this is no longer the case. My mother did not kill anyone, and her imprisonment is no longer just nor should it continue to go unquestioned by those with the power to reconsider her sentence. My mother deserves to come home not because I miss her -- every day, I miss her -- but because we have paid forher role in the crime with 30 years of our lives. We have been punished. Let justice now be served. Let my mother come home.
HARRIET CLARK, San Francisco
In 1972, I moved to Rockland County and clearly remember the overwhelming grief and sadness the entire community experienced with the deaths of Officers O'Grady and Brown in 1981. The loss is immeasurable. I later became coordinator of a college program for inmates, which eventually led me to meet Judy Clark. Emotionally, I stand with one foot in each camp. Although nothing she does can bring back slain officers (neither of whom she was convicted of killing, though she has accepted responsibility for the part she played), it is with the same idealistic zeal that sent her to prison that Judith Clark has become the very best example of what rehabilitation can be. Is it, indeed, possible to recognize that a person can change? I want to believe it is.
SUSAN WIENER, Nanuet, N.Y.
E-MAIL letters to magazine@nytimes .com or post comments at nytimes.com /magazine. Letters should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number. We are unable to acknowledge or return unpublished submissions. Letters and comments are edited for length and clarity. The address of The New York Times Magazine is 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE) GRAPHICS: 'Fascinating article on Judith Clark (80s Brink's robbery) in @nytimes. Raises interesting questions on reform & justice.' @benjaminaddy, Twitter
 ANALYTICS: It's the Economy 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); FAMILY (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); PRISONS (89%); CREATIVE WRITING (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (75%); MURDER (75%); ROBBERY (75%); SUBURBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1296 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Old Techies Never Die; They Just Can't Get Hired as an Industry Moves On

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Silicon Valley may be booming again, but times are still tough for the 200 out-of-work professionals who crowd into Sunnyvale's City Hall every Thursday morning.
Most of them hold advanced degrees in engineering and have more than a decade of experience in the technology sector. They fill all of the seats in the City Council chamber and spill out into the aisles.
They are members of Pro Match, a government-financed support group and ''interactive career resource center'' for educated older workers who have suddenly, and usually involuntarily, found themselves on the job market. Most have been out of work for months.
The job market ''is not the same as it was years ago,'' said Massimo Sutera, 45, a microprocessor engineer who was laid off last year when his firm, Zoran Corporation, a video chip maker, was acquired by the British firm C.S.R., which promptly scaled back its Sunnyvale operations, discontinuing its investment in digital television systems-on-a-chip. ''It's a mess.'' 
While Web-based companies like Facebook and Google are scouring the world for new talent to hire, older technology workers often find that their skills are no longer valued.
Part of the problem, analysts said, is that many of the companies shedding jobs are technology manufacturers, while most of the companies that are hiring are Internet-based.
While employment figures published by the state Employment Development Department show that Silicon Valley's technology sector has more than made up for job losses that occurred early in the recession, the rebound has not helped everyone.
Cisco Systems, a maker of computer networking equipment that is Santa Clara County's largest private employer, laid off 1,331 workers last year. The semiconductor sector, which used to be the lifeblood of the South Bay's economy, has lost 4,600 jobs since 2008.
''These are people who know how to run a factory floor, but most of these new companies don't care about that,'' said Connie Buck, a career counselor who helps run Pro Match.
As a result, the South Bay's unemployment rate, which stood at 8.9 percent in December, remains higher than the national average.
''The pace of change is just breathtaking,'' said Russell Hancock, president and chief executive of Joint Venture Silicon Valley, a research group backed by businesses and local governments. ''We've entered a strange new world. There are opportunities, but they are different. You have to be edgy and supercreative.''
''You're not going to get a job that's going to be assembly and filing and coding,'' Mr. Hancock said, ''and frankly, that can leave a lot of the older set a little bewildered.''
Hiring managers at the Bay Area's fastest-growing technology companies were blunt. Seth Williams, a director of staffing at Google, said his firm was looking for candidates who are ''passionate'' and ''truly have a desire to change the world.''
Brendan Browne, who heads hiring at the professional networking site LinkedIn, said his firm wanted every new hire to be entrepreneurial. Mr. Browne said that approximately 25 percent of LinkedIn's new hires came from the company's recruitment efforts at colleges and universities.
Lori Goler, the head of human resources and recruiting efforts at Facebook, said her company was looking for the ''college student who built a company on the side, or an iPhone app over the weekend.'' The company also hires more-experienced workers, if ''they are results-focused and can deliver again.''
Regardless of age, Ms. Goler said, ''We ask: Are they going to get to do what they love to do for fun at work?''
Some observers say much of this language is just code for age discrimination. They point to the case of Brian Reid, a 52-year-old manager who was fired by Google in 2004 -- nine days before the company announced plans to go public -- after his supervisors, including the company's vice president for engineering operations, allegedly called him a poor ''cultural fit,'' an ''old guy'' and a ''fuddy-duddy'' with ideas ''too old to matter.''
Mr. Reid sued Google for age discrimination and said that his unvested stock options would have been worth at least $45 million if he had stayed there.
Google denied the charges and asked that the suit be dismissed, calling such remarks ''stray comments.'' But the California Supreme Court ruled that the claims, if true, would constitute discrimination. The case was resolved out of court ''to the mutual satisfaction of all parties,'' said Lori Ochaltree, Mr. Reid's lawyer, who declined to say how much the settlement was.
A Google spokesman declined to comment on the case or the amount of the settlement.
In an interview, Norman S. Matloff, a professor at the University of California, Davis, who has studied hiring patterns in the technology sector, said workers over 35 regularly face discrimination by technology companies.
Kris Stadelman, director of NOVA, the local work force investment board, which released a survey of human resource directors at 251 Bay Area technology companies last July, said that in her experience, candidates began to be screened out once they reached 40.
''Especially in social media, cloud computing and mobile apps, if you're over 40 you're perceived to be over the hill,'' Ms. Stadelman said.
Getting hired is especially difficult for unemployed workers who have been laid off after many years at a single company, Ms. Stadelman said, because highly sought-after engineers often change firms regularly in an effort to stay on the cutting edge.
The issue of discrimination against laid-off workers has caught the eye of lawmakers. Earlier this month, Assemblyman Michael Allen, a Democrat from Santa Rosa, introduced a bill that would make it illegal for an employer to ''intentionally refuse to offer employment to an individual because of the individual's status as unemployed.''
Ms. Stadelman said that her agency encouraged unemployed workers to emphasize their achievements rather than their experience, not only in interviews but also on their resumes and LinkedIn profiles.
''I had a LinkedIn profile before, but it did not include my branding'' to show strengths rather than just job experience, said Euclid Taylor, a veteran account manager who was laid off last September when his company, dpiX, a sensor array maker, shut down its offices in Palo Alto and moved to Colorado Springs.
On his current LinkedIn profile, Mr. Taylor, who has gray hair around his temples, plays down his decade of service to dpiX and advertises himself as an ''analytical thinker and creative problem solver who effectively collaborates with multifunctional high-performance teams.''
Such retooling has brought success to many of Pro Match's members, but few of them have been hired by Silicon Valley's more glamorous tech companies.
According to the organization's records, 253 of its 583 participants found jobs last year, but just four were hired by Google. Apple, whose headquarters is just three miles away, hired one. Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter hired none.
Still, said Ms. Goler, the Facebook executive, older workers should not be discouraged from applying. She said her company wants to hire people of all ages and experience levels. ''If you've built great things before,'' she said, ''you can build great things again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); SEMICONDUCTORS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (64%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: ZORAN CORP (69%); GOOGLE INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1297 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 HONDA CR-V; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Welterweight Champ Steps Back in the Ring

BYLINE: By CSABA CSERE

 BODY:
ANN ARBOR, Mich.
A SUCCESS since its introduction in 1997, the Honda CR-V was the best-selling car-based compact utility vehicle in nine of the last 15 years, including five of the last six. If natural disasters in Asia had not disrupted production last year -- about 20 percent of CR-Vs were imported and even the assembly plant in East Liberty, Ohio, was affected by parts shortages -- it might well have been No. 1 again.
But Honda may find it tougher to continue its run of successes with this fourth-generation model. Since gas prices moved up five years ago, compact crossovers have become the best-selling utility vehicles in the country, attracting more, and better, competition. This year, Ford will introduce a new Escape, Toyota will unveil a new RAV4 and Nissan will bring out a new Rogue -- not to mention the arrival of new competitors like the Mazda CX-5. 
Honda is meeting this new competition with a carefully graduated step forward rather than a shoot-for-the-moon upgrade. Resisting the trend toward bigger and heavier, Honda has made the 2012 CR-V about an inch shorter in length and an inch lower than its predecessor, as well as about 50 pounds lighter. The lower profile, in combination with a more wind-cheating shape, cuts aerodynamic drag by about 10 percent. Both the lighter weight and better aerodynamics improve fuel efficiency, a top priority in this class.
But Honda has avoided significant powertrain improvements, declining to introduce direct fuel injection, downsize the engine or add a turbocharger. Instead, the CR-V uses an improved version of the existing 2.4-liter 4-cylinder with reduced friction and 5 more horsepower, for a total of 185.
The transmission remains a 5-speed automatic, albeit with upgrades and slightly taller gearing to reduce engine speed. But when even entry-level buggies like the Chevrolet Sonic and Hyundai Accent have 6-speed automatics, the CR-V's unit seems a bit of a relic.
Even so, the Environmental Protection Agency rates the fuel economy at 23 miles per gallon in the city and 31 on the highway for the front-drive CR-V and 22/30 for all-wheel-drive versions. Excluding the handful of hybrid crossovers, those figures are either best in the class or tied for best.
I recorded nearly 28 m.p.g. in suburban driving, so the efficiency improvements are real and they come with no downside. Despite the taller gearing, the 2012 model can hit 60 miles per hour from a standing start in the mid-eight-second range, which is about as quick as its predecessor. In normal driving, the CR-V easily keeps up with traffic, though against other 2012 cars and trucks it would probably lose more drag races than it would win.
Peak horsepower is available at 7,000 r.p.m., and if you summon every one of the ponies the engine makes appropriately strident noises. But most of the time it is reasonably subdued, with only an occasional mild drone when accelerating around 40 to 50 miles per hour.
The transmission is equally well behaved, shifting unobtrusively up and down just when you want it to, with particularly crisp quick shifts at full throttle. In fact, this CR-V, much like its predecessor, feels connected to the pavement in a way that imparts great confidence. The electrically assisted power steering is very accurate and nicely weighted, and the suspension provides excellent control of body motions.
At the same time, the CR-V effectively soaks up bumps and dips, which are craggy and common in the Detroit area. However, road noise is ever-present on the highway, particularly on concrete pavement. Unfortunately, with their light weight and large, boom-inducing cabins, few vehicles in this class are particularly quiet on the Interstate.
On the other hand, those large cabins provide plenty of space and utility, and the CR-V excels in this regard. The front seats are comfortable and roomy, as is the back, where the floor is totally flat.
While the CR-V is only an inch longer than the Civic sedan, it has a much roomier rear seat. In fact, the CR-V's back seat is roomier than the one in a Honda Accord sedan, a midsize car 16 inches longer.
This packaging advantage increases when you're carrying cargo; the CR-V provides more than 37 cubic feet of space behind the rear seat -- 10 cubic feet more than the combined volume of the Civic and Accord trunks. Fold down the split rear seat and this space expands to almost 71 cubic feet. Although the cargo volume is about the same as last year's model, the space is about five inches longer and the opening is about an inch closer to the pavement.
Honda has also come up with a new trick to avoid having to fold up the seat cushions manually before folding down the seat backs. Now, both operations are accomplished by simply pulling a lever in the cargo compartment. And unlike some other small crossovers, the CR-V still comes with a roll-up cargo cover to hide items from prying eyes -- and it can also be mounted to the floor and unfurled, forming a handy compartment for grocery bags.
This highly versatile interior is wrapped in sheet metal slightly sleeker than the last CR-V's, and also a bit tougher-looking in the front. The triangular shape of the rear side windows make the roofline seem more rakish than it actually is, and it creates a blind spot. These days, almost every small crossover trades style for function this way, though Honda tries to make up for it by giving the driver an expanded-view outside mirror.
The pleasing interior looks much richer than it is. Other than the soft elbow touch points, just about every surface is hard plastic, but clever graining makes it look like more expensive squishy plastic.
My test car was a top-of-the-line ''EX-L With Navi'' model; leather upholstery, faux wood and aluminum trim gave the interior a pleasing ambiance. Among the appreciated thoughtful touches were cruise-control buttons on the steering wheel of varied shapes; you can easily distinguish them by feel alone. Useful features include large cup holders, double-decker door bins and a central console that looks as if it can swallow an oversize purse.
Electronics figure prominently in any new car and the CR-V comes standard with a five-inch screen for the rearview backup camera that has three selectable fields of view, a Bluetooth hands-free phone connection, Pandora audio and voice-controlled text messaging. But despite the large screen, it wasn't easy to navigate through the numerous contacts in my phone book. Dialing numbers by voice command was a cumbersome multistep process.
To many CR-V owners, safety is perhaps more important than convenience. Traction control, stability control, antilock brakes and hill-start assist -- it keeps the car stationary while you move your foot from the brake to the accelerator -- are all standard. The stability control now coordinates with the electrically assisted power steering to help the driver maintain control on slick surfaces. On all-wheel-drive models, the system that sends power to the rear axle is electronically controlled, rather than hydraulically, and can allocate power even before the wheels slip.
The 2012 CR-V hasn't yet been crash-tested, but Honda says it expects top marks from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
Prices are up about $500 from last year, ranging from $23,105 for the base front-drive LX to $30,605 for the EX-L with all-wheel drive and a navigation system. Still, this represents good value for excellent all-purpose, all-weather transportation that gets decent fuel economy. But with strong new competitors lining up, we'll see how long the new CR-V can stay on top.
INSIDE TRACK: Honda plays it cool while the crossover competition heats up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CROWN PRINCE OF CROSSOVERS: Honda made measured improvements to its CR-V, but resisted messing with success.(AU1)
ZERO GROWTH POLICY: The 2012 CR-V is an inch shorter and an inch lower.
 GREAT PRETENDER: The CR-V's pleasing interior looks much richer than it is. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMERICAN HONDA)(AU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (71%); TRENDS (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (57%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1298 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Come on, China, Buy Our Stuff!

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
The first time I visited China, in 2005, an American businessman living there told me that the country was so huge and was changing so fast that everything you heard about it was true, and so was the opposite. That still seems to be the case. China is the fastest-growing consumer market in the world, and American companies have made billions there. At the same time, Chinese consumers aren't spending nearly as much as American companies had hoped. China has simultaneously become the greatest boon and the biggest disappointment. 
It wasn't supposed to be this way. In 2000, the United States forged its current economic relationship with China by permanently granting it most-favored-nation trade status and, eventually, helping the country enter the World Trade Organization. The unspoken deal, though, went something like this: China could make a lot of cheap goods, which would benefit U.S. consumers, even if it cost the country countless low-end manufacturing jobs. And rather than, say, fight for an extra bit of market share in Chicago, American multinationals could offset any losses because of competition by entering a country with more than a billion people -- including the fastest-growing middle class in history -- just about to buy their first refrigerators, TVs and cars. It was as if the United States added a magical 51st state, one that was bigger and grew faster than all the others. We would all be better off.
More than a decade later, many are waiting for the payoff. Certainly, lots of American companies have made money, but many actual workers have paid a real price. What went wrong? In part, American businesses assumed that a wealthier China would look like, well, America, says Paul French, a longtime Shanghai-based analyst with Access Asia-Mintel. He notes that Chinese consumers have spent far less than expected, and the money they do spend is less likely to be spent on American goods.
There is a long list of missteps, French says. Home Depot, for example, overestimated the desire for D.I.Y. home projects and high-end materials in a country with an unbelievably cheap labor force and a thriving black market. Kodak learned it couldn't forever dump its unsold film on a consumer base looking to make their first cameras digital ones. The Gap had to learn that a thriving middle class does not want to dress shabby-chic. In general, French says, European companies have done much better than American ones because they've had to practice selling across borders and cultures for decades.
Many U.S. executives also assumed that as China got richer, its citizens would spend more of their income. But the opposite has happened: the country's savings rate is now climbing faster than its spending. China's households save more than a quarter of their money, while Americans save less than 4 percent.
Some argue that this is because of millenniums-old Confucian frugality. Others say it's more prosaic. When China joined the W.T.O. in 2001, it famously conceded that it would break ''the iron rice bowl'' -- to get rid of the millions of decent-paying (for China) government jobs with fairly generous (for China) benefits. Partly as a result, a successful professional in Shanghai knows that she will have to bear any future health care or retirement costs for herself and, because of the one-child policy, for her parents and grandparents too.
Yet probably the greatest barrier to Chinese consumption is the policy of China's Central Bank. Every month, the United States buys around $35 billion in goods and services from China and sells around $11 billion back. That, of course, leaves a $24 billion trade deficit. Currencies work like any other salable good in that they adjust based on supply and demand. Every month, the United States is demanding a lot of renminbi and China is demanding few U.S. dollars. The natural result should be for the dollar to get weaker as the renminbi gets stronger.
But China's government prevents that adjustment by artificially increasing the demand for dollars, spending much of that $24 billion surplus on U.S. Treasury bonds. This sounds boring, but it effectively makes all Chinese exports somewhere around 25 percent cheaper and all U.S. imports to China, effectively, about 25 percent more expensive. Sure, we get to buy cheap stuff made in China, and by selling so many Treasury bonds, our interest rates -- like those for credit cards or mortgages -- are lower. But the long-term impact is disastrous. Many economic analysts, from Dean Baker on the left to David Boaz on the right, argue that all that easy money from China helped make the housing bubble much bigger and last longer, which created a far bigger crisis when the bubble finally burst.
The currency intervention also functions as a massive inequality-creation machine. U.S.-based behemoths, which own or use many of those exporting Chinese factories, benefit, as do their shareholders. And because more than 90 percent of U. S. stocks are owned by the wealthiest 20 percent, the spoils are disproportionately concentrated at the top. Meanwhile, lower wages, lost jobs and crippled manufacturing employment fall on the less wealthy. The economists that I spoke to estimated that China's currency policy has cost the U.S. between 200,000 and 3 million jobs. Of course, the wide range suggests that these are little more than educated guesses. But a broad picture does emerge. U.S. manufacturing employment has fallen by around 6 million over the last decade. If China had allowed its currency to adjust naturally, life might be much better for many former American factory workers.
Now is a particularly good time to put pressure on China's economic planners. Many market analysts fear that China's economy is slowing down considerably, a prospect that suggests the country will keep the renminbi weak for years to come. Given this, it may seem odd that China's currency policy isn't the beginning and end of every single political stump speech. After all, it's probably the one thing that, if changed, could instantly bring both jobs and more equality to this country. I can't think of any other economic agenda that would receive the support of unions and big business, free traders and protectionists, Wall Street Occupiers and Tea Partiers.
Every president since Clinton has been trying to persuade China to float its currency. A number of Republican presidential candidates, including Mitt Romney, support pressuring China. But candidates always talk tough. Presidents opt for a gentle, nudging approach. They know that China, alone, gets to decide.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. America and China were supposed to make each other richer.
2. Most of us are still waiting.
3. Blame the multinationals.
4. Blame China's Central Bank more.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PETER OUMANSKI) (MM12
MM14)
 CHART: Not Exactly the Red-Carpet Treatment: How U.S. Companies Bungled Their Entry Into China (MM14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); SAVINGS RATES (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); MARKET SHARE (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (69%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1299 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Comeback Gains Traction As Prices Soar For Rarest Cars

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.
THE collector car community left its annual week of auction extravaganzas here with much to think about.
After some uncertain years, have the value fluctuations caused by worldwide economic turmoil ended? Are the record-breaking sale prices limited to the finest and rarest vehicles, or will more common offerings also benefit from the rising tide?.
A total of 2,143 vehicles were auctioned at six events here, with total sales of at least $182 million, according to Hagerty.com, which tracks auction results for its collector-car price guide. One indicator -- subject to the influence of available cars, to be sure -- was the average sale price: $84,985, a healthy $17,142 higher than last year.
By genre, particularly strong sales were attained among European sports and racing cars like mid-1950s Mercedes-Benz Gullwings; rare classics like a Tucker Torpedo and a one-of-five 1933 Pierce-Arrow Silver Arrow; and vehicles with celebrity provenance, like a 1932 Packard Twin Six roadster once owned by Clark Gable. 
But over all there was strength, relative to recent years, from the top of the price ladder to the bottom rung.
''Our totals were only a couple million off from 2007,'' Craig Jackson, chief executive of the Barrett-Jackson Auction Company, said in an interview, referring to the peak year before the economy went into a tailspin. ''It's coming back.''
Barrett-Jackson's six-day event, the largest of the annual January auctions in the Phoenix area, accounted for more than half of the vehicles that changed hands during the week, with total sales of more than $90 million.
Barrett-Jackson's top sale was a 1948 Tucker Torpedo that brought a surprising $2.9 million. The previous record for a Tucker was $1.1 million at Monterey, Calif., in 2010.
The marquee sale of the week, however, was by Gooding & Company, which sold a 1955 Mercedes-Benz 300SL Gullwing -- one of just 29 produced with an aluminum body -- for $4.62 million, a record for that type of vehicle.
''It was aggressively estimated before the sale at $2.5 to $3 million,'' the president of the auction house, David Gooding, said in an interview. ''Eyebrows were raised at that amount. But the sale absolutely soared past that. We had no idea it would do that well.''
What might such a sale mean for the collector car market as a whole?
''It is a strong but discerning market,'' Mr. Gooding said. ''It's very, very strong for the best of the best. But average cars didn't set the world on fire.''
He added: ''There is incredible strength for luxury brands from Europe, sports and racing cars especially, more post-World War II than prewar. Those vehicles are seeing very strong, high demand.''
Even so, six auctions in town during the week may be one or two too many. Bonhams joined the party this year with a one-day event, while at auctions conducted by RM, Russo & Steele and Silver there was a drop from 2011 both in the number of cars consigned and in gross proceeds.
''I do see the scene as a bit diluted around the edges,'' Mr. Gooding said.
Even Gooding's catalog offered some vehicles a bit out of its usual range. These included a 1953 Simplex motorcycle and a garish 1948 Chrysler Town & Country convertible once owned by the actor Leo Carrillo of the ''Cisco Kid'' TV series, that had a Texas longhorn head mounted on the hood. The longhorn's eyes even lit up, blinking left or right to signal turns. ''Such a unique vehicle,'' the auctioneer, Charlie Ross, said with understatement.
At RM, notable deals included the $781,000 paid for a 1991 Ferrari F40 Berlinetta bought new by Lee A. Iacocca, the onetime Chrysler chairman, and the $990,000 sale of a 1959 BMW 507 roadster -- one of only 251 built.
Barrett-Jackson, long considered a specialist in 1950s and '60s American sports and muscle cars, extended its reach in the other direction. The company's seven-figure sales -- nine in all -- included prewar classics from Daimler, Duesenberg and Isotta Fraschini.
The high-end cars of Barrett-Jackson's new Salon Offering Collection are part of what it called the 5000 series, named for the special lot numbers assigned to them. These cars, which carried reserves of at least $500,000, included the Tucker and a 1947 Bentley Mark VI from the collection of Ron Pratte, a Phoenix-area businessman.
Thirty-five percent of the buyers at Barrett-Jackson's auctions were first-timers. ''Businessmen are seeing how much potential there is in putting money into classic cars,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''Where else are you going to put your money -- in a bank?''
No small part of the Barrett-Jackson event's appeal is based on its six days of nationally televised programming on the Speed cable TV channel.
''The 5000 Series cars brought in some excitement -- and we are all about excitement,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''We could do small, European-style, one-day events only for a small, select group of high-end cars. But we prefer the large-scale American-style events. It's a lifestyle event now, with tours of the Phoenix area for our people who come in from out of town. We take the wives -- more than 100 of them this year -- shopping, golfing and to the casino. We have dinner and receptions. So do our sponsors.''
On the other hand, the auction house is getting very picky about the vehicles it accepts, Mr. Jackson said. ''We turned down a lot of cars this time.''
Cars were rejected, Mr. Jackson said, for not being in sale-ready condition; for the type of restoration or modifications done; and for those of questionable provenance.
''When the amount of money we're talking about goes up, like it has, we see more phonies trying to get in,'' he said. ''We have researchers who look very carefully into the claims of the consignors. If we find something that can't be substantiated, we bounce it back.''
Examples of questionable vehicles cited by Mr. Jackson include Pontiac Tempests that had been turned into GTOs and big-block Corvettes.
Surprising amounts were paid, particularly at Barrett-Jackson, for so-called resto-mods. These are not authentic classics, but modified vehicles -- for instance, a 1957 Chevrolet gutted mechanically and fitted with a modern powertrain and suspension.
''In some cases, these cars are getting prices that exceed even the values of the original versions of the cars,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''These are collectibles you can actually use and drive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOST WANTED: Clockwise from above, aluminum-body 1955 Mercedes-Benz 300SL Gullwing
1948 Tucker Torpedo
Clark Gable's 1932 Packard Twin Six
1933 Pierce-Arrow Silver Arrow. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GOODING & COMPANY
BARRETT-JACKSON)(AU1)
BEAUTIES AND A BEAST: From far left, 1991 Ferrari F40 Berlinetta, bought new by Lee A. Iacocca
1959 BMW 507
Leo Carrillo's 1948 Chrysler Town & Country with auxiliary horns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARIN SCHNABEL/RM AUCTIONS
AARON SUMMERFIELD/RM AUCTIONS
 ALEJANDRO RODRIGUEZ/GOODING & COMPANY)(AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); RANKINGS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%) ARIZONA, USA (89%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (89%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1300 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''What did we learn today? Things are bad, and they're not improving at the rate that they want them to improve.'' Kevin Logan, chief United States economist at HSBC, talking about the Federal Reserve Board. The Fed said last week that in an effort to spur growth, it would extend by 18 months the period that it plans to hold down interest rates. 
''This is all about transparency.'' Sean Kane, co-founder of Safety Research and Strategies, an auto consulting firm, after it filed a freedom of information lawsuit to get a federal agency's records of its investigation into the unintended acceleration of a Toyota Prius last year.
''This is a sign of increased employer militancy.'' Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University, as employers turn to lockouts to press their unionized workers to grant concessions after contract negotiations deadlock.
''If the tunnel is 2012, I can't see any light at the end of it.'' Tim Huxley, chief executive of Wah Kwong Maritime Transport Holdings, a shipping line based in Hong Kong. The global downturn and a glut of freighters are pressuring ship owners and banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE SHIPPING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOCKOUTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

COMPANY: KANE CO (71%); WAH KWONG MARITIME TRANSPORT HOLDINGS LTD (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1301 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Identity Fraud Problem Could Be More Widespread

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
When Sandy Alderson traveled to the Dominican Republic in 2010 to investigate identity fraud for the commissioner's office, he went armed with a message. Alderson had previously served as the chief executive of the San Diego Padres, and related his experiences.
''I had personally been burned on a number of occasions by identity fraud,'' said Alderson, now the general manager of the Mets. ''One has to ask if one is prepared to make the same investment again. If you get burned too often, you may decide to go elsewhere. I think that hit home with them.'' 
Since Ozzie Virgil made his debut for the New York Giants in 1956, the Dominican Republic, with a population of less than 10 million, has produced 542 major leaguers, according to Baseball-Reference.com. That figure includes 68 All-Stars, including Albert Pujols, David Ortiz, Jose Reyes and Robinson Cano.
One of those former All-Stars, Fausto Carmona of the Cleveland Indians, was arrested Jan. 19 outside the United States consulate in Santo Domingo, charged with using a false name and birth date. The authorities say that his real name is Roberto Hernandez Heredia, and that he is 31, or three years older than he had claimed.
Since Carmona signed with Cleveland in 2000, his listed birth date has been Dec. 7, 1983. The Indians placed him on the restricted list Thursday, so they do not have to pay his $7 million salary or use a 40-man roster spot for him until he reports. Carmona is free on bail but cannot leave the country until his case is settled.
The case is similar to that of another pitcher, the Miami Marlins' reliever formerly known as Leo Nunez, who returned to the Dominican Republic last September after admitting to using fake documents and identity. His real name is Juan Carlos Oviedo, and he is said to be 29, not 28, as the Marlins had believed. Nunez stands to make $6 million this season, but like Carmona, he is on the restricted list and unable to leave the country.
Few in baseball were surprised that two well-established players had misrepresented themselves. The fear is that the problem could be much more widespread. One agent said more than a dozen players could soon lose their contracts because of age and identity issues.
''These are like time bombs,'' Mark Newman, the Yankees' senior vice president for baseball operations, said by telephone from the Dominican Republic while scouting there last week. ''But people are absolutely getting the message. Major League Baseball, the consulate and the major league clubs are all committed to this, and it will get better.''
Last March, the Yankees signed a pitcher named Juan Carlos Paniagua for $1.1 million, enthralled by his 100-mile-per-hour fastball. But there were already warning signs about Paniagua. A previous investigation had led to his suspension from the Arizona Diamondbacks, who had signed him in 2009 as Juan Carlos Collado.
The suspension -- and subsequent free agency -- appeared to be a boon for Paniagua, who stood to make a lot more from his Yankees bonus than he had from Arizona. But before he could pitch in the minors for the Yankees last season, he was suspended again, for unspecified reasons. Newman said Paniagua was now a free agent.
''Great arm,'' he said. ''But we're not surprised.''
Baseball is so entrenched in the Dominican Republic, and the talent pool runs so deep, that nearly every team has an academy there. But Newman, like Alderson, said fraud had become so pervasive that teams were becoming increasingly frustrated about misplaced opportunity costs -- investing money and scouting manpower to chase players with uncertain identities. Alderson said the government in the Dominican Republic had been more vigilant in response.
''I think they have come to realize that baseball is an important contributor to their economy in a variety of ways; you can kill the golden goose,'' Alderson said. ''I think they understand that it's important for them to create an attractive environment for baseball to continue to invest in their country -- an environment where clubs can rely on what's represented to be the case.''
Rob Manfred, an executive vice president in the commissioner's office, called it ''extremely rare'' for baseball to investigate the age and identity of established major leaguers like Nunez and Carmona. Baseball, he said, focuses its efforts almost entirely on entry-level amateurs.
Manfred called that ''a huge issue,'' perhaps more important than ever because of the possibility of a worldwide draft, or drafts, included in the new collective bargaining agreement. Prospects in most foreign countries, including the Dominican Republic, are not subject to the draft. Manfred and Michael Weiner, the executive director of the players union, are the co-chairmen of the newly created International Talent Committee, which includes Alderson and held its first meeting this month.
''We look at it this way: If you get a draft, you have to have transparency on who these players are,'' Manfred said. ''But even if you don't get a draft, as the Nunez and Carmona cases make clear, there's value in these reforms either way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pitcher Fausto Carmona, whose real name is Roberto Hernandez Heredia, was arrested Jan. 19 in the Dominican Republic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL DIAZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%); BAIL (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); ARRESTS (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%)

PERSON: MARK S NEWMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1302 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: After Apartheid

BYLINE: By ROB NIXON. 
Rob Nixon's latest book is ''Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor.''

 BODY:
SOMETIMES THERE IS A VOID
Memoirs of an Outsider
By Zakes Mda
561 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $35.
Zakes MDA and J. M. Coetzee, the two most acclaimed South African novelists of the past 20 years, could be writing about different countries -- and, in a way, they are. Coetzee excels at sparsely populated fictions of gnawing interiority. His socially uneasy and anguished solitaries, often academics like himself, wrestle with psychological dilemmas and metaphysical maladies. In contrast, Mda's greatest gift is his Dickensian social range, his ability to generate characters from diverse backgrounds, colluding and colliding across the barriers erected to divide them. Where Coetzee is drawn to existential hinterlands, Mda takes us deep into his country's literal interior, those rural regions that, in most South African writing, are pushed to the margins. 
Mda's gregarious and transfixing memoir, ''Sometimes There Is a Void,'' chronicles the upheavals that have sharpened his skills as a wide-ranging social observer. Like V. S. Naipaul's, his imagination has been shaped by three societies. At age 15, Mda abruptly fled into exile, following his radical father to Basutoland (now Lesotho), the tiny, impoverished mountainous kingdom surrounded by South Africa. Thrust into a disorienting new environment, Mda developed an outsider's protective camouflage, inhabiting this alien world with a watchful self-protectiveness that doubled as curiosity. When, in adulthood, he moved back to South Africa and later to teaching posts in America (these days, he migrates annually between Johannesburg and Athens, Ohio), he reaped the artistic payoff of his disrupted beginnings. He has learned to convert the absence of a bedrock sense of social normalcy into a talent for living on the qui vive.
In art as in life, Mda has honed his survivor's talent for deft self-reinvention. He began as a cartoonist and painter: during his dissolute Lesotho youth, he sometimes ended up at the Holiday Inn Casino, flogging his work to tourists. Later, during the anti-apartheid tumult of the late 1970s and '80s, he morphed into a playwright of political resistance, becoming one of his country's most celebrated dramatists. But in 1990, as Nelson Mandela's release from prison was inaugurating a new era, an image began to obsess Mda -- that of a professional mourner who ekes out a living from township funerals. From that character, his first novel, ''Ways of Dying,'' grew. Now, almost two decades later, he is best known internationally for his fiction. While many South African writers seemed to lose their footing after apartheid's official demise, unable to adjust creatively to the collapse of old certitudes, Mda has flourished, discovering fresh stories.
''Sometimes There Is a Void'' isn't a typical contemporary memoir, the kind shaped around a trauma and featuring a small cast of mostly nuclear family members. Mda's book reads more like a traditional autobiography; he has given us a chronicle that is, if anything, too expansive, introducing us to more named, real-life characters than many folks have Facebook friends. The swirling crowds are a measure of the wide, worldly life Mda has led, but some thematic selectivity would have sharpened the narrative.
Early on, he seems torn between two rival impulses: sticking to the book's most absorbing story line -- the making of the artist -- and documenting the factional infighting among Lesotho's political parties and the South African exiles who took shelter there. This second impulse derives from an understandable desire to correct the historical record. Mda's father was an influential member of the Pan Africanist Congress, a rival to Nelson Mandela's African National Congress. Mda seems impelled by filial loyalty to honor the role his father's party played in liberation politics -- a role that, with the A.N.C.'s rise to power, has largely been suppressed. But at times the level of detail he provides belongs to a different, more specialist book, dragging his dynamic personal story off course.
For the most part, though, Mda's autobiographical voice strikes a fine balance between outward engagement and inner exploration. His self-revelations and self-recriminations are intimate and intelligent without shrinking to narrow self-involvement. His writing becomes the most animated when he allows his deepest passions breathing room. As in his novels -- from ''The Heart of Redness'' to ''The Whale Caller'' -- a profound environmental consciousness informs his autobiography, an attentiveness to the vital interplay between rural communities and the ecological forces that sustain them. Mda provides terrific portraits, for example, of his visits to a beekeeping project he devised and has helped sustain among rural women in the mountainous border regions of the Eastern Cape. In such scenes, we feel his passion for his forebears' scenically rich but economically precarious lands. We feel too his community-mindedness, even as he remains alert to the psychological vagaries of rivalry and cooperation. From the honey the women gather, they can garner financial self-sufficiency. Mda delights in their successes, but one also senses a second layer to his delight -- the relish he takes in being a gatherer of stories.
A similar pleasure animates his tales about picking up hitchhikers. Having in middle age forsaken the other vices (alcohol, cigarettes, meat) of his early life, Mda can't quite conquer his need to give random strangers a ride. This causes his family some alarm: South Africa, after all, has one of the world's highest per capita murder rates. But Mda's hitchhiker addiction persists. It's a measure of his expansive humanity, his hunger for the stories of ordinary, struggling people, stranded along history's wayside.
Later, Mda chronicles (sometimes in excessive detail) the intercontinental debris of his romantic relationships. The pyrotechnics of his imploding second marriage, in particular, replete as it is with transnational child abduction, go well beyond the ordinary fallout of love gone wrong. Mda writes most powerfully and painfully here about jealousy: how, once set in motion, it can be a hard train to stop.
When he returns to a democratizing South Africa, Mda soon assumes celebrity visibility: on television, radio, as a newspaper columnist and dramatist, while simultaneously regenerating Johannesburg's Market Theater. The lesson he learns has ramifications that carry well beyond his personal story: how easy it is for a successful, mid-career artist to lapse into the role of professional opinion maker and cosmopolitan partygoer. In the end, Mda resists the fatal temptations of the limelight. Tiring of the deadening dishonesties that pollute official discourse among A.N.C. apparatchiks, he realizes that creativity and probity are less in demand than sycophancy. And so he trades hectic Johannesburg for American academia, where he can better sustain the anonymity and inventive autonomy that feed his talent.
First fate, then choice, have shaped Mda into a perpetual outsider who partly belongs to the three societies -- Lesotho, South Africa and the United States -- that have served as his provisional homes. He writes from inside the exile's ambiguous fate, acknowledging that the uprooted life brings new perspectives but at the cost of a haunting fear of inner incoherence. Yet, as his autobiography discloses, on the stage and on the page Mda has found a different kind of continuity through the steadying presence of imaginative belonging. To his credit, in a deeply unsettled life, he has nurtured this capacity to find within the creative act itself new, reviving forms of homecoming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF ZAKES MDA BY JIM SHIREY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) OHIO, USA (76%) SOUTH AFRICA (95%); LESOTHO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Sometimes There Is a Void: Memoirs of an Outsider (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1303 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: A Divide On the Payoff Of Legalizing Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Granting legal status to the illegal immigrants living in one of Texas' largest metropolitan areas would generate at least $1.4 billion a year in revenue for state and federal agencies, with Social Security and Medicare being the largest potential beneficiaries, according to an analysis by a Houston business group.
The report, from the Greater Houston Partnership, says that the untapped revenue would be accessible if immigration reform -- one that allowed illegal immigrants the chance to work legally and pay taxes -- was realized. (The Greater Houston Partnership is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.) 
Jeff Moseley, the chief executive of the 2,100-member group, said such reform makes sense in the current economy.
''The law is broken, and employers need to comply with the federal law,'' said Mr. Moseley, a former Denton County judge who ran as a Republican. ''But at the same time, the law needs to be business friendly, and it needs to recognize that there is a job to be done and we depend heavily on these very important workers.''
But the report has drawn criticism from advocates of a stricter immigration policy. Maria Martinez, the executive director of the Immigration Reform Coalition of Texas, accused the partnership of being little more than peddlers of economic snake oil for neglecting to account for the financial drain of providing services to illegal immigrants.
Ms. Martinez's group has supported a ban on so-called sanctuary cities in Texas, citing the need to preserve jobs for citizens and the potential financial benefits of removing illegal immigrants from Texas.
The partnership's revenue assessment is the result of calculating the additional contributions of the estimated 132,000 illegal immigrants in the Houston area if they and their employers had paid taxes on the estimated $7 billion in salary and wages they earned in 2008. Social Security would receive $852 million and Medicare would receive $206 million. The Department of the Treasury and the Texas Workforce Commission would receive about $336 million and $33 million respectively.
The report focuses on the Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown metropolitan area, which includes 10 counties. But Patrick Jankowski, the author of the report and the partnership's vice president for research, said the assumptions and methodology could be applied elsewhere because he used data from public sources -- like the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- and the Pew Hispanic Center.
The population is an estimate from 2008 based on information from the Pew Hispanic Center, and the analysis is based on that year's earnings.
''If my count on the amount of undocumented workers is too low, the contributions would actually be much higher,'' Mr. Jankowski said.
Ms. Martinez from the reform coalition, said the business group had simply found a way to create a study without including all the costs.
''The finest business schools in the country train individuals, entrepreneurs, what have you, the importance of transferring costs upon an unsuspecting public,'' Ms. Martinez said. ''That's what's happening obviously here with the Greater Houston Partnership.''
Demetrios Papademetriou, the president and co-founder of the Migration Policy Institute, an independent research group in Washington, D.C., said the analysis did not account for how much illegal immigrants cost taxpayers for services. ''You cannot do any accounting exercises unless you work on both sides of the ledger,'' he said.
Mr. Papademetriou said the study would have also benefited from analyzing what an ''equally qualified'' legal resident or citizen was earning in Houston for working the same position as the illegal immigrant.
For that, stakeholders must turn to a six-year-old study conducted by Carole Keeton Strayhorn, the former state comptroller. That analysis said that if Texas went without the estimated 1.4 million illegal immigrants who lived in the state in 2005, it would have lost about $17.7 billion in gross domestic product that year.
Illegal immigrants also produced more in-state revenue, $1.58 billion, than what they cost in state services, $1.16 billion, although local governments lost about $1.44 billion in health-care and law-enforcement costs that were not reimbursed by the state, according to the study by Ms. Strayhorn.
A spokesman in the office of Susan Combs, the current comptroller, said the agency had no plans to update the study.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Illegal immigrants return to Mexico after being caught in Arizona. A Houston group says immigration laws need ''to be business friendly.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE
 SPENCER SELVIDGE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); STATISTICS (60%); SPONSORSHIP (55%); JUDGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1304 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1375 words

PERSON: Kevin H. White 

HEADLINE: Kevin H. White, Mayor of Boston During Busing Crisis, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Kevin H. White, a four-term mayor of Boston who came to national prominence for shepherding the city through years of racial violence and economic stagnation -- and for a decadelong federal investigation into corruption in his administration -- died Friday night at his home in the Beacon Hill section of Boston. He was 82.
His family announced his death through a spokesman, George Regan. Mr. White had been treated for Alzheimer's disease since 2003.
In 1982, The New York Times described Mr. White as ''the last of a class of vibrant, liberal, big-city mayors of the 1960s, personified by John V. Lindsay of New York, who talked of civil liberties, social justice and neighborhood needs.'' 
A Democrat who ran as a reformer, Mr. White served from 1968 to 1984. For much of this period, Boston was torn by public outrage over court-ordered busing to desegregate its schools. Protests turned violent, and some school buses carrying black children were pelted with stones. In this roiling storm, Mr. White was widely seen as a stabilizing presence as he extended protection to the children and imposed order through a heightened police presence.
On another occasion, after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968, Mayor White, as a way to head off violence in the streets, arranged for a James Brown concert to be shown on public television.
Mayor White's first administrations in particular were noteworthy for the racial and ethnic diversity of their staffs. Mr. White was also known -- at least early in his 16-year tenure -- for helping decentralize municipal government by creating a series of ''Little City Halls'' in local neighborhoods.
In his later terms, he was perhaps better known for making Boston, in his words, ''a world-class city,'' encouraging development and refurbishing its flagging downtown, in particular the area around Faneuil Hall.
A trim man noted for his dapper attire, keen intellect and somewhat remote demeanor, Mr. White was seen by supporters as an iconoclast with refined sensibilities and by detractors as an autocrat with expensive tastes. All generally agreed, though, that by the time he left office in 1984, Mr. White had built a vast and powerful political machine whose like had not been seen in Boston since the four administrations of Mayor James M. Curley in first half of the 20th century. Mr. White's machine appeared to harm him as much as help him. In the late 1970s, federal prosecutors began investigating the personal finances and political conduct of Mr. White and many of his associates.
The investigation gathered steam in 1981, with the appointment of William F. Weld as the United States attorney in Massachusetts. (Mr. Weld, a Republican, was the governor of Massachusetts from 1991 to 1997.)
Among the matters investigated was a planned birthday party for Mr. White's wife in 1981 whose organizers -- associates of Mr. White -- were said to have solicited more than $120,000 from city workers and contractors to be given to the Whites for personal use. Mr. White canceled the party and returned the money after learning of the plan, he said afterward. Over 10 years, the investigation resulted in the conviction of more than 20 city officials, including some of Mr. White's closest aides, and nearly as many businessmen. In April 1989, the United States attorney's office closed the investigation without filing any charges against Mr. White.
Looking back on his administration in an interview with The Boston Globe later that month, Mr. White said: ''There wasn't much corruption. A lot of human folly, at best, but no serious corruption. I mean'' -- and here he deployed a favorite phrase , uttered as a single rushing word -- ''Mother o' God.''
Kevin Hagan White was born in Boston on Sept. 25, 1929. Both his father, Joseph C. White, and his maternal grandfather, Henry E. Hagan, served as presidents of the Boston City Council; Joseph White was also a Massachusetts state legislator. Kevin White earned a bachelor's degree from Williams College in 1952; a law degree from Boston College in 1955; and also studied at the Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration, now the John F. Kennedy School of Government.
In 1960, when he was barely 31, Mr. White was elected Massachusetts secretary of state. He was re-elected three times, serving until 1967 (Mr. White was elected to a four-year term in 1966; before that, the term was two years). That year, he ran his first mayoral campaign, defeating Louise Day Hicks, an ardent busing opponent, by fewer than 13,000 votes to become Boston's 51st mayor. Mr. White was re-elected three times: in 1971, when he defeated Ms. Hicks again (she was by then a United States representative); in 1975; and in 1979.
When Mr. White assumed the mayoralty in January 1968, Boston was a tinderbox. In 1965, Massachusetts had passed the Racial Imbalance Act, which ordered school districts to desegregate or risk losing state financing. The law, the first of its kind in the nation, found little favor in Boston -- especially in the Irish-American working-class area of South Boston.
In 1974, Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. of Federal District Court ordered Boston to begin busing children to integrate its schools. Months of racial violence followed, with dozens of people injured. In some white neighborhoods, protesters hurled slurs, and stones, at arriving school buses full of black children. Mr. White arranged police escorts for the buses and brought in several hundred state troopers to help keep order.
Though considered scholarly and aloof, Mr. White was, in the judgment of many, also exceptionally shrewd. When Dr. King was assassinated, on April 4, 1968, Mr. White feared race riots in his already tense city. By chance, the soul singer James Brown was scheduled to perform in the Boston Garden on April 5. Persuaded that the concert must go ahead as planned, Mr. White quickly arranged for it to be shown live on WGBH, the city's public television station. The broadcast kept people at home in front of their television sets and became popularly known as ''the night James Brown saved Boston.''
From the stage of the Garden that night, Mr. Brown gave Mr. White what was certainly among the highest compliments of his political career, calling him ''a swinging cat.'' But in the years to come, Mr. White and Boston appeared to grow disenchanted with each other. In 1975, on the heels of the busing crisis, Mr. White barely won re-election to a third term. In 1980, he publicly called Boston a ''racist'' city for its continued, sporadically violent, resistance to integration.
During Mr. White's last two terms, his critics contended, this populist reformer of the 1960s became increasingly imperial. After his narrow victory in 1975, he assembled a political machine consciously modeled on that of Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago. Mr. White closed the ''Little City Halls,'' relying instead on old-style ward heelers to deal with the neighborhoods.
Boston also suffered an economic downturn: in 1980, for the first time in the city's 350-year history, municipal employees went two weeks without pay as the city struggled to meet its own payroll.
In 1983, Mr. White announced he would not seek a fifth term.
Questions about Mr. White's finances would bedevil him even after the federal investigation ended: in 1993, without admitting guilt, he agreed to return to the state nearly $25,000 in surplus campaign funds that he had used for flowers, groceries and other personal items. (In 1988, Mr. White had told The Globe that he planned to spend the money on himself out of ''perversity and obstinacy.'')
From 1984 to 2002, Mr. White was the director of the Institute for Political Communication at Boston University.
Mr. White is survived by his wife, the former Kathryn Galvin, whom he married in 1956 and who was herself the daughter of a Boston City Council president; a brother, Terrence, who managed Mr. White's early campaigns; two sons; three daughters; and seven grandchildren.
In 2006, a bronze statue of Mr. White was unveiled to great fanfare in front of Faneuil Hall. At 10 feet tall, it was, as many observers noted, quite a bit larger than life.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Mayor Kevin H. White, right, and his wife, Kathryn, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy and his wife, Joan, in 1970. Left, Mr. White in Boston in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CHAPLIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MAYORS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); RIOTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); LAWYERS (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); POLITICS (64%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (56%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

TED KENNEDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (98%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1305 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: In Cradle of Games, a New Olympic Trial: Debt

BYLINE: By KEN MAGUIRE

 BODY:
ATHENS -- What happens if the country that invented the Olympics cannot afford to produce Olympic athletes?
As this summer's London Games approach, that notion is causing great angst in Greece, where elite athletes are feeling the sting of austerity measures in the face of a historic debt crisis.
The government scrapped a plan to spend nearly $10 million a year on Olympic preparation, according to the Hellenic Olympic Committee. Athletes say their financial stipends are frequently months late, and it is common for coaches to go months without paychecks. Training centers have fallen into disrepair or have closed. A sports psychologist who counsels Greek athletes is working pro bono these days.
Greeks will compete in London, but they will perhaps be limping a bit at the opening ceremony July 27. 
''Young athletes are very skeptical about continuing when they see that the top athletes are not receiving what they deserve, that they are not supported as they should be,'' Vassilios Sevastis, the president of the Greek amateur athletics association, known by the acronym Segas, said through an interpreter. ''This is the major risk.''
Greece has competed in every Summer Olympics since the modern Games began in 1896, when Athens hosted. Even during the Great Depression, Greece managed to send athletes to Los Angeles in 1932 -- the year it defaulted on its external debt. For Winter Games, Greece usually sends a handful of skiers.
To build a team for London, the country's Olympic committee has pursued private-sector sponsors and has increased its dependence on aid from the International Olympic Committee. Now the growing concern is whether Greece, the host of the 2004 Summer Games, which have come to symbolize a decade of overspending, can sustain this course for long.
Like other elite athletes, the pole-vaulter Kostas Filippidis said it had been several months since he received his monthly $1,400 stipend from the athletics federation.
''Of course it's a thought, but I cannot be worried about this every day,'' he said, adding that he lived rent-free in an apartment owned by his father. ''Taking part in the Olympics for my country makes me very proud.''
Filippidis trains indoors at the Olympic Stadium complex. He said the heat was on for just one hour a day. On a recent visit, just a few athletes were training there, and a large plastic container was positioned in a long-jump lane -- not to be leapt over but to catch water leaking from the skylight above.
Alkisti Avramidou, a water polo player, said that ''I think twice'' before spending even one euro and that it was becoming hard to ask her parents for help. Her father, a doctor, has seen his salary cut in half; her mother, a civil servant, has not been paid in several months. With the exception of going to practice, Avramidou avoids driving because she cannot afford gasoline, which costs about $8 a gallon.
Sevastis said the organization received only three-quarters of the $9.6 million budgeted for 2011, and that was after an injection of $1.6 million in December. A month earlier, the association's board suspended operations to protest.
The December infusion allowed coaches and athletes to be paid, Sevastis said, but over all, the association provides money to just 23 elite athletes, compared with 60 two years ago.
A lingering and delicate issue, given Greece's high unemployment, is a jobs program that elite athletes had relied on. In the free-spending days, athletes who won medals or finished high in international competitions were given public-sector jobs to provide salaries while they trained and competed for Greece.
In practice, they became no-show jobs, but a new law requires the athletes to go to work.
''This is a paradox,'' said Sofia Bekatorou, who won a sailing gold medal in Athens and a bronze in Beijing. ''You get the job to do your sport, but then you're not able to do it.''
Bekatorou, a representative of athletes to the Hellenic Olympic Committee, said other countries had used similar programs. Without it, young athletes have little incentive to devote time to training, advocates say.
The way to London, said Spyros Capralos, the president of the olympic committee, involves new relationships with the private sector -- not a simple task in a shrinking economy.
''In the past, it was easier to get money from the Greek state, so not much effort was made or nobody really cared,'' said Capralos, the chief executive of a shipping company and one of the leaders of the Athens 2004 organizing committee.
The Olympic committee's four-year plan was to spend about $40 million, but after the committee received a $10 million installment from the government in 2009, Capralos said, the Olympic preparation budget was eliminated. He has signed new sponsors, including the betting company OPAP, which is contributing $6.5 million. (Greece holds a 34 percent stake in OPAP.) Olympic Air is providing free flights. Some federations, like gymnastics, have found their own sponsors.
Vasilis Tsolakidis, who will be a first-time Olympian in the parallel bars at 32, receives federation support, but said his family's business and personal sponsor, Traffic Oil, made his full-time training possible. He and his wife are raising four children ranging in age from 2 to 11.
Maria Psychountaki, a University of Athens sports psychologist, who has worked with athletes for 22 years, said that in the past two years, they were more stressed, adding, ''They're worried about finding money to live.''
Unlikely sources have chipped in. The International Modern Pentathlon Union donated two new laser pistols and a new precision target, worth $4,500 total, said Joel Bouzou, the pentathlon organization's secretary general.
''We see that they train very hard,'' he said. ''They are very good people, and we want to help them.''
A team of more than 150 athletes -- one of Greece's largest -- went to Beijing in 2008 but captured just four medals, and for the first time since Seoul, South Korea, in 1988, they did not win a gold.
Nearly 50 athletes have already qualified for the London Games. Capralos, a two-time Olympian in water polo, said, ''Whoever qualifies will go.''
That may be possible only because of the International Olympic Committee's solidarity program, which gives grants to needy athletes. Ten Greek athletes -- up from four in Beijing -- are receiving scholarships of about $1,000 a month toward London preparation, according to the national Olympic committee. Women's water polo was awarded a team grant.
The solidarity commission is also giving an extra $100,000 to every national Olympic committee for 2012, citing the world financial crisis, the I.O.C. said. Greece distributed the money to 12 of its athletes.
For the country's Olympic hopefuls, financial challenges in preparing for London may be only the most immediate obstacle. Many athletes around the world are already training for the 2014 Winter Games, and beyond.
''This way is not working,'' said Bekatorou, the athletes' representative on the Hellenic Olympic Committee. ''We need to find another way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A historic debt crisis has affected Greek's Olympic hopefuls, like the women's water polo team. (A1)
Elena Kouvdou, a water polo goalkeeper, training near Athens. Greece has competed in every Summer Olympics since 1896.
 The pole-vaulters Panagiotis Laskaris, left, and Kostas Filippidis working with the trainer Dimitris Kyteas at the Olympic Stadium in Athens. Athletic training centers in Greece have fallen into disrepair or have closed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EIRINI VOURLOUMIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (95%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WATER SPORTS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); ATHLETES (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); WATER POLO (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SKIING (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GREECE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1306 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: A Classic Passes 50

BYLINE: By JEANETTE WINTERSON. 
Jeanette Winterson's memoir, ''Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal?,'' will be published in March.

 BODY:
RENEGADE
Henry Miller and the Making of ''Tropic of Cancer''
By Frederick Turner
244 pp. Yale University Press. $24.95.
What happens when the unreliable narrator turns out to be the cultural critic?
What we write about fiction is never an objective response to a text; it is always part of a bigger mythmaking -- the story we are telling ourselves about ourselves. That story changes. George Orwell, writing in 1940 about Henry Miller, has very different preoccupations from Kate Millett writing about Miller in 1970. Orwell doesn't notice that Miller-women are semi/human sex objects. In fact, his long essay ''Inside the Whale'' barely mentions women at all. Millett does notice that half the world has been billeted to the whorehouse, and wonders what this tells us about both Henry Miller and the psyche and sexuality of the American male.
Norman Mailer needed Miller to be like Shakespeare (this is plain wrong, but the need is interesting); Erica Jong wanted to be Athena to Miller's Zeus -- born straight out of his head and saving him from the Feminist Furies in her book ''The Devil at Large'' (1993). 
And now? It is some 50 years since ''Tropic of Cancer'' was published in the United States by Grove Press. First published in Paris in 1934 by Obelisk, a soft-porn imprint, it had been banned as obscene in America until a landmark legal victory overturned the ban, allowing Grove to print it legally in 1961. The book became an instant best seller, and Henry Miller stood as the priapic prophet of sexual freedom.
Frederick Turner's aim in ''Renegade'' is to explain how ''Tropic of Cancer'' came to be written, came to be banned and came to be an American Classic.
Turner, the editor of ''Into the Heart of Life: Henry Miller at One Hundred,'' tells a good story. Some of it we know: Hopeless Henry, the literary failure nearing 40, is packed off to Paris in 1930 by his wife, June, now tired of supporting him via low-paying jobs and selling her body. In Paris he becomes Hungry Henry, still living off his wife's erratic handouts wired to the American Express office. He sleeps on office floors or in windowless hotel rooms.
He free-falls, hits bottom and remakes himself as Heroic Henry, who has the courage to say ''[expletive] everything'' and write a great book. The book is so great that it takes the world nearly 30 years to face up to it.
The Miller story told this way beats in time with the story at the heart of Ameri/ca's self-image: Can-Do/Rags to Riches/ Boy Makes Good. That Miller was mostly an unemployed and unemployable dropout is at odds with the Puritan New World work ethic, but in line with America's pioneering frontiersman mythology, where the fast-talking huckster has a six-shooter mouth.
Turner cleverly places Miller in a line of American folklore heroes, real and invented, like Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett, Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn. Like Huck Finn, Miller the man wants to avoid growing up. Like Mark Twain, Miller the writer wants the flavor and feel of ''brawlers, outlaws, gamblers . . . whores.''
Turner makes the point that while it took America about 60 years to catch up with Walt Whitman, Twain's impact was immediate. ''Here . . . was America talking -- not writing -- in the outsized, colorful monologue mode that had been a century and more in the making.''
Turner repositions Miller alongside Whitman and Twain as an innovator who is anti-literature, not because he is a phil/istine but because the new world that is America needs a new literature. This must be vivid, not refined, made on the docksides and in the sweatshops, not in the study or the university.
Here's Miller the German-American Brooklyn boy, dragged to work in his father's failing tailoring business, entertaining himself at night at the burlesques, where the bawdy tawdry comic and cruel sexualized humor are as alive and real to Miller as the riverbank was to Twain and the workmen stripped to the waist were to Whitman.
When Miller sailed for Paris, he had a copy of ''Leaves of Grass'' in his luggage.
He left behind him an ex-wife and small daughter for whom he had made no provision, and a current wife, June, who was his lover, muse and banker, until Anais Nin in Paris was able to take over those essential roles.
Turner never troubles himself or the reader with questions about Miller's emotional and financial dependency on women. Miller was obsessed with masculinity but felt no need to support himself or the women in his life. Turner sympathizes with the Miller who must sell his well-cut suits on the streets of Paris for a fraction of their worth, but is apparently indifferent to the fact that June was selling her body on his /behalf.
Indeed, Turner tells us that Miller had to endure ''the most awful humiliation a man might suffer.'' This, presumably, is June's lesbian affair, one she brought home to their apartment, so much so that Miller wrote a novel, ''Lovely Lesbians,'' one of his lifelong rants against women, written around the same time as ''Moloch,'' his rant against Jews.
Miller realized with these failed novels that hatred alone was not enough to sustain a work of fiction. He had plenty of hatred, toward Jews, foreigners and especially America, the newfound land that had spoiled itself and a once-in-a-species opportunity to really begin again.
For Miller, Turner writes, America was ''more mercenary than the meanest whore.'' This is an ugly image, and while it is certainly true of Miller's mind, it seems indicative of Turner's own unconscious thinking. But it usefully presents us with the fused object of Miller's hatred: the body politic of America will be worked over and revenged through the body of Woman.
Miller had attended political meetings as a young man, but he was uninterested in political activism -- and when the war broke out, he left Paris to return to America. Not for him the heroics of Resistance. Yet his lifelong pose was as a warrior fighting with homemade weapons against an indifferent, crushing industrial machine for which nothing mattered but profit and every/thing was for sale.
It never occurred to him that no matter how poor a man is, he can always buy a poorer woman for sex. It does not occur to Turner either, who calls Miller throughout a ''sexual adventurer.'' This sounds randy and swashbuckling and hides the economic reality of prostitution. Miller the renegade wanted his body slaves like any other capitalist -- and as cheaply as possible. When he could not pay, Miller the man and Miller the fictional creation worked out how to cheat women with romance. What they could not buy they stole. No connection is made between woman as commodity and the /''slaughterhouse'' of capitalism that Mil/ler hates.
Turner loves Miller's ''war whoop'' against modern industrial America. Hope is hopeless, but the lone voice of the prophet cries out like a Jeremiah among the brothels. Confusingly, Turner asks us to believe in both the war whoop and Mil/ler's Buddhist-like acceptance of the world as it is. The last chapter is written as a rapturous riff on ''what if'' we could shed our illusions and live in the ''moral'' Miller universe, with its ''realities,'' ''learn how to love it?'' ''Le bel aujourd'hui.''
Well, what if we accept Turner's assertion that ''Cancer'' has traveled from banned book to spiritual classic that tells us ''who we are''? A reasonable objection is that ''we'' cannot include women, unless a woman is comfortable with her identity as a half-witted ''piece of tail.''
The major lost opportunity in Turner's book is any serious discussion of ''Tropic of Cancer'' and the sexual revolution. The overturning of obscenity laws in the United States and Britain and the defiant rise of the porn industry are part of the extra/ordinary 1960s zeitgeist, but also part of a new sex war.
''Cancer'' was published around the same time the pill was approved for use (1960) and Valium hit the market (1963). Drugs that rendered women more sexually available and more docile were in the service of the '60s sexual revolution, which was not about equality for women. Women would have to claim that for themselves. Miller was a useful weapon -- something to drop into the water supply -- against the likes of Betty Friedan (''The Feminine Mystique,'' 1963) and a very different kind of war whoop.
''Renegade'' offers too little social or political background. It seems to me that if part of your mythmaking is to place a writer ahead of his time, we had better know something about his actual world -- the world of the 1930s in New York and Paris. In Paris, for instance, brothels were legal, but women couldn't vote -- the exact reverse of the America Miller had left behind.
There is beauty as well as hatred in ''Cancer,'' and it deserves its place on the shelf. Yet the central question it poses was stupidly buried under censorship in the 1930s, and gleefully swept aside in the permissiveness of the 1960s. Kate Millett asked the question in the 1970s, but the effort to ignore it is prodigious. A new round of mythmaking is ignoring it once more. The question is not art versus pornography or sexuality versus censorship or any question about achievement. The question is: Why do men revel in the degradation of women?

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review on Jan. 29 about ''Renegade: Henry Miller andthe Making of 'Tropic of Cancer,''' by Frederick Turner, misspelled the surname of anauthor who wrote about Miller in the 1970s. She is Kate Millett , not Millet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After 'Tropic of Cancer' was published in 1961, Henry Miller stood as the priapic prophet of sexual freedom. (PHOTOGRAPH OF HENRY MILLER BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES (1950S)) (BR12) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (69%)

TITLE: Renegade: Henry Miller and the Making of 'Tropic of Cancer' (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012



1307 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Bracing for $40,000 At City Private Schools

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and RACHEL OHM; Christopher Reeve contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THERE are certain mathematical realities associated with New York City private schools: There are more students than seats at the top-tier schools, at least three sets of twins will be vying head to head for spots in any class, and already-expensive tuition can only go up.
Way up.
Over the past 10 years, the median price of first grade in the city has gone up by 48 percent, adjusted for inflation, compared with a 35 percent increase at private schools nationally -- and just 24 percent at an Ivy League college -- according to tuition data provided by 41 New York City K-12 private schools to the National Association of Independent Schools. 
Indeed, this year's tuition at Columbia Grammar and Preparatory ($38,340 for 12th grade) and Horace Mann ($37,275 for the upper school) is higher than Harvard's ($36,305). Those 41 schools (out of 61 New York City private schools in the national association) provided enough data to enable a 10-year analysis. (Over all, inflation caused prices in general to rise 27 percent over the past decade.)
The median 12th-grade tuition for the current school year was $36,970, up from $21,100 in 2001-2, according to the national association's survey. Nationally, that figure rose to $24,240 from $14,583 a decade ago.
With schools already setting tuition rates for the 2012-13 school year -- Brearley's is $38,200 -- parents at Horace Mann, Columbia Grammar and Trinity are braced to find out whether they will join families at Riverdale Country School in the $40,000-a-year club. (Riverdale actually charges $40,450 for 12th grade.) In fact, it appears to be a question not of ''if,'' but ''when.''
''Within one to two years, every independent school will cost more than $40,000,'' said one board member at a top school who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the school had not yet set tuition.
And that is before requests for the annual fund, tickets to the yearly auction gala and capital campaigns to build a(nother) gym.
Parents are reluctant to complain, at least with their names attached, for fear of hurting students' standing (or siblings' admissions chances). But privately, many questioned paying more for the same. ''The school's always had an amazing teacher-to-student ratio, learning specialists and art programs with great music and theater,'' said one mother whose children attend the Dalton School ($36,970 a year). ''It was great a decade ago and great now.''
''They are outrageous,'' said Dana Haddad, a private admissions consultant, referring to tuitions. ''People don't want to put a price tag on their children's future, so they are willing to pay more than many of them can afford.''
Administrators at several of New York's top schools attributed the tuition inflation to rising teacher salaries, ever-expanding programs and renovations to aging buildings. They noted that tuition still covered only about 80 percent of the cost of educating each child (that is what all the fund-raising is about). As at most companies, a majority of the costs -- and the fastest-growing increases -- come from salaries and benefits, especially as notoriously low-paying private schools try to compete with public school compensation.
''Some New York schools have had a 5, 10 or as high as 30 percent increase in the cost of their medical plans,'' said Mark Lauria, the executive director of the New York State Association of Independent Schools.
And paying teachers is only a piece of the puzzle. Leman Manhattan Preparatory School has a gym whose floor is cleaned twice a day. The Trinity School has three theaters, six art studios, two tennis courts, a pool and a diving pool. Poly Prep Country Day School raised $2 million to open a learning center this year that has six full-time employees offering one-on-one help with subjects as varied as note-taking and test-taking.
''Parents are just expecting more and more of independent schools,'' said David B. Harman, the headmaster at Poly Prep. ''Trying to meet that demand, that expectation, is expensive.''
But some parents and school consultants note that many of the schools have long had lush facilities and expansive academic and extracurricular offerings. What keeps the prices rising, they say, is the seemingly endless stream of people more than willing to pay them.
The median number of applications to New York schools has increased 32 percent over the past decade, according to the association, and in some schools the acceptance rate is staggeringly low. At Trinity, only 2.4 percent of children from families with no previous connection to the school were admitted to kindergarten last year. Far from being deterred by the sticker prices, more families seem to be hiring consultants -- at an additional cost -- in hopes of getting a leg up.
One consulting firm, Manhattan Private School Advisors, said it worked with 1,431 families this school year, up from 605 three years ago. The company's fee has gone up, too: It was $21,500 this year and $18,500 three years ago.
''In the rest of the country, the admission funnel is shrinking, and you have to moderate tuition increases,'' said Patrick F. Bassett, head of the National Association of Independent Schools. ''But if the pool is six, seven, or eight deep for applications for preschool -- that's way higher than for maybe 20 colleges in the whole country -- there is no perceived need not to increase it.''
For their money, students often get exotic offerings. At Poly Prep, with 983 students on two campuses in Brooklyn, there are five sections of Level I Mandarin. Dalton offers Zen Dance; Saint Ann's has Roman Travel Writing; and at Columbia Grammar, there is a theater class on ''The Nature of Revenge.'' Classes are small, teachers often have Ph.D.'s, and most graduates are aimed at equally top-tier colleges.
But even a school with no track record can charge a boatload of money. Avenues, the for-profit start-up school set to open in Chelsea in September, will charge $39,750 starting in nursery school, which might make it the most expensive preschool in the city. (The school will offer bilingual classes and a longer school day than most early-childhood programs.)
And at some schools, there are fees on top of tuition: At Spence ($37,500) parents pay extra for Parents Association dues ($35), plus a registration fee ($75) and class dues ($25 or $50 depending on grade), while at Friends Seminary, there are additional fees like $800 for ''building and technology enhancement.''
In a twist, despite the lingering recession, the percentage of students receiving financial aid has not increased alongside tuition. Of the national association's 61 member schools in New York City, 21 submitted financial aid data going back a decade.
At those schools this school year, 18.5 percent of students received financial aid, the same figure as a decade ago (it had inched up to 20 percent in 2010-11). Nationally, 20.6 percent of students at a sample of 313 schools now receive financial aid, compared with 12.9 percent in 2001-2.
The median financial aid grant, though, has increased -- it was $25,543 this year in New York City, according to the data from the 21 schools, up an inflation-adjusted 41 percent from $14,261 in 2001-2. Nationally, the median was $11,953, up 27.9 percent from $7,359 a decade ago, when adjusted for inflation.
For many parents, the sticker prices have ceased to shock. Instead, there are gripes about the grueling entry process and many of the ancillary costs that now seem nonnegotiable -- private tutors, spring training in Florida for sports, unpaid internships at top research institutes to bolster college resumes. Amanda Uhry, who founded Manhattan Private School Advisors in 2001, said that in her entire career, no one had ever asked about the cost of the schools to which their children planned to apply.
Mary Watson, a mother at Saint Ann's -- where she once taught and sat on the board -- said that given the competitiveness for admission, many parents don't shop by price. ''They're looking at where will students get into college, what awards have been won, what extracurriculars are available,'' she said. (Saint Ann's, with $25,000 tuition in nursery school, is considered a relative bargain.)
Unlike public schools, which have faced severe cutbacks in the face of dwindling state and local revenues, private schools seem only to add courses. Take foreign languages. Schools used to offer French and Spanish. Then came German and Russian. Japanese was introduced when that country looked poised to dominate the global economy. A few years ago, Mandarin was a must-have, and now many schools offer Arabic.
''Offering Mandarin is a way to prepare students for the 21st-century world we live in,'' said John Allman, Trinity's headmaster.
Also unlike New York public schools, which are required to be in session 180 days a year, private schools set their own schedules. At Horace Mann, where the parents of kindergartners are paying $37,695 with additional fees, the children attended 155 days last year. For those doing the math, that's $243 a day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STIFF COMPETITION: At Horace Mann, left, parents of kindergartners pay $37,695 with additional fees. The Dalton School costs $36,970 a year and offers Zen Dance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) CHARTS: New York City Tuition Higher and Rising: Private-school tuition in New York City is higher than the national median, and increased at a faster inflation-adjusted rate since 2001.
New York City private-school tuition for 2011-12: Tuition for kindergarten through 12th grade is more than $35,000 at some area schools. Some schools charge fees on top of tuition. Ranges are shown when tuition increases with grade level. (Sources: National Association for Independent Schools
College Board
 schools' admissions publications, representatives and news releases) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (89%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT SCHOOLS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1308 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: The City Is Seeking Visibility, Not Trouble

BYLINE: By DAVID GREISING. 
dgreising@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Careful planning always precedes summit meetings like those scheduled for May in Chicago for the Group of 8 economic powers and the NATO military alliance. But events rarely unfold as planned.
Host cities were tarnished after at least five recent G-8 summit conferences. The 2010 meeting, outside Toronto, gave rise to claims that the government official who organized the event had improperly directed construction projects to his electoral district.
When Italian officials held the 2009 meeting in L'Aquila, they were criticized for hosting the event so soon after an earthquake had devastated the region. 
In 2008, Japanese officials wanted to showcase the host hotel in Hokkaido, only to be told such lavish accommodations were inappropriate while negotiating aid to Africa.
The 2005 meeting, in Gleneagles, Scotland, was upstaged when terrorists set off a bomb in London, apparently to protest the meeting. In Genoa, Italy, in 2001, a protester was shot and killed during an antiglobalization riot.
Chicago officials have said they expect to keep protesters and security threats well in hand. Last week, they sought to turn attention to the reasons the city campaigned to host the joint meetings: the potential for an economic boost and the opportunity to increase the city's worldwide visibility and its long-term economic vitality.
Two successful summit meetings during a weeklong stretch in mid-May could spur increased tourism and convention business, boosters said. The visibility and development efforts surrounding the meetings may help attract new corporate headquarters.
''If you want to be a global city, you've got to act like a global city,'' said Lori Healey, a former chief of staff to Mayor Richard M. Daley and a top official in the city's unsuccessful bid for the 2016 Olympics, who is heading the planning effort for the G-8 and NATO meetings.
The city is laying specific and coordinated plans, according to a source involved in the effort. Officials from the city and World Business Chicago hope to brief economic and trade ministers and others traveling with their heads of state about Chicago's development strategy. They plan a tour of industrial corridors and technology centers and also plan to brief officials on case studies of multinational corporations that have moved their operations to Chicago.
Deputy Mayor Mark Angelson said the city was trying to do more than just improve its image abroad. ''In terms of long-term impact of the summits, we are enticing overseas companies to come here and set up their North American headquarters or headquarters of the Americas,'' Mr. Angelson said.
World Business Chicago, a public-private development agency controlled by Mayor Rahm Emanuel, has recruited business, civic and labor leaders to complete the city's economic-development agenda in time to present it to visiting dignitaries.
Longer-range efforts are also under way. The Chicago Council on Global Affairs, which plans a series of public forums before the conferences, has also formed a high-powered study group -- headed by Michael Moskow, a senior fellow at the Council and the former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, and William A. Osborn, the former chairman of Northern Trust -- seeking to identify strategies for increasing foreign companies' investment in the Chicago area.
Such efforts are focused on long-term results, using the conferences as a starting point. ''The value of summits like these is not transactional. The summits are a piece of a strategy,'' said Michael Sacks, who is vice chairman of World Business Chicago and a board member of The Chicago News Cooperative.
In the short term, the Chicago Convention and Visitors' Bureau is seeking to increase the number of foreign visitors by nearly 45 percent over the next two years. Foreign visitors spend far more than domestic travelers do, but only about 4 percent of such visitors come to Chicago, placing it only 10th among United States cities. If the city achieves its goals, it could boost annual receipts from foreign tourists to $6.5 billion, a significant hike from current receipts of about $4.5 billion a year.
The city has its work cut out. Ms. Healy recalled how officials circling the globe during the 2016 Olympic bidding were startled to learn how little was known about Chicago by business and political leaders around the world. Corporate-relocation executives said ignorance about the city was common among corporate executives both in the United States and abroad.
''They have an idea of Chicago that is 20 or 30 years out of date,'' said Ed McCallum, senior principal of the Greenville, S.C. relocation advisory firm McCallum Sweeney Consulting.
Summit organizers have declined to offer detailed estimates of the economic impact or the cost to the city of the meetings. They expressed dismay last week when Gerald J. Roper, the longtime head of the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce, told The Chicago Sun-Times that downtown businesses should post security outside their buildings during summit sessions, allow employees to work from home and even prepare evacuation plans in case of trouble. Indeed, disruptions to businesses -- whether from out-of-control protests or from the virtual lockdown that can take place when many world leaders convene -- are among the generally underplayed side effects of summits.
The most definitive cost-benefit estimates to date come from a study ordered by the Scottish government to measure the impact of the G-8 meeting at Gleneagles in 2005. Researchers determined that while businesses received $93 million in government payments and $35 million from summit-conference-related events, disruptions caused by the event cost retailers $11 million in tourism spending and $13 million in lost sales. The bottom line was that the meeting generated a net $112 million in immediate economic activity, researchers found.
Jamil Satchu, a vice president at L. E. K. Consulting, who vetted the cost and revenue assumptions put forward by Chicago 2016 and is an expert on the impact of mega-events, said it was a mistake to focus too much attention on short-term measures.
''The trickle-down effect of the summits will be relatively confined,'' Mr. Satchu said. ''Ultimately, the benefits are going to be very much business-community-focused. That's fine. There's nothing wrong with that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man protesting Mayor Rahm Emanuel's proposed restrictions on NATO and Group of 8 protests was arrested earlier this month inside City Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (69%); TERRORISM (68%); OLYMPICS (68%); TOURISM (66%); CASE STUDIES (65%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1309 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: A Family's Burdens Grow

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
When Thomas Holton began visiting the Lam family in 2003, he was struck by how much life they fit inside their 350-square-foot apartment on Ludlow Street in Manhattan. Three small children, their parents, relatives and friends, a bathtub in the kitchen, with clothes racks above the table. It was a jumble that fascinated him for its grit, warmth and can-do optimism. 
But as Mr. Holton got to know the Lams, he became less interested in their square-foot compromises and more intrigued with them as individuals, not only as immigrants. ''It became much more a story about any family,'' said Mr. Holton, 42. ''It didn't matter that they were Chinese. It became much more about life in general and the dynamics of a family.''
He photographed the Lams from 2003 to 2005, earning some acclaim, and he continued to visit them frequently. Over the years, he began to notice subtle shifts as the children grew older and the parents' struggles in New York took a toll. In 2010, he decided it was time to shoot pictures of the family again.
Mr. Holton's new photographs of the Lams depict more weariness than optimism. What once looked like an adventure now looks like a burden. Michael, 15, the oldest son and a sophomore at Stuyvesant High School, is weighed down by his homework and household chores. His father, Steven - who was unemployed for a stretch in recent years but now has a job - is often captured alone and pensive. Shirley, who used to care full-time for her children, now works long hours outside the home caring for an elderly woman.
Life has become harder and lonelier, and the cramped quarters feel ever tighter.
''There's a tension sometimes you can't air out because it's so tight,'' Mr. Holton said.
The new photographs are unflinching, and perhaps even more intimate, even if they are, as Mr. Holton calls them, ''a little heavier in tone.''
''I tried to capture the new reality,'' he said. ''Life is messy.''
Follow @nytimesphoto and @samdolnick on Twitter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a caption with a Lens blog picture essay in some editions last Sunday about a family that lives in cramped quarters in Chinatown misstated the employment status of the father, Steven Lam. While he has been unemployed in recent years, as the article correctly noted, he is not currently unemployed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 2005: The Lams near the dinner table in their 350-square-foot apartment. From left are Steven, the father
Cindy
Franklin
Shirley, the mother
and Michael.
TENSE TIMES: Clockwise from above, from 2010 and 2011: Cindy Lam, now 11, with the 102-year-old woman her mother looks after
Franklin, 14, online at a friend's house
Shirley, drinking soup at the home of her elderly charge
Steven, who is unemployed, at home
 and Michael, 15, sleeping on the floor. Thomas Holton says the optimism he found in the Lams' apartment when he photographed them regularly from 2003 to 2005 has dissipated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS HOLTON, COURTESY OF SASHA WOLF GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



1310 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: When Skyscrapers Are Your Screen

BYLINE: By ADRIENNE DAY

 BODY:
THERE is a commercial building at the intersection of Canal Street and West Broadway with a whitewashed and windowless side that most people would consider an eyesore. But for J R Skola on a recent evening it was a six-story canvas for a traveling work called ''Space Monkey.''
Mr. Skola, a founder of the Dawn of Man art collective, used a laptop, a portable generator and a projector strapped to the roof of his car to cast on the building an enormous video of a dancing monkey (really a five-minute loop of a friend in a costume). While the creature flapped its arms and kicked its feet, people stopped on the crowded street to gawk and snap photos. ''When we project this in the Lower East Side,'' Mr. Skola said, ''drunk people try to dance like the monkey.'' 
Mr. Skola and his creative partner Max Nova create guerrilla projections; that is, works that are shown in public without any of the necessary approvals. They are part of a ''video mapping'' art scene that is bubbling up in New York, London and other urban centers. While video projection art is not new, it has become much more ambitious thanks to recent advancements in 3-D-projection mapping, a technology that helps create the illusion of multidimensional movement across or around the contours of any surface, regardless of its shape. And cheaper versions of video mapping software are now on the market, opening up the medium to a wider array of artists. A departure from box-office fare like ''Avatar,'' these projections require no special glasses to perceive them in three dimensions; popular online clips, like one of hands playing a building like it's a piano, by Urbanscreen, a company in Germany, demonstrate the seductive power of this medium.
''This is a new world where artists can show their work in any location,'' Dave Haroldsen, a creative director for a global tech-arts festival called the Creators Project, said. ''It's brilliant and shocking and new, and it really speaks to youth,'' said Mr. Haroldsen, who represents Intel, one of the sponsors of the movable festival.
One of the most prominent festivals dedicated to the art form is the long-running ''Fete des Lumieres in Lyon. The tradition there of placing candles in household windows in honor of the Virgin Mary stretches back more than 150 years, and the modern incarnation of the festival began incorporating 3-D-mapping techniques in recent years. On Dec. 8, the opening day of the festival, the installation ''Urban Flipper'' turned the facade of an old theater that once played host to Sarah Bernhardt into the world's largest interactive pinball machine, adorned with clownlike touches that resembled a large white mustache and six orange eyebrows. Balls ricocheted around the facade, bouncing off whiskers and colliding with eyebrows, accompanied by a barrage of video-arcade noises and exhilarating light effects.
In the United States experimental video projection festivals have begun popping up on both coasts and in between. Ethan Vogt, producer of the Bring to Light: Nuit Blanche New York festival in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, says that this medium can play a critical role in the evolution of public art: ''It is too important to exist in just a guerrilla way.''
Matthew Clark, a founder of the London collective United Visual Artists, said that what excites him the most about video mapping technology is that it enables him to break away from the traditional flat rectangle that most people associate with film. ''It's quite liberating,'' Mr. Clark said. ''Suddenly anything can be your canvas.'' (His team also works with motion-activated sculpture, like the interactive light-and-sound cube that responds to human presence installed at the Coachella Valley Music and Art Festival last year. It later traveled to New York during a Creators Project event in October). The 2012 Olympic Delivery Authority has commissioned United Visual Artists to join in designing a ''stadium'' to be made solely of fabric and light.
Some video mapping art has an activist tinge. In November Mark Read, an artist and activist, organized the Occupy Wall Street projection, nicknamed the ''Bat Signal,'' and recruited Mr. Nova and Mr. Skola for their large-scale projection savvy. Mr. Read said he is now helping to create a sort of ''Batmobile'' with projection capabilities that will visually spread the word that the Occupy movement is still alive. ''It's like Commissioner Gordon sending out a call for aid and a call to arms,'' he said.
Along similar lines, about six years ago the new-media artist Evan Roth helped pioneer the use of a digital laser pen and a video projector to write graffiti in public spaces, much as a traditional graffiti artist would use a spray can. Art collectives in cities like Berlin and Belo Horizonte, Brazil, now use Mr. Roth's methods to tag buildings, bridges and schoolyards. ''It's the kind of activism that isn't just making a sign,'' said Mr. Roth, 33. ''And it's something people my age might be interested in taking part of irregardless of the politics.'' But despite the potential subversive thrill, this graffiti lasts only as long as the projector is on, which is why video sites like YouTube are vital in preserving it.
The tools of 3-D projection mapping have also infiltrated another arena: music. Artists like the rapper Drake and the electronic musicians Skrillex and Amon Tobin recently toured the United States with mind-boggling stagecraft that employed video mapping. Mr. Tobin's recent ''ISAM'' tour, for instance, featured a giant cube structure upon which he projected imagery reminiscent of sci-fi classics like ''Blade Runner'' and ''Star Wars.''
''Everyone's first experience with technology is Princess Leia appearing as a hologram,'' he said. ''We wanted to tweak all of the proper nerd cues.''
In what could be a major development for digital mapping in the United States, the New York City Economic Development Corporation is soliciting bids for a large-scale ''interactive lighting initiative'' in Lower Manhattan for late 2012, with $1 million in support. ''We want to create a new attraction for Lower Manhattan that will draw people downtown, so that they can appreciate the incredible transformations occurring there,'' said Seth Pinsky, president of the Economic Development Corporation. ''It's a relatively cost-effective way of reaching a large audience.''
Aware of the impact of this medium, many corporate customers are using elements of 3-D-projection mapping in their marketing campaigns. In November the electronic-music artist Deadmau5 collaborated with Nokia on a live mapping event in London, with the city's Millbank Tower as its rippling and gyrating canvas. Some video-mapping artists look askance at such commercialism. ''At the end of the show, when the building turned into a giant Nokia phone, everyone booed,'' Mr. Clark said with apparent glee.
But Mr. Nova, who in addition to his guerrilla creations works on projects for clients like the Museum of Modern Art and Heinz Ketchup, seems comfortable on both sides of the art versus commerce divide.
And back on Canal Street a car pulled over to take a closer look at the gyrating Space Monkey. The driver rolled down his window. ''Hey!'' he yelled. ''Is this a commercial or is this art?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from near right, Evan Roth's graffiti analysis piece in Tudela, Spain
''Flash:Light,'' from Nuit Blanche, New York
''Space Monkey'' on Canal Street in Manhattan
and ''Bat Signal for the 99%,'' also in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN ROTH
RYAN MUIR
LUCAS FLORES PIRAN/DAWN OF MAN
BRANDON NEUBAUER)
At left, a projection at the Brooklyn Masonic Temple accompanying a performance by the electronic musician Amon Tobin, and bottom left, ''Urban Flipper,'' a pinball machine on the facade of a theater in Lyon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MURIEL CHAULET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); DANCE (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); APPROVALS (52%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NAVARRE, SPAIN (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (59%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1311 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SLAP SHOT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: For Thomas, Strong Stand And Maybe Wobbly Footing

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL

 BODY:
What a week it was for Tim Thomas, hockey's most consistently incandescent goalie. At the end of it, rumors were flying that Thomas's days with the Bruins - the team he led last season to the Stanley Cup - are numbered.
It all began Monday when Thomas, whose political beliefs were not widely known, boycotted the Bruins' visit with President Obama at the White House. Instead Thomas released a brief statement on his Facebook page that began, ''I believe the Federal government has grown out of control, threatening the Rights, Liberties, and Property of the People.'' 
Thomas faced a storm of criticism from commentators, fans and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, but he received support from Tea Party types who admired his Glenn Beck-like disdain for both the Democratic and Republican parties. At the All-Star draft Thursday, Thomas reasserted his stand before reporters and a live television audience across the continent.
''I followed my conscience,'' he said. ''Everything I said in my statement I believed to be the absolute truth.''
Most reporters find it a treat to speak with Thomas after games. At 37, he is engaging, intelligent and thoughtful. He has spoken affectingly about growing up in straitened circumstances in and around economically devastated Flint, Mich.
He could have wound up with the political views of a fellow Davison High School alumnus, the left-wing documentarian Michael Moore. But instead Thomas is more in line with Ted Nugent, a fellow Michigan bow-hunter.
It was probably a tip-off last summer when Thomas was told that Moore was a big admirer. Thomas had no reaction, a silence that, in retrospect, said a lot.
How odd it now seems that Thomas has spent his hockey career in places where his beliefs are distinctly in a minority: the University of Vermont; Finland; Sweden, where he made a name for himself after being ignored in North America; and finally Boston.
The last Boston sports figure to skip a White House visit was Red Sox General Manager Theo Epstein, who stayed away in 2008 during the presidency of George W. Bush, though he made no public statement. A Red Sox player, Manny Ramirez, sat that one out, too. But neither created the ruckus that Thomas's boycott has.
Beyond that, hockey players rarely boycott events for political reasons. The last before Thomas that anyone could recall was in 2002, when Owen Nolan, then the San Jose captain, skipped an exhibition game in Vancouver claiming a back injury. That meant he would not take a ceremonial face-off from Queen Elizabeth. As it happened, Nolan had family in Northern Ireland and held Irish republican views, but the whole thing unfolded quietly with no public statements.
Thomas's teammates were well aware of his political beliefs, and their public statements in the last week did not point to a rift in the Bruins' dressing room.
''In the end, if it's a good or a bad choice, he's still my teammate, so I'm still going to have his back no matter what he goes through,'' Tyler Seguin said at the All-Star draft, echoing what other Bruins have said about Thomas.
But team management might feel differently. The Bruins' president, Cam Neely, said it ''would have been nice'' for Thomas to attend and that he had ''concerns'' about how the controversy would affect him.
Thomas's no-trade clause expires at the end of this season, and General Manager Peter Chiarelli may be tempted to trade Thomas and his $5-million-a-year cap hit. Thomas's 24-year-old backup, Tuukka Rask, has been a top-notch goalie in all three of his N.H.L. seasons.
There may be some resentment on Thomas's side as well. A season and a half ago, when he was nursing a hip injury and was playing merely well rather than at his usual stratospheric level, the Bruins shopped Thomas around. That slight bothered him. He removed the Bruins' black and gold colors from his pads and took the team crest off his mask.
Thomas was miffed again last season when, after a couple of off games amid a record-breaking season, Neely suggested he might not start in the playoffs.
Now, speculation is rampant that Thomas will leave Boston. Other teams are already licking their chops about what it could mean to have the greatest goalie of the era - and the most politically controversial one - in their nets.
Ovechkin Takes a Pass
In the past few years, the All-Star Game has been something of a showcase for Alex Ovechkin, the wildly popular Washington Capitals captain whose electric play and charismatic showmanship made him perhaps hockey's most appealing performer.
Although Ovechkin hasn't been the high-flying, high-scoring sensation of past seasons, he was selected to play in this weekend's events in Ottawa. But when the league suspended him three games for an illegal check last week, Ovechkin announced he was backing out.
Ovechkin said he was disappointed in the ruling because he did not feel he had done much wrong. Asked why he was pulling out of the All-Star Game, he initially replied: ''My heart is not there. I got suspended, so why do I have to go there?'' He added that he felt he would be a distraction.
In the past, the N.H.L. has punished players who refused to attend; it is a violation of the standard players contract. But the league chose not to make a bad situation worse and let Ovechkin stay home.
Regardless, his withdrawal sparked some angry reaction in the news media and from at least one fellow player. Andy McDonald of the St. Louis Blues called it classless on his Twitter account.
Hockey players have long had a tradition of generosity in promoting the sport. Tales of the Blackhawks regularly holding up the team bus during the 1960s while Bobby Hull signed every autograph still resonate decades later.
Fans, too, have always felt these examples set their heroes apart. It would be of little surprise if their affection for Ovechkin now changed.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Ovechkin, who was suspended three games for an illegal check last week, backed out of the All-Star Game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN K. ALLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); GLENN BECK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); FLINT, MI, USA (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1312 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, January 29th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 29, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 14, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1151HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an appendectomy. 222AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences. 3312STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 4516KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 5432BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 6651UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 71110THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins Publishers) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course. 81THE OBAMAS, by Jodi Kantor. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) The ups and downs of building a life in the White House. 9710THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 10810CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 111ELIZABETH THE QUEEN, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Random House Publishing Group) The public and private lives of Queen Elizabeth II as she approaches her Diamond Jubilee. 12947THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of a woman whose cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. 131032IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) William E. Dodd, the U.S. ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin. 141GREEDY BASTARDS, by Dylan Ratigan. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The host of MSNBC&#8217;s &#8220;Dylan Ratigan Show&#8221; proposes solutions to political and economic problems. 151A UNIVERSE FROM NOTHING, by Lawrence Krauss. (Free Press) A cosmologist&#8217;s account of how our universe evolved, based on experimental observations and new theories.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt)
17. SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing)
18. WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton)
19. IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing)
20. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
21. JACK KENNEDY, by Chris Matthews. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
22. AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse)
23. THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
24. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
25. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
26. BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
27. PITY THE BILLIONAIRE, by Thomas Frank. (Holt)
28. AN INVISIBLE THREAD, by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski. (Howard)
29. THE OPERATORS, by Michael Hastings. (Penguin Group)
30. MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
31. WORTH FIGHTING FOR, by Lisa Niemi Swayze. (Atria Books)
32. BEING GEORGE WASHINGTON, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions)
33. BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
34. ---------- FINISH FIRST, by Tucker Max. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
35. IMPERFECT JUSTICE, by Jeff Ashton with Lisa Pulitzer. (HarperCollins Publishers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); HISTORY (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%); ATHLETES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (55%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1313 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, January 29th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 29, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 14, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1151HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 2312STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 322AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences. 4451UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his bomber went down over the Pacific. 5516KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts one of the most consequential episodes of American history: the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 61THE OBAMAS, by Jodi Kantor. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) The ups and downs of building a life in the White House. 7641BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 86THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins Publishers) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course. 9710CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 101036IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 111ELIZABETH THE QUEEN, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Random House Publishing Group) The public and private lives of Queen Elizabeth II as she approaches her Diamond Jubilee. 12811WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton) A memoir of a childhood of physical and mental abuse beginning in first grade and continuing for years. 131351THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 141A UNIVERSE FROM NOTHING, by Lawrence Krauss. (Free Press) A cosmologist&#8217;s account of how our universe evolved, based on experimental observations and new theories. 151127A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman describes being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 161GREEDY BASTARDS, by Dylan Ratigan. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The host of MSNBC&#8217;s &#34;Dylan Ratigan Show&#8221; proposes solutions to problems of banking, education, health care and dependence on foreign oil. 17912THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 181222AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 192020STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt) The actor charts his professional path from teen idol to &#34;The West Wing.&#34; 201411IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing) Observations from the comedy writer and actress. 211510AN INVISIBLE THREAD, by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski. (Howard Books) The unlikely 30-year friendship between a sales executive and a destitute boy. 221715SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 232234MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury) A memoir of one-night stands. 242442THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 252524THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) The tale of a great architect (Daniel Hudson Burnham) and a serial killer (H. H. Holmes), who were linked by the Chicago World&#39;s Fair of 1893.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
27. WELCOME TO YOUR BRAIN, by Sandra Aamodt and Sam Wang. (Bloomsbury)
28. MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W.W. Norton &#38; Company)
29. WORTH FIGHTING FOR, by Lisa Niemi Swayze. (Atria Books)
30. ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
31. THE OPERATORS, by Michael Hastings. (Penguin Group)
32. WHEN I STOP TALKING, YOU&#39;LL KNOW I&#39;M DEAD, by Jerry Weintraub with Rich Cohen. (Grand Central Publishing)
33. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
34. JACK KENNEDY, by Chris Matthews. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
35. THEN AGAIN, by Diane Keaton. (Random House Publishing)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); HISTORY (86%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); ATHLETES (63%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (54%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (74%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1314 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: A Premeditated Opinion on City Schools

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for The Chicago News Cooperative.
If Rahm Emanuel can prepare Chicago's public school students for life as well as he prepares himself for news conferences, our prayers will be answered.
The mayor served loyally in both the Clinton and Obama White Houses as the commanders in chief rehearsed for major public appearances and left little to chance. He has brought this oratorical modus operandi, if not a teleprompter, to City Hall.
He is intellectually nimble but prefers the premeditated, which is a departure from his predecessor. Richard M. Daley was more laissez-faire, a rhetorical Mount St. Helens, whose spontaneous eruptions reflected a decidedly reactive approach to the news media. 
The Missile preps for public appearances by practicing responses to potential questions. It's about control, staying on message and not exhibiting his own volcanic side. And when he's got something to get off his chest, he'll plot how to open the right door, whether or not anybody else is particularly interested.
He had a separate agenda last week when the news media was beckoned for the announcement that Mary Dempsey, the longtime head of the Chicago Public Library, was departing and would be replaced by Brian Bannon, a digital maven in the San Francisco library system.
The mayor's ulterior motive involved getting out his message about a longer school day. Chicago has the shortest of any major system, at 5 hours 45 minutes, and he wants it as long as seven and a half hours.
An aide suggested to some news media at the announcement that Mr. Emanuel would be amenable to an inquiry on the topic. An article from The Chicago Tribune that morning detailed the chagrin of some parents at a well-performing elementary school that had already extended its day to 7 hours 30 minutes.
Mr. Emanuel is of that admirable but shrinking minority that devours newspapers and reads to the end of stories. If we could only clone him! He was displeased that the school's survey results, which showed that only 6.7 percent of parents were against their longer day, was left to the penultimate paragraph.
A mayoral lieutenant called the principal, who revealed that the disaffection has remained small, even dropping over two surveys, and that a growing number, 87 percent, was fully supportive. That context was not in the story.
So the mayor whipped through the library announcements as if he was late to catch a plane to his pre-Valentine's Day skiing getaway. He asked for questions but they all pertained to the concerns about May's NATO and Group of 8 meetings. A city steeped in dealing with far larger assemblages is acting as if it's a one-stoplight hamlet on the cusp of hosting the Taliban, Al Qaeda, every Occupy protester and more drunk suburban teenagers than surface for Taste of Chicago.
But then the Missile got his longer day question. Artistic directors at the Goodman and Steppenwolf theaters would have been impressed as he performed a 5 minute 10-second monologue, slapping around the newspaper article and systematically making his case.
He concluded with a mildly sarcastic, ''Have a good day,'' and then he left. Standing nearby, Mr. Bannon, our new librarian, had received an informative sneak preview of his new boss.
A longer day is an educational necessity and a signature mayoral goal. But it's no cure-all, despite the lack of equivocation from some news media cheerleaders.
What is forgotten are daunting social, cultural, economic and demographic complexities.
A longer school day works, but only in tandem with many other changes. Studies of nations outperforming the United States are far from definitive on a link between the number of hours and results.
Meanwhile, the mayor's insistence that the longer day would merely get us up to par with other major districts is debatable. His proposed day might vault us beyond our big-city peers and ahead of every Illinois district except Winnebago County (population 295,000).
If Chicago schools wind up with a seven and a half hour day, hopefully cheerleaders in the news media will urge similar change for those districts that will be comparative laggards -- like La Grange (six and a half hours), Wilmette (six hours), Oak Park (six hours) and Evanston (six and a half hours), according to Illinois State Board of Education data.
But one can understand the Missile's frustrations, especially the parental whining. It's not just his enemies out to derail him but those who really should be his friends.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MAYORS (89%); LIBRARIES (87%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CITIES (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (75%); PARENTS (68%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TALIBAN (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SUBURBS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1315 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: How Long Can the Market Forget About the Pain?

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE year has started so splendidly for stock investors that it may seem churlish to point out that there are any lingering problems at all.
Despite a ho-hum week, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has already gained more than 4.6 percent in the young year, and emerging markets have done even better. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong has risen more than 11 percent, even counting time off for the Lunar New Year holiday.
In the United States, some strategists' year-end targets are already at hand. Jim McDonald, the chief investment strategist for Northern Trust, for example, projected that the S.& P. would finish the year at 1,330. It briefly surpassed that mark last week.
''The market may have front-ended its returns for the entire year,'' Mr. McDonald said. For the moment, he is not upgrading his forecast. 
Others are similarly cautious. Jeff Applegate, the chief investment officer at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, expects that both ''Europe and the United States will slip into recession this year.'' Therefore, he said, ''we think there's risk of more downside'' in the market, so the firm has recommended that clients cut their exposure to stocks.
In short, despite the buoyant returns so far this year, it may not be time for investors to whistle, ''Don't worry, be happy.''
While there has been some good news, the economy isn't really on firm ground. No less an authority than Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, shares that view. ''I don't think we're ready to declare that we've entered a new, stronger phase at this point,'' he said on Wednesday.
Fed policy makers last week underscored their fundamental pessimism about the outlook through late 2014. They said they expect to keep interest rates near zero until then -- one year longer than earlier indicated. And for the first time, the central bank issued detailed long-term predictions. The purpose of this exercise, Mr. Bernanke said, is to convince investors that interest rates will remain very low, thereby stimulating growth.
But the new information adds color to the central bank's grim assumptions, with Fed officials anticipating economic growth that will be too weak to make much of a dent in unemployment. The Fed evidently believes that a true recovery from the Great Recession and the global financial crisis is still years away.
The European sovereign debt crisis may have receded from its dominant position in the headlines, but it remains a global flash point, capable of exploding at a moment's notice. The European Central Bank, under Mario Draghi, its president since November, is providing ample liquidity to the region -- helping to keep financial markets lubricated and the yields of crucial Italian and Spanish bonds at manageable levels. The bank has been buying time.
Despite numerous summit meetings, conclaves and agreements, the underlying problems in Europe are unresolved. In an essay in the New York Review of Books, George Soros, the financier, compared Europe to a car in a dangerous skid. First, he says, to avoid a catastrophe, European leaders need to steer in the direction of the skid -- toward the draconian fiscal policies that are plunging the Continent into recession. Once a modicum of control has been regained, though, Europe needs to shift to a more sensible course, he says. He recommends economic stimulus, as do many economists. Mr. Soros is calling for bonds guaranteed by the European Union, but many other options have also been proposed.
At best, avoiding a greater calamity will entail an extraordinarily difficult series of maneuvers. Consider that there is no single driver at the wheel but rather dozens of politicians and administrators from 27 governments in the European Union, and numerous multilateral institutions, financial entities and closely linked non-European countries. Most have strong views about what needs to be done.
No wonder, even in this period of relative calm, that fear remains so close to the surface.
Researchers at HSBC in London and at Oxford University have been studying the phenomenon. They say world financial markets have been dominated by a ''risk-on, risk-off paradigm'' since the onset of the global financial crisis. I wrote about their research in April. Global financial assets were moving in lockstep. Since then, says Stacy Williams, an HSBC strategist in London, correlations have tightened much further. They reached ''absurdly high levels'' shortly before Christmas.
The new year has brought a relative lull, to be sure, and correlations have dropped somewhat. Even so, he said, the United States equity market is very highly correlated, both with other markets and internally. Late last year, he said, the correlation of individual stocks within the S.& P. 500 ''exploded to insane, never-seen-before levels, so that all stocks look and behave almost the same.'' For old-fashioned stock picking, this is a nightmare, at least over the short term, he said, since the nuances of any particular company are being overwhelmed by broader market forces.
The situation also makes it very hard to execute hedge fund strategies aimed at exploiting the differences between equity sectors -- bets that utilities, for example, will outperform industrials. Such strategies require a higher degree of sophistication than many such traders can manage, he said.
Over the last few weeks, ''risk on'' trades -- embracing stocks, which Mr. Williams called the ''quintessential risk-on asset'' -- have generally been in favor. At some point, if the ''risk-on, risk-off paradigm'' prevails, investors will move en masse to dump stocks, and bid up safe-haven assets, that for now include Treasury bonds and United States dollars.
What is an ordinary investor, one with no claims to financial sophistication, to do under these circumstances? The same thing he or she should do under most circumstances: maintain a well-balanced, diversified portfolio while trying not to worry too much about day-to-day market noise.
Of course, investors trying to save enough for retirement or for a house or for a child's education need to assess the amount of risk they can bear and the amount of time that they can wait for a return on their assets. Right now, Mr. Applegate advises investors to ''underweight'' equities and to add some riskless ballast like cash and short-term Treasuries.
Long-term investing in the stock market requires some confidence ''in the future economic health'' of capitalism, Mr. Williams said, which may seem a tall order on some days. Still, he has been making such a bet in his own retirement account, ''like just about everybody else,'' and hopes that the unusual market movements of the last several years will ultimately abate.
''If you are trying to be sophisticated, be sure that you are being really sophisticated,'' he says. Otherwise, consider taking some risk off the table.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EURO CRISIS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); INTEREST RATES (61%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1316 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Just Don't Call Her Che

BYLINE: By WILLIAM MOSS WILSON. 
A freelance journalist based in Chile.

 BODY:
Santiago, Chile
LATE last month the British newspaper The Guardian asked readers to vote for its person of the year. The candidates included household names like German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the Egyptian techno-revolutionary Wael Ghonim and the Burmese pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. All placed far behind a striking, nose-ringed student from Chile named Camila Vallejo.
Though far from a familiar face in the United States, the 23-year-old Ms. Vallejo has gained rock-star status among the global activist class. Since June she has led regular street marches of up to 200,000 people through Santiago's broad avenues -- the largest demonstrations since the waning days of the Pinochet regime in the late 1980s. Under her leadership, the mobilization, known as the Chilean Winter, has gained nationwide support; one of its slogans, ''We are the 90 percent,'' referred to its approval rating in late September. 
Ms. Vallejo's charismatic leadership has led commentators to make the obligatory comparisons to other Latin American leftist icons like Subcomandante Marcos and Che Guevara. Yet ''Commander Camila,'' as her followers call her, has become a personality in her own regard. She skewers senators in prime-time TV debates and stays on message with daytime talk-show hosts hungry for lurid details about her personal life, while her eloquence gives her a preternatural ability to connect with an audience far beyond her left-wing base.
In perhaps the most poignant set piece in the year of the protester, Ms. Vallejo addressed a dense ring of photographers and reporters in August while kneeling within a peace sign made of spent tear-gas shells, where she calmly mused about how many educational improvements could have been bought with the $100,000 worth of munitions at her feet.
Ms. Vallejo, like many of her fellow student leaders, is an avowed communist. But while she has publicly commended other regional leftists like Presidents Evo Morales of Bolivia and Rafael Correa of Ecuador, she and her generation have little in common with the older left of Fidel Castro or Hugo Chavez. They are less ideological purists than change-seeking pragmatists, even if that means working within the existing political order.
Still, there's no question that the movement is upending Chilean society. True, it is centered on a policy question, namely reforming an educational system that disproportionally favors the children of wealthy families. But the earth-shaking Paris protests in 1968 also began with calls for university reform -- before spiraling into street battles between radicalized students and truncheon-wielding gendarmes, opposing symbols in the culture war between old and new France.
The same process is under way in Chile. As the protests increasingly devolve into rock and tear-gas exchanges between students and the police, it's becoming clear that more than education policy is at stake: a nonviolent social revolution in which disaffected, politically savvy youth are trying to overthrow the mores of an older generation, one they feel is still tainted by the legacy of Pinochet. It is not just about policy reform, but also about changing the underlying timbers of Chilean society.
It's no surprise that the movement should be led by someone as charismatic as Ms. Vallejo. Paris 1968 had its celebrity protesters, handsome faces that brought hundreds of thousands into the streets, photogenic young men like Jacques Sauvageot and Daniel Cohn-Bendit. Chile has Ms. Vallejo.
Chile is perhaps Latin America's greatest success story. After decades of authoritarian rule, it has spent the last 20 years building a thriving economy with a renewed democratic culture and a booming, educated middle class. But it is also confronting a dangerous imbalance: While the liberalization of higher education has led to improvements in access, tuition has consistently outpaced inflation and now represents 40 percent of the average household's income.
At the same time, protesters say that wealthy students from private and expensive, co-pay charter schools have unfair access to elite universities, while the rest struggle to meet entrance standards at under-financed public institutions.
Criticism of the university system has been growing for years, but it was only in April that, energized by protests against a dam in Patagonia, students finally took to the streets. The protests grew over the winter; by the first press conference held by the national confederation of student unions, known as the Confech, Ms. Vallejo had emerged as its leader.
Echoing 1960s street activism, the Chilean Winter dabbled in the absurd, but with a high-tech, social-media twist. Thousands gathered in front of the presidential palace in June dressed as zombies, then broke into a choreographed dance to Michael Jackson's ''Thriller.'' In July, students again gathered in front of the palace for a huge ''kiss-in.''
Though the ideas came, said Giorgio Jackson, former student president of Chile's Catholic University, from ''everywhere, absolutely every local space,'' the movement's success hinged on the leadership's ability to channel such creativity while maintaining a unified front to government and the media. The organization used a Web site to gather ideas and disseminate content for placards and posters. And it has used Ms. Vallejo's 300,000-plus Twitter followers to quickly initiate huge ''cacerolazos,'' a form of dictatorship-era protest where people walk the streets banging on pots and pans.
While they vow to continue until all their lofty demands are met, the students have already scored some political victories. The government's proposed 2012 budget has a $350 million increase for higher education, with promises to finance scholarships for qualifying students from families up to the 60th percentile in household income. Meanwhile, the year began with the naming of Chile's third education minister in six months.
It was only a matter of time, perhaps, before the movement's focus on education began to broaden. As more support for the movement came from outside the universities, its interests changed accordingly. ''This year we have already started talking about political reforms and tax reforms, and we think the students and youth in general play an important role in profound reforms in the country,'' said Noam Titelman, the new student president at Catholic University.
Tax reform is, not coincidentally, now at the top of the government's agenda. And rightly so: though it has one of the wealthiest economies in Latin America, Chile is the 13th most unequal country in the world.
''Something very powerful that has come out of the heart of this movement is that people are really questioning the economic policies of the country,'' Ms. Vallejo said. ''People are not tolerating the way a small number of economic groups benefit from the system. Having a market economy is really different from having a market society. What we are asking for, via education reform, is that the state take on a different role.''
The movement has also begun to spread regionally. Ms. Vallejo lent her star power to Brazilian student protests in August, while in November students demonstrated in France, Germany and several other countries in support of Confech's Latin American March for Education.
''The student movement here is permanently connected to other student movements, principally in Latin America, but also in the world,'' Ms. Vallejo said. ''We believe this reveals something fundamental: that there is a global demand for the recovery and defense of the right to education.''
But the students clearly have a lot to learn about real-world politics. Ms. Vallejo and other student leaders spent weeks lobbying in Parliament, only to be left out of the final budget negotiations.
Frustration with Ms. Vallejo's strategy propelled a rival leftist, Gabriel Boric, to challenge her in the latest round of student-government elections. On Dec. 7, national TV news crews lingered past 5 a.m. outside the University of Chile to cover a stunning defeat for the world's most famous student leader.
Yet even in her early-morning concession speech, Ms. Vallejo claimed victory, recognizing that the movement was greater than any one figure. Indeed, her rise has barely broken stride. She just left for a speaking tour in Europe, while her first book, a collection of her speeches and essays from the last year, is rising through the best-seller ranks. And she is being heavily courted by the Communist Party to run at the top of its list for the Chilean Congress in the 2013 elections.
For all its recent stumbles, the movement's prospects of getting a woman under 26 elected to Congress would help fulfill one of its underlying aims, to kindle young people's interest in traditional politics. This may be Ms. Vallejo's greatest contribution: to restore faith in a discredited system by showing a new generation that politics can be responsive to the people's demands.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article attributed an erroneous distinction to the Chilean economy. Though it is one of the wealthiest in Latin America, it is not nearly the largest; Brazil's is.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Camila Vallejo, vice president of the Student Federation of the University of Chile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR RUIZ CABALLERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (86%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POP & ROCK (70%); RIOTS (68%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (65%); GENDARMERIE (60%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (51%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (72%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (57%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%) CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%); ECUADOR (79%); FRANCE (76%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



1317 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
CHINA FLEXES IN CHENGDU
TO PREVENT SPREAD OF UNREST
Chengdu is nearly 200 miles from the wave of protest by ethnic Tibetans that is sweeping western Sichuan Province, but one would never know it from a stroll through Chengdu's Tibetan quarter. Faced with the largest outbreak of Tibetan unrest since riots in Lhasa in 2008, the government is taking no chances that the unrest will spread. Armed soldiers and bands of police officers man the sidewalks and police cars are stationed on the streets. PAGE 5
FROSTY RALLY FOR PUTIN
Teams of mechanics and welders gathered in Yekaterinburg in sub-zero temperatures for a Soviet-style rally in support of Vladimir V. Putin in the first major effort by Mr. Putin's supporters to counter a tech-savvy opposition movement. But even at an event intended specifically to bolster Mr. Putin, there was a notable lack of enthusiasm, underscoring the distinct challenges he faces as he seeks to return to the presidency for a third term. PAGE 7 
ARRESTS IN HACKING SCANDAL
A Scotland Yard team investigating the bribery of police officers by journalists searched the offices of Rupert Murdoch's flagship British tabloid, The Sun, after arresting a police officer and four men identified as current or former journalists at the paper. The arrests appeared to mark an intensification of the police investigation into the role of The Sun in illegal news-gathering techniques. PAGE 7
SCHOOLS BLOOM IN CAMBODIA
Every year, millions of tourists visit the vast ruins of Angkor Wat, and the influx has helped transform Siem Reap from what once was a small, laid-back village to a thriving and cosmopolitan town. The explosion of the tourism industry also made Siem Reap the second-largest hub for higher education in Cambodia, fueling the educational aspirations of many workers there. PAGE 8
National
WITH NEW GAME IN TOWN,
TUCSON HOPES TO SCORE
Tucson suffered an economic blow when Major League Baseball teams stopped using the city for spring training. It was also hurt by the loss of a college bowl game, a golf tournament and a Triple-A baseball team before replacements were found. But the city is bracing for an economic lift when six Major League Soccer teams arrive in the coming weeks to train there for the first time. PAGE 10
CAMPAIGNING VIA TWITTER
Twitter has emerged as a critical tool in the Republican primary, allowing political campaigns to reach voters, gather data and respond to charges immediately. But like most new media tools, it also carries danger for the campaigns. It can quickly define the political debate, whether candidates like it or not, and a single 140-character missive can turn into a nightmare. PAGE 15
WASHINGTON'S SLOW ANSWERS
The intent of the Freedom of Information Act was to provide citizens, scholars and journalists a window into the workings of their government, but the process of obtaining information is seldom prompt. For example, the National Archives and Records Administration says its oldest request, from September 1992, is a request for documents from 1961. These requests have been neither denied nor approved; they are in limbo. PAGE 17
New York
SOARING TUITION COSTS
AT CITY'S PRIVATE SCHOOLS
The already expensive tuition at New York City's private schools is only going up. Over the past 10 years, the median price of first grade in the city has increased by 48 percent. Parents at Horace Mann, Columbia Grammar and Trinity are bracing to find out whether they will join families in the $40,000-a-year club. PAGE 22
Sports
DREAM MAY BE OVER
FOR INDIANAPOLIS COLTS
The Indianapolis Colts are hosting next Sunday's Super Bowl as the club and the owner, Jim Irsay, contemplate tectonic shifts in the fortunes of the franchise. The people Irsay had relied on for years -- the team president, Bill Polian, and coach, Jim Caldwell -- were sent packing, and the injured quarterback, Peyton Manning, is upset with the team. PAGE 1
MAKING GIANTS HISTORY
Coaches and quarterbacks often have their fate -- and histories -- tied together, and the New York Giants' Eli Manning and Tom Coughlin are no different. Coughlin and Manning joined the Giants in 2004 and, in the eight years since, they have produced a 74-54 regular season record, two N.F.C. championships and one Super Bowl title, with another awaiting them next Sunday if they can beat the New England Patriots. PAGE 3
Arts & Leisure
HBO MAKES A BIG BET
ON TWO THOROUGHBREDS
''Luck,'' HBO's new series about the world of horse racing, brings together the talents of writer David Filch and director Michael Mann. HBO executives conceived of the show as a marriage of wordsmith and auteur, but the two television veterans had to struggle to find common ground to make it. The result of their working detente is a show that shares more narrative lineage with ''The Godfather'' than ''Seabiscuit,'' writes David Carr. PAGE 1
Obituaries
DICK TUFELD, 85
He possessed one of Hollywood's most often-heard disembodied voices and was best known for his electronic intonations as the robot in the loopy science-fiction series ''Lost in Space.'' PAGE 20
Sunday Business
A HARD LOOK AT TASK FORCE
TO INVESTIGATE MORTGAGES
Many leaders of a task force meant to investigate the abuses that led to our economic woes have not done that well in their own agencies, Gretchen Morgenson writes. Fair Game. PAGE 1
LONELINESS IN THE WORKPLACE
It's lonely at the top, or so it is said. But in fact it doesn't matter where a person is in the office hierarchy -- employees at all levels become lonely, even when other workers are all around them. Workstation. Page 8
TWO SIDES OF INNOVATION
Apple and Google take very different paths to the creative process, but the gap between those approaches may be closing a bit.Unboxed. PAGE 3
IT'S NOT TIME TO RELAX YET
Despite buoyant returns so far this year, it's hardly time for investors to celebrate a walk on easy street, Jeff Sommer writes. Strategies. Page 6
Automobiles
THE SHIFTING SANDS
OF CLASSIC CARS
The collector car community left its annual week of auction extravaganzas in Scottsdale, Ariz., thinking about the last few uncertain years and how the worldwide economic turmoil affected the value and variety in sales. Sports, Page 11
Style
THE POLITICS OF ENDING
A FRIENDSHIP
Thanks to Facebook, the concept of ''defriending'' has become part of the online culture. With a click of a mouse, you can remove someone from your friends roster, not so in the real world. PAGE 1
Magazine
ISRAEL'S CONDITIONS
FOR AN ASSAULT ON IRAN
For the first time since the Iranian nuclear threat emerged, several conditions for an assault by Israel have been met according to Israeli leaders. PAGE 22
Female Olympic Hopefuls 30
Book Review
'THE TROPIC OF CANCER,'
A CLASSIC TURNS 50
It has been 50 years since Henry Miller first published ''The Tropic of Cancer,'' in the United States. In his book ''Renegade,'' Frederick Turner aims to explain the journey of how Miller's novel came to be written, banned and eventually seen as an American classic. PAGE 1
Editorial
FILIBUSTERING OF NOMINEESNEEDS TO END
The system for reviewing presidential appointments is broken. Changing the filibuster rule is a risky course, but it is the only way to get the nation's work done. Sunday Review, Page 10
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Ethiopia brutally imprisons journalists who champion free speech and an end to human rights abuses. Sunday Review, Page 11
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
C.E.O.'s rarely talk about ''outsourcing'' these days. Their world is now so integrated that there is no ''out.'' Sunday Review, Page 11
ROSS DOUTHAT
The more things we do together through government, in many cases, the fewer things we do together in other spheres. Sunday Review, Page 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RIOTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); BRIBERY (71%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); SOCCER (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (68%); TOURISM (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); TOURNAMENTS (62%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (61%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (60%); POLITICAL DEBATES (60%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (60%); GOLF (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SICHUAN, CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) TIBET (96%); CHINA (94%); CAMBODIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1318 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Beltway Lobbyists Drop Egypt's Government as Client

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Lobbyists for the Egyptian government in Washington have ended their contracts with the country because of growing tensions after a raid by Egyptian authorities on several American nonprofit organizations. 
The Egyptian government has refused to let employees of the organizations leave the country. The detained workers include Sam LaHood, son of Ray LaHood, who is the Obama administration's secretary of transportation.
The lobbying firms include the Livingston Group, run by former Representative Robert L. Livingston, Republican of Louisiana; the Moffett Group, run by former Representative Toby Moffett, Democrat of Connecticut; and the Podesta Group, owned by Tony Podesta, one of the most powerful lobbyists in Washington. Mr. Podesta has close ties to the Obama administration.
The firms were widely criticized for distributing talking points defending the Egyptian government's raid. They shared a lobbying contract worth more $1.1 million a year to represent Egypt's interests in Washington, according to documents filed with the Department of Justice.
Mr. Livingston confirmed in an e-mail to Politico that the three firms had dropped Egypt as a client; Politico reported the ending of the contracts late Friday.
The firms had formed a joint effort called the PLM Group to advocate on behalf of the government of President Hosni Mubarak. He stepped down early last year after more than two weeks of street protests led by youth activists. According to the filings with the Justice Department, Egypt has paid PLM more than $4 million since 2007.
The severing of the contracts by the three firms comes weeks after the Egyptian government raided the offices of three American nonprofit groups that work with local organizations on election monitoring and government transparency. The groups are the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute and Freedom House.
The Republican and Democratic institutes are loosely affiliated with the Republican and Democratic Parties. They were created by Congress and are financed through the National Endowment for Democracy, which was set up in 1983 to channel grants for promoting democracy in developing nations. Freedom House is a Washington-based group that promotes democracy and open elections.
The National Endowment receives about $100 million annually from Congress. Freedom House also gets the bulk of its money from the American government, mainly from the State Department, according to tax records and budget documents.
Officials in Egypt have long been critical of those groups, which have operated in the country without being officially registered. The work of the groups often provoked tensions between the United States and Egypt, whose leaders frequently complained that they were being undermined, according to American diplomatic cables obtained and distributed by WikiLeaks.
Last year, The New York Times reported that several groups and individuals directly involved in the revolts and reforms sweeping the region, including the April 6 Youth Movement in Egypt, took part in training from the three groups, according to interviews and the diplomatic cables.
Egypt, whose government gets $1.5 billion annually in military and economic aid from the United States, viewed efforts to promote political change with deep suspicion and even outrage.
Mr. Mubarak was ''deeply skeptical of the U.S. role in democracy promotion,'' said a diplomatic cable from the United States Embassy in Cairo dated Oct. 9, 2007.
According to a September 2006 cable, Mahmoud Nayel, an official with the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, complained to American Embassy officials about the United States government's ''arrogant tactics in promoting reform in Egypt.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (73%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); ELECTION MONITORING (63%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (71%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1319 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Made in the World

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
THE Associated Press reported last week that Fidel Castro, the former president of Cuba, wrote an opinion piece on a Cuban Web site, following a Republican Party presidential candidates' debate in Florida, in which he argued that the ''selection of a Republican candidate for the presidency of this globalized and expansive empire is -- and I mean this seriously -- the greatest competition of idiocy and ignorance that has ever been.''
When Marxists are complaining that your party's candidates are disconnected from today's global realities, it's generally not a good sign. But they're not alone. 
There is today an enormous gap between the way many C.E.O.'s in America -- not Wall Street-types, but the people who lead premier companies that make things and create real jobs -- look at the world and how the average congressmen, senator or president looks at the world. They are literally looking at two different worlds -- and this applies to both parties.
Consider the meeting that this paper reported on from last February between President Obama and the Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, who died in October. The president, understandably, asked Jobs why almost all of the 70 million iPhones, 30 million iPads and 59 million other products Apple sold last year were made overseas. Obama inquired, couldn't that work come back home? ''Those jobs aren't coming back,'' Jobs replied.
Politicians see the world as blocs of voters living in specific geographies -- and they see their job as maximizing the economic benefits for the voters in their geography. Many C.E.O.'s, though, increasingly see the world as a place where their products can be made anywhere through global supply chains (often assembled with nonunion-protected labor) and sold everywhere.
These C.E.O.'s rarely talk about ''outsourcing'' these days. Their world is now so integrated that there is no ''out'' and no ''in'' anymore. In their businesses, every product and many services now are imagined, designed, marketed and built through global supply chains that seek to access the best quality talent at the lowest cost, wherever it exists. They see more and more of their products today as ''Made in the World'' not ''Made in America.'' Therein lies the tension. So many of ''our'' companies actually see themselves now as citizens of the world. But Obama is president of the United States.
Victor Fung, the chairman of Li & Fung, one of Hong Kong's oldest textile manufacturers, remarked to me last year that for many years his company operated on the rule: ''You sourced in Asia, and you sold in America and Europe.'' Now, said Fung, the rule is: '' 'Source everywhere, manufacture everywhere, sell everywhere.' The whole notion of an 'export' is really disappearing.''
Mike Splinter, the C.E.O. of Applied Materials, has put it to me this way: ''Outsourcing was 10 years ago, where you'd say, 'Let's send some software generation overseas.' This is not the outsourcing we're doing today. This is just where I am going to get something done. Now you say, 'Hey, half my Ph.D.'s in my R-and-D department would rather live in Singapore, Taiwan or China because their hometown is there and they can go there and still work for my company.' This is the next evolution.'' He has many more choices.
Added Michael Dell, founder of Dell Inc.: ''I always remind people that 96 percent of our potential new customers today live outside of America.'' That's the rest of the world. And if companies like Dell want to sell to them, he added, it needs to design and manufacture some parts of its products in their countries.
This is the world we are living in. It is not going away. But America can thrive in this world, explained Yossi Sheffi, the M.I.T. logistics expert, if it empowers ''as many of our workers as possible to participate'' in different links of these global supply chains -- either imagining products, designing products, marketing products, orchestrating the supply chain for products, manufacturing high-end products and retailing products. If we get our share, we'll do fine.
And here's the good news: We have a huge natural advantage to compete in this kind of world, if we just get our act together.
In a world where the biggest returns go to those who imagine and design a product, there is no higher imagination-enabling society than America. In a world where talent is the most important competitive advantage, there is no country that historically welcomed talented immigrants more than America. In a world in which protection for intellectual property and secure capital markets is highly prized by innovators and investors alike, there is no country safer than America. In a world in which the returns on innovation are staggering, our government funding of bioscience, new technology and clean energy is a great advantage. In a world where logistics will be the source of a huge number of middle-class jobs, we have FedEx and U.P.S.
If only -- if only -- we could come together on a national strategy to enhance and expand all of our natural advantages: more immigration, most post-secondary education, better infrastructure, more government research, smart incentives for spurring millions of start-ups -- and a long-term plan to really fix our long-term debt problems -- nobody could touch us. We're that close.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); SMARTPHONES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); TEXTILE MFG (50%)

COMPANY: LI & FUNG LTD (50%)

TICKER: 0494 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424310 PIECE GOODS, NOTIONS & OTHER DRY GOODS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); SIC5131 PIECE GOODS, NOTIONS, & OTHER DRY GOODS (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (87%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); FIDEL CASTRO (73%); VICTOR FUNG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1320 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: In Davos, Europe Is Pressed for Debt Crisis Solution

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland -- World leaders turned up the pressure on Europe on Saturday to erect a more formidable wall of money against the sovereign debt crisis, warning that the euro zone continues to pose a severe threat to the global economy.
George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, said a bigger firewall was ''a key to unlocking further confidence,'' while Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said the fund should be big enough to eliminate any doubts about European resolve. 
''If it is big enough, it will not get used,'' she said on Saturday during a panel discussion at the World Economic Forum here.
Echoing comments by United States officials, including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Friday, leaders in Davos said that aid to the euro zone from the rest of the world would be contingent on a larger commitment by Europe. Some critics have said it is perverse that the I.M.F., which is financed partly by developing countries, should be aiding wealthy Europe.
''Europe has to be making more effort; otherwise, I don't think developing countries will want to pay more for the I.M.F.,'' said Motohisa Furukawa, the Japanese official responsible for economic and fiscal policy.
The firewall, known formally as the European Stability Mechanism, would have a lending capacity of 500 billion euros ($656 billion) when it begins operating in July, replacing a temporary fund. European leaders are debating ways to increase the bailout fund's resources to aid overindebted countries, but they face powerful opposition from voters in countries like Germany and have so far failed to act boldly enough to reassure financial markets.
In the short term, though, leaders have gained some breathing room because of emergency cash that the European Central Bank has provided to banks, a measure that has calmed markets. Euro zone leaders are more focused on dealing with what they see as the more immediate danger of a Greek default, and less on testing their taxpayers' patience by increasing the size of the firewall.
Top officials and economists from outside Europe warned of complacency, and on Saturday in Davos they presented a much more pessimistic view of the European crisis than has been heard in previous days. While many European leaders and businesspeople have argued that the risk of a catastrophic breakup of the euro zone has declined, leaders of other regions said the crisis still had the potential to sow global misery.
''I've never been as scared as now about the world,'' said Donald Tsang, chief executive of Hong Kong. He said the effect on the world financial system is unpredictable. ''We do not know how deep this hole would be when the whole thing implodes on us,'' he said.
Ms. Lagarde said: ''No one is immune. It's not just a euro zone crisis. It's a crisis that could have collateral effects, spillover effects around the world.''
The undercurrent of their remarks was that European policy still lacks credibility in the eyes of the world.
''This has got to have an effect on influence, on perceptions of power in the world that are going to be significant for years to come,'' said Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank Group.
Nouriel Roubini, a professor of economics at New York University known for his pessimistic views, forecast Saturday that Greece would have to leave the euro zone this year, and said that there was at least a 50 percent chance that the euro zone would break up within three to five years.
''The euro zone is a slow-motion train wreck,'' Mr. Roubini said during a separate panel discussion.
Speakers on Saturday did not say how big they thought the European firewall should be. But, again echoing American officials, they agreed it should be so enormous that no investor would question its integrity. That has not been true of Europe's financial commitment so far, which has consistently failed to restore market faith in the euro.
Without mentioning Germany by name, Ms. Lagarde said that European countries that are able to should do more to increase domestic consumer spending and slow down efforts to cut government outlays.
''Some countries have to go full speed ahead and do that fiscal consolidation that is so much needed,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''But other countries have space and can do something. They should certainly explore what they can do to boost growth in order to help themselves but also to help the rest of the zone.''
The European Central Bank continued to draw praise for providing emergency cash to banks and avoiding a credit squeeze.
''There is not going to be a Lehman-style moment in Europe,'' said Mark J. Carney, governor of the Canadian central bank, referring to the collapse of investment bank Lehman Brothers in 2008, which helped set in motion the financial crisis. But he added, ''That is different than having a well, fully functioning banking system.''
The officials also drove home the message that Europe cannot expect more help from the outside world, by way of the I.M.F., unless it does more to help itself.
As the Greek government made slow progress on Saturday to reach a deal with creditors to reduce its overall debt, Mr. Osborne expressed amazement that such a tiny country continued to pose a threat to global stability.
''The danger is that the tail wags the dog throughout this crisis,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: ''No one is immune. It's not just a euro zone crisis,'' Christine Lagarde said on Saturday in Davos. SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (75%); GEORGE OSBORNE (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (91%) EUROPE (97%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1321 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: It Has a Fancy Name, but Will It Get Tough?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA told the nation last week that he was convening a task force to investigate the abusive practices in the mortgage industry that led to our economic woes. Both lending and the practice of bundling loans into securities will come under scrutiny, he said, adding: ''This new unit will hold accountable those who broke the law, speed assistance to homeowners and help turn the page on an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans.''
Some greeted this new task force -- its unwieldy name is the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group -- with skepticism. It is an election year, after all, and many might wonder if this is just a public-relations response to the outrage against the institutions and executives that almost wrecked the economy. 
If this task force nailed some big names, and soon, it would help to allay deep suspicions that the authorities have given powerful people and institutions a pass during this awful episode.
Among those heading the working group are officials from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department -- the same institutions already charged with rooting out and punishing wrongdoing. Their record in these pursuits has been disappointing so far. This is especially so, considering the evidence of wrongdoing unearthed in private lawsuits against mortgage originators and securities firms in recent years.
According to the S.E.C.'s Web site, the commission has filed 25 such cases since 2009. A total of 46 top executives have been sued and 25 individuals have been penalized, either by being barred from their industry or from acting as a corporate director or officer, or by no longer being permitted to appear before the S.E.C. as a lawyer or an accountant.
Such bars typically last five years, but some are permanent. The S.E.C.'s settlement with Angelo Mozilo, 73, former head of Countrywide Financial, barred him from acting as a director or officer of a public company for the rest of his life.
Some cases on the list are still being litigated. Those that have been settled have generated $1.97 billion in penalties, disgorgement and other monetary relief, according to the S.E.C. Harmed investors have received $355 million of that.
Drilling into the details, though, indicates that little of this money was paid by individuals. The payments came from companies, or more precisely, their shareholders.
Talk about making the wrong people pay.
Only one of the cases seems to involve a clawback of executive compensation. It's the 2009 case against three former top executives of New Century Financial, a quintessential Wild West lender. Together, the three paid $1.5 million when settling charges of making false and misleading statements about the company's soundness as it imploded.
If this is justice, it's certainly not rough. Brad Morrice, the company's former chief executive, returned just $542,000 to regulators; he took home at least $2.9 million in incentive pay in the two years before New Century collapsed.
It seems obvious that until executives are forced to dig deep into their own pockets to pay penalties in these matters, they will be tempted to take as many risks as possible to generate fat paychecks. Then they will move on to the next opportunity.
The S.E.C. is clearly proud of its financial crisis cases. But comparing its tally with the mountainous evidence produced in private lawsuits shows how much more work there is to be done.
Consider the most recent complaint filed by the Assured Guaranty Corporation, an insurer of mortgage securities, against Bear Stearns, the defunct brokerage firm; EMC, Bear's mortgage origination and servicing unit; and JPMorgan Chase, which bought Bear in March 2008.
Filed in November, the complaint shows what kinds of revealing material can be dug up by determined investigators.
The complaint contends that Bear Stearns knew it was stuffing its mortgage-backed securities with crummy loans. It cites an e-mail written by a former EMC analyst in the unit that dealt with these instruments. ''I have been toying with the idea of writing a book about our experiences,'' the analyst wrote. ''Think of all of the crap that went on and how nobody outside of the company would believe us ... the fact that data was constantly changing and we sold loans without the data being correct -- wouldn't investors who bought the MBS's want to know that?''
Indeed they would.
Discovery in the case also identifies top executives who oversaw the mortgage machine that felled Bear Stearns. Thomas F. Marano, senior managing director and designated principal of the mortgage- and asset-backed securities department, was ''well aware of the amount of risk that was being taken on in terms of acquiring assets and ... the activities with respect to securitization,'' the complaint said, citing a Bear Stearns executive's deposition.
The complaint also contends that John Mongelluzzo, the Bear Stearns vice president for due diligence, misled investigators for the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission when he described the extensive vetting the company did when it bundled mortgages.
Mr. Mongelluzzo told the commission that Bear Steams tested ''all of the due diligence firms and their contract underwriters, and if they couldn't pass the underwriting test, they weren't permitted to work on our transactions,'' the complaint said. He also told the investigators that the company ''instituted a process where we went out and audited the individual diligence firms to see what their processes were and what they were doing internally as well.''
But in a subsequent deposition, Mr. Mongelluzzo conceded that Bear had not started to test its underwriters until February 2007, well after the mortgage market had begun crumbling, and that it didn't begin its audit program of due diligence vendors until April 2007.
Mr. Marano is now chairman and chief executive of Residential Capital, the mortgage unit of Ally Financial. Mr. Mongelluzzo is an executive there as well. Both declined to comment.
It is to be expected that investigators for private law firms will turn up loads of ammunition to help them in their court battles. But in the past, law enforcement was similarly aggressive in its own pursuits.
Now, the balance seems to have shifted, with private litigants doing more legal heavy lifting than those who serve the public.
Perhaps the new working group will right this imbalance. But its members don't have a lot of time, with the election coming. Private litigants have drawn a pretty clear road map for the places that this new group might go. Its leaders should welcome the assistance, given that the clock is ticking.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In his State of the Union address last week, President Obama announced that he was convening a task force to look into practices of the mortgage industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (87%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LAWYERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ANGELO R MOZILO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1322 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: A Governor Still Trying To Become A Politician

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ; Christine Sexton contributed reporting from Tallahassee, Fla.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- As the Republican presidential candidates darted from city to city in Florida last week stitching up votes for Tuesday's primary, Gov. Rick Scott stayed largely ensconced in the State Capitol, far from the fray, filling his days with business meetings, receptions and talk of his legislative agenda.
Unlike Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who spent three days campaigning for Mitt Romney in her state before its recent primary, Mr. Scott has not endorsed a candidate and has scarcely acknowledged the feverish pitch that is now enveloping the race.
He is doing this for practical reasons, political analysts say: Mr. Scott, 59, remains an enigmatic, polarizing figure in Florida, and his approval ratings float around the 30 percent mark, hardly a boon on the stump for any of the four candidates. 
But for Mr. Scott, a bedrock conservative and workaholic who approaches the job of governor as the corporate chief he once was, it is also a reflection of his aversion to the fine points and foolishness of politics, something he has set out to overcome in his second year in office.
Despite his legislative successes last year, a transformation was in order, analysts, lawmakers and lobbyists say. In an effort to better connect with voters and change his public image, the governor shook up his inner circle last summer, bringing in a respected political veteran as chief of staff. Shortly after, Mr. Scott, who had routinely shunned reporters, made a point of talking with them more informally and sitting down with newspaper editorial boards for the first time.
The multimillionaire governor was also seen traipsing around the state on ''let's get to work days,'' selling doughnuts at a shop, among other things. Batting back charges that he was not tuning in to voters, he went on a listening tour. An open-collar shirt replaced a suit and tie. And lawmakers received invitations to the Governor's Mansion for dinners and barbecues.
''Governors can't get isolated in Tallahassee,'' said John Thrasher, a former chairman of the Republican Party in Florida and now a state senator from Jacksonville. ''They have to get out and meet people and understand what's on their minds, and I think he is doing that.''
It is a far cry from Mr. Scott's first six months in office, when ''he was almost in a kind of lockdown situation,'' said Van B. Poole, another former chairman of the Republican Party in Florida who is now a lobbyist. ''They had him so insulated in the beginning you couldn't get to him.''
An outsider when he was elected with Tea Party support after a knock-down, razor-close race in 2010, Mr. Scott, a former health care executive with the air of a technocrat, has managed to stay an outsider.
''He is not a politician,'' said Tony Fabrizio, a longtime pollster and strategist who helped get Mr. Scott elected and who continues to advise him. ''These people who are critics of him, they are critics because they are expecting him to behave like a trained politician. He is on a learning curve on how politics itself works.''
''Could things have been done different or better? Sure,'' Mr. Fabrizio said. ''But they got a ton of stuff done.''
The relationship between Mr. Scott and Republican leaders in the Legislature got off to a frosty start, mostly because they had all worked hard to defeat him in the 2010 primary and he did not kowtow upon his arrival. Yet he walked away from the last legislative session with much of what he wanted -- in large part because the Legislature is overwhelmingly Republican and conservative and shares much of his agenda.
The budget shortfall shrank to $2 billion this year from $3.5 billion last year, mostly from cutting a big chunk of the education budget. Teacher tenure was ended and merit pay instituted, something the Legislature had pushed for and teachers had fought. State workers were required to contribute 3 percent of their salaries for their pensions, a move that riled unions. The state work force was trimmed by 3.5 percent.
The governor also rejected $2.4 billion in federal stimulus money for a high-speed rail line between Orlando and Tampa, arguing that the project could have ended up saddling Florida taxpayers with $3 billion in cost overruns for its construction.
Looking for more savings, Mr. Scott pushed to privatize prisons and Medicaid and to institute drug testing for people seeking public assistance. At the same time, he provoked the ire of environmentalists by reducing financing for the state's water management districts, directly affecting the environmentally fragile Everglades. Many of the most contentious measures, including drug testing and prison privatization, have landed the state in court.
But the governor had a few failures, too. He could not persuade the Legislature to pass the sweeping corporate income tax cuts he wanted, and his efforts to require employers to verify the immigration status of workers were short-circuited by the agricultural and business communities.
Democrats say the governor, in his zeal to cut the deficit, has badly undercut the needs of the poor, the underemployed and children.
''Unfortunately, I don't think he understood a lot in terms of the average person's life in Florida,'' said State Representative Mark S. Pafford, a West Palm Beach Democrat who is in the House leadership. ''Republicans will find it difficult to defend some of the stances he has taken and some of the legislation he has gone along with.''
The governor's mantra, though, remains job creation. It is a pursuit that fills most of his working day, former aides say. Amid a bleak economic landscape, Mr. Scott promised to create 700,000 jobs in seven years. And he has started to deliver. In the past year, more than 100,000 private-sector jobs have been created, and the state ranks third in job growth behind California and Texas, according to the latest Labor Department data. In December, unemployment in Florida finally squeaked below 10 percent.
The problem, though, is that many of the jobs are either low paying or not the sort that come with benefits. No major companies have moved to Florida in a long time, despite the state's friendly tax climate and balmy weather.
Still, Mr. Scott possesses an unshakeable belief in the free market. It is what defines him. At a lunch on Thursday about economic development, he expressed disbelief over the attacks Mr. Romney has faced for being a successful private equity manager with Bain Capital.
''We shouldn't be allowing candidates to attack people in business,'' he said. ''We should be saying, 'Gosh, that's us.' ''
''If we don't defend the free market,'' he added, ''they'll pick on somebody. Now they're picking on Bain Capital, then they'll pick on somebody else.''
This year, the governor is trying to avoid another intense battle with the Legislature. His budget proposal is more modest, a reflection of the political stakes in an election year and the Legislature's preoccupation with Congressional redistricting.
''He decided to bite the bullet to try to get as much done as possible in the first session,'' Mr. Fabrizio said, ''knowing that in the second session he does not have to be as hard-edged.''
The governor has done a U-turn on education, proposing an increase of $1 billion and offsetting much of what was cut last year. Still, school financing is significantly down compared with five years ago. And much of the increase would come from cuts in Medicaid, which has infuriated Democrats.
Many say Mr. Scott now recognizes that large companies will not move here unless the state has a solid education system.
As for his low approval ratings and the possibility that he could be a drain on Republican prospects in November, Republicans say there is plenty of time for a turnaround. Mr. Scott entered the job with low approval ratings, a consequence of the nasty 2010 election; they did not drop suddenly, Mr. Fabrizio said.
''In 2012, the race is going to be about Barack Obama and whoever the nominee is -- those two people,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, clockwise from above left, reacting to protesters before his State of the State address this month
speaking to a builders' group on Friday
talking with a young visitor at National Guard Day on Tuesday
dancing with passengers at one of his ''let's get to work'' days as a D.J. on a cruise ship in November
and shouldering a weapon at National Guard Day (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALAN DIAZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIKE EWEN/TALLAHASSEE DEMOCRAT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12)
 Gov. Rick Scott delivering his State of the State address this month. His legislative agenda is more modest than last year's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NIKKI HALEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (74%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1323 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING ON 57TH STREET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: No Commuting Required

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IT may be true that real New Yorkers know the easiest way to eat a slice of pizza while walking is to fold it. And it is probably true that real New Yorkers know the first syllable of ''Houston Street'' rhymes with ''cow.'' But if you think real New Yorkers avoid areas where tourists throng, you need to visit 57th Street.
Clearly there is a category of New Yorker for whom mobbed, bustling blocks of cityscape constitute the only natural habitat -- certainly not quiet, leafy streets in Park Slope or moody, industrial corners of Long Island City.
Spanning Manhattan from the Hudson to the East River, 57th courses through the heart of the main retail district. Its nearly 15-block length offers everything from elegant shops to mesmerizing musical acts, punctuated by a rich variety of residential buildings. Then there's Central Park, which begins just two blocks to the north. 
So what if the locals sometimes have to deal with photo-snapping crowds outside Tiffany? ''You're talking to somebody who likes being in the middle of everything,'' said Corinne Zinn, an interior designer who lives in a studio in a white-brick co-op at Second Avenue.
The apartment cost $30,000 in 1977, when Ms. Zinn, then living in Binghamton, N.Y., bought it as a pied-a-terre -- in part, she recalled, to be close to many of the then-plentiful design shops. In 2007, when her husband, Herbert, died, Ms. Zinn moved there full-time.
Today the studio, which overlooks the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge, might command $400,000, she added, basing her estimate on other sales in the building, home to an indoor-outdoor pool.
Nearby cultural attractions include Carnegie Hall, at Seventh Avenue, where Ms. Zinn recently saw the violinist Joshua Bell perform. And she didn't get there through ''practice, practice, practice'' but on the M57 bus, which stops outside her front door. ''It's a wonderful neighborhood for seniors,'' said Ms. Zinn, who is 81, ''because of all the transportation options.''
And also, probably, because of all the remaining vestiges of a past as an arts district on par with today's West Chelsea. Galleries are found in buildings like No. 24, which recently had a painting of roses in a vase on display in a window -- though the building does share space with Physique 57, an exercise space that opened in 2006.
Things have changed less at the Art Students League of New York, at No. 215, a training ground for painters and other artists since 1892. Inside recently, on a wall near beat-up metal lockers, were ads for classes in still-life drawing, comic-book creation and ''recycled paper casting.'' Elsewhere up and down the street, the shopping can get pretty high-toned, with Bergdorf-Goodman and Louis Vuitton, as well as boutiques by Dior, Ferragamo and others.
It's true that people in Ms. Zinn's age group have gravitated here -- census data suggest they make up about 20 percent of the population along 57th Street, versus 12 percent in Manhattan as a whole. Anecdotal evidence, however, suggests that the population seems also to be growing younger.
For instance, Michael Ramah, who lives in a prewar co-op near First Avenue, says there were no families when he moved in a decade ago. In fact, he bought his two-bedroom for $575,000 as part of an estate sale.
But in the last year the 21-unit building has welcomed seven babies. ''The average age just went way down,'' Mr. Ramah, 58, said jokingly. But the area's older residents are an inspiration, he said, because they're a reminder that ''you can stay in New York and age gracefully.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Architecturally interesting apartment buildings vie for notice alongside stores and performance spaces on 57th, which seems to shift in personality depending what part you're on.
The four and a half blocks east of Lexington are mostly residential, with workaday stores and white-tablecloth restaurants. Lining this stretch, especially near Sutton Place South, are understated 1920s-era 15-story doorman buildings, interspersed with a few brasher, taller ones.
There's No. 150, a chocolate-colored 1990s rental, with 34 stories and 144 units, near Third Avenue. And there's Place 57, a condominium at No. 207 with 38 stories, whose Baccarat-crystal entryway fixture casts an aquarium-like glow across the lobby.
At the street's eastern terminus, just beyond a diamond-shaped ''dead end'' sign, ramps descend to tiny Sutton Place Park, one of the few public open spaces on 57th that are not wrapped around high-rises.
Similarly quiet, but for much different reasons, 57th's western edge slopes down a wind-whipped hill to meet the West Side Highway at 12th Avenue.
There, an industrial mix of CBS television studios, a BMW showroom and garages for pedicabs creates a somewhat desolate vibe. Yet there are buildings like the Helena, at 11th Avenue, a gray-and-blue-banded rental, which offers its residents an on-site market and a restaurant, perhaps to offset the lack of services immediately available.
Other blocks in this western area, known as Clinton, are marked by brownstone tenements, some with dusty windows, and white-brick doorman rentals like South Park Apartments, at No. 435, near 10th Avenue, which has 283 units.
Ninth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas seem to constitute the bookends for the street's most coveted buildings. These include the Parc Vendome, a condo complex made up of four Depression-era beige-brick buildings topped by balustrades. The narrow casement windows in many of its units open onto an interior courtyard.
The Osborne Apartments, a co-op at No. 205, dates to 1885, when West Midtown was a distinguished residential area. The stained-glass panels in its upstairs bay windows are echoed in the kaleidoscopic lobby, which glistens with gold, pink and blue panels and trim.
Modern architecture also makes its presence felt, in places like Metropolitan Tower, a 1980s creation whose angular black hulk juts skyward at No. 142.
Carnegie Hall underwent a significant symbolic transition in 2010, with the relocation of the last of its resident artists, whose upstairs lofts had been a defining feature for decades. Its nonperformance space is now entirely offices and classrooms, along with music rehearsal spaces.
A 600-unit rental from Durst Fetner Residential, shaped like a pyramid, is soon to rise at 12th and 57th. And One57, from the Extell Development Company, which at 90 stories would be the city's tallest residence, looks to be halfway to its goal near Seventh Avenue.
The Sheffield, a 1970s rental turned condo at No. 322 that flanks the crinkled facade of the Hearst Tower, has 582 units, from studios to four-bedrooms, starting at $775,000. They are 75 percent sold, said Sophia Cicilioni of the Marketing Directors, which is handling sales for the building.
Then there's the 59-story rental-and-condo hybrid from the World-Wide Group, at Second Avenue, which the recession put on ice. Work there has revived, said David Lowenfeld, a company principal. Already, spaces for two schools that are to be part of the complex are complete, as is a berth for a Whole Foods, which Mr. Lowenfeld said would open this summer.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In mid-January, 196 co-ops and condos were listed on 57th, at a median of $799,000, according to Streeteasy.com.
The priciest was a duplex penthouse co-op at No. 303, the Excelsior, with five bedrooms, three and a half baths and 5,100 square feet, listed at $9.95 million. The most affordable was a studio at No. 457, an elevator co-op that allows pets, at $175,000.
Since the market's peak, activity has dropped considerably. In 2007, Streeteasy indicates, there were 313 sales; last year there were 194. The decline was about 38 percent, though some of last year's deals have not yet been recorded.
Even so, properties have not sold at steep discounts. Prices have in fact edged up. In 2007, the median sale price was $754,000; in 2011 it was $860,000.
WHAT TO DO
In addition to the gallery-hopping and high-end shopping, there are seasonal events like the Thanksgiving Day Parade, which Becky Weinstein enjoys from her two-bedroom pied-a-terre at Central Park Place, a condo at Eighth Avenue. Ms. Weinstein, a marriage therapist who lives in Mendham, N.J., during the week, has hosted as many as 60 guests on parade mornings.
Other days, she takes in jazz at the Time Warner Center or visits the Museum of Arts and Design, each two blocks away. ''You just walk out of your apartment,'' she said, ''and there's just so much to do.''
THE SCHOOLS
Some of the street is zoned for Public School 111, on West 53rd Street, which teaches prekindergarten through eighth grade. On state exams last year, 67 percent of fourth-graders met standards in English, 85 percent in math. Citywide percentages were 51 and 62.
A high school option is Beacon, on West 61st Street, where SAT averages last year were 562 in reading, 554 in math and 567 in writing, versus 437, 460 and 432 citywide.
THE HISTORY
Among the artists who have honed their skills at the Art Students League are Donald Judd; Childe Hassam, who lived at No. 130; and Augustus Saint-Gaudens, whose statue of the Civil War general William Tecumseh Sherman guards an entrance to Central Park.
Correction: February 5, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The ''Living In'' article last Sunday, about 57th Street in Manhattan, misstated the age of Michael Ramah, a 57th Street resident who lives in a prewar co-op near First Avenue. He is 58, not 68.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FIXTURES: At work inside the Art Students League, a 57th Street institution since the 1890s. Spanning Manhattan from river to river, 57th courses through the heart of the main retail district. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); RETAILERS (74%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (55%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (53%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



1324 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: An 'Occu-Party' in Brooklyn Leads to 4 Arrests

BYLINE: SARAH MASLIN NIR


HIGHLIGHT: An "Occu-Party" at an unoccupied residential building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, ended with four arrests on Saturday night. 

 BODY:
Six officers were injured in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, when the police broke up a party in a vacant residential building thrown by members of the Occupy movement on Saturday night, the police said. Four protesters were arrested, including a 21-year-old woman who was charged with assaulting a police officer.
Several dozen protesters were inside 205 North 8th Street, an unoccupied luxury building called The Bedford, for an event dubbed in online flyers as an "Occu-Party." Some of the attendees spray-painted slogans across the walls inside the building's units, according to the police; photos on social media sites showed phrases like "Life is a protest" and "Cannibalize the crisis!"
After the police responded to a call about the party, the group spilled out onto the street, one or more people tossing street corner trash cans into the street, police said.
Two officers were hit in their heads by projectiles thrown by protesters, a spokesman for the Police Department said, and all of the injured officers were taken to Bellevue Hospital Center. The other three people who were arrested were charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest.
Although it is unclear who organized the gathering, a subgroup called Occupy Williamsburg was recently formed to mixed reaction. Vice Magazine posted a notice about the group's first general assembly to Twitter in December - it was at the Indie bar Union Pool - with the hashtag, "Not a joke." But others have noted that Williamsburg may be a near-perfect representation of the kinds of economic disparities that launched the movement.
Apartments at The Bedford range from $625,000 for a 767-square-foot one bedroom to $319,000 for a 420-square-foot studio, according to listings on the Street Easy Web site.
After the ruckus dissipated just after 11:30 p.m., the police discovered one of their squad cars had been vandalized: on the driver's side, a line of black spray paint spanned the length of the car, a police spokesman said.

        
Retired Police Commander Could See Dismissal of Protest Charges
        
Occupy Wall Street Drops Suit on Zuccotti Park
        
Turning Subway Tracks Into Ad Hoc Wishing Wells
        
Group Sues Over Denial of Permit to Protest at Courthouse
        
Money Low, Occupy Wall St. Tightens Budget

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); VANDALISM (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); BUDGETS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) Occupy Wall Street; Williamsburg; Brooklyn; Crime & Public Safety

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1325 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Old Techies Never Die; They Just Can't Get Hired

BYLINE: DAMON DARLIN


HIGHLIGHT: While California employment figures show that Silicon Valley's technology sector has more than made up for job losses that occurred early in the recession, the rebound has not helped everyone. Older tech workers still struggle to find work. 

 BODY:
While Web-based companies like Facebook and Google are scouring the world for new talent to hire, older technology workers often find that their skills are no longer valued, reports Aaron Glantz of the Bay Area Citizen and The New York Times. Part of the problem, analysts said, is that many of the companies shedding jobs are technology manufacturers, while most of the companies that are hiring are Internet-based. Read more 

        
For Newcomers in Silicon Valley, the Dream of Entrepreneurship Still Lives
        
Unboxed Extra: I.B.M. and America's Job Challenge
        
Yipit, on the Move, in a Thriving Tech Sector
        
More Employers Use Social Networks to Check Out Applicants

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OLDER WORKERS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (88%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%) employment; older workers; tech; Internet; Policy

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



1326 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Mobil to Sell Its Japanese Arm for $3.9 Billion

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Exxon Mobil said on Sunday that it has agreed to sell its Japanese subsidiary to TonenGeneral Sekiyu, a major refinery operator in Japan, for about $3.9 billion. 

 BODY:
Exxon Mobil said on Sunday that it had agreed to sell its Japanese subsidiary to TonenGeneral Sekiyu, a major refinery operator in Japan, for about $3.9 billion, as part of a revamping of the oil giant's operations in that country.
Under the terms of the deal, Exxon will sell a 99 percent stake in the subsidiary, ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha, to TonenGeneral. Exxon will in turn shed most of its controlling stake in TonenGeneral, keeping a 22 percent interest in the Japanese refiner.
The deal represents the latest move by Exxon and other major oil companies to shift their focus from refining operations to higher-margin businesses like exploration and development of new sources of oil and natural gas.
There is surplus refinery capacity in many parts of the world in large part because of the economic downturn, which has sliced into demand for gasoline and other petroleum products.
Meanwhile, high oil prices and relatively low gasoline prices have squeezed refinery profits. Royal Dutch Shell and BP are selling refineries in Western Europe and the United States. Several refiners have closed a handful of refineries on the East Coast in recent years, and a few are up for sale. ConocoPhillips plans to separate its refinery operations from oil and gas exploration and production.
TonenGeneral will also streamline its operations in light of what it says is declining demand for oil in Japan, which has put pressure on the company's profit margins.
"The company will be able to more effectively execute locally driven investments and other business decisions that will help the company adapt to the challenging operating environment," TonenGeneral said in a statement.
TonenGeneral will continue to have exclusive use of Exxon brands like Esso, Mobil and General in Japan. Exxon will also provide technology and supply services to TonenGeneral.
The Japanese refiner plans to finance the transaction with some of its 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in cash on hand and with bank debt. The deal is expected to close by June 1.
TonenGeneral was advised by Nomura Securities and the law firm Nishimura & Asahi.

        
ConocoPhillips to Sell Up to $10 Billion of Assets
        
A Big Bet on Exco and Natural Gas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) ExxonMobil; TonenGeneral Sekiyu; Exxon Mobil Corporation; Exxon Mobil Corporation|XOM|NYSE; Energy; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); TONENGENERAL SEKIYU KK (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil Corporation

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); COP (NYSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); 5012 (TSE) (58%) Exxon Mobil Corporation; XOM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1327 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: In Davos, Technology Moves Center Stage

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: After a year that has included the social media-fueled protests of the Arab Spring and Occupy Wall Street, global Internet privacy legislation and billions of dollars in technology stock offerings, tech and social media have not only entered the building at Davos, they are the walls holding it up. 

 BODY:
 DAVOS, Switzerland -- When I set out to report at the World Economic Forum, I imagined it might be difficult to find technology-related stories. It turns out, I was a tad wrong. I would have had more luck finding a snowless Alpine mountain in the winter than finding people discussing a topic that did not involve technology.
After a year that has included the social media-fueled protests of the Arab Spring and Occupy Wall Street, global Internet privacy legislation and billions of dollars in technology stock offerings, tech and social media have not only entered the building, they are the walls holding it up.
Even the 102-page program guide for the World Economic Forum, where business, political and intellectual leaders gather each year to talk and frolic, has more references to technology and social media than any of the nerdiest Silicon Valley blogs I read daily.
Of course, tech is not a new concept at the forum. Eric E. Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, told me he had been attending Davos for 15 years, two years before Google was even created.
But what has changed, I was told by dozens of people I spoke with, is technology's infusion into every topic here.
Sessions on philanthropy, agriculture, social unrest, media and the economy were all full of digital banter. One attendee even told me that social media repeatedly came up during a discussion on religion.
Paulo Coelho, the best-selling Brazilian novelist, said in an interview that business and political leaders were finally accepting the power of social media. "Five years ago Davos was discussing new business models; now that has totally dropped. Now it is all about the Internet," he told me. "They used to have answers here, and now it seems people are more comfortable with questions; the Internet has a lot of questions."
Mr. Coelho, by the way, has more than seven million followers on Facebook and three million on Twitter.
Anna Ewing, Nasdaq's chief information officer, said, "Technology is now framed as a core strategic and business issue."
"It's part of every discussion here," she said, and "not just something that is being talked about by the technoweenies." Those "technoweenies" are also the new celebrities of Davos. During a philanthropy plenary session I attended, Sean Parker, the Napster entrepreneur and the former president of Facebook, nearly ran out of the room after his session had finished as dozens of people tried to corner him.
Some of the most elite parties - a renowned part of the Davos experience - took place in the Swiss chalets of tech celebrities too, including Mr. Parker and Yuri Milner, the Russian billionaire who has invested in Facebook, Zynga and Groupon.
Though Silicon Valley was top of mind, there was also a growing worry about the loss of jobs that often results from new technologies. The new jobs created don't usually fit the qualifications of the newly unemployed. When cars drive themselves, for example, what happens to the millions of jobs that will inevitably be lost?
Tech drives the economy, but it doesn't drive employment. "We are a 100-person company and we serve 50 million people. That kind of leverage has never existed before," said Drew Houston, co-founder of the start-up Dropbox, a service that stores and shares digital files. Mr. Schmidt of Google said, "At Davos the conversation is really about economic growth and the reality is that technological advancement benefits those who are educated but endangers jobs that are routine and automatable."
"This has been true for two hundred years with technologies," he added.
Next year as the wealthy and the powerful gather here again to discuss the same topics, the technoweenies among them will have moved society even further forward.

        
At Davos, Discussions of a Global Data Deluge
        
IMAX Chief Envisions the Future of 3-D in Theaters
        
Disruptions: Design Sets the Tone at a New Start-Up
        
Today's Wearable Computers Help You Sleep, Not Tweet
        
Disruptions: Resolved in 2012: To Enjoy the View Without Help From an iPhone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TRENDS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); WRITERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Davos; Disruptions; innovations; jobs; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Networking (Internet); World Economic Forum; Internet; Policy; Social

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); GROUPON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%) World Economic Forum

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%) SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012



1328 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: ABB to Buy Thomas & Betts for $3.9 Billion

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: ABB of Switzerland is near a deal to buy Thomas &#038; Betts, an American maker of electrical connectors, for about $4 billion in cash, a person briefed on the matter said on Sunday. 

 BODY:
6:52 a.m. | Updated ABB of Switzerland agreed on Monday to buy Thomas & Betts, an American maker of electrical connectors, for about $3.9 billion in cash.
The deal was first reported on DealBook on Sunday.
Under the terms of the deal, ABB will pay Thomas & Betts shareholders $72 a share in cash, 24 percent above the company's closing price on Friday. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the second quarter.
Shares of Thomas & Betts closed on Friday at $57.95, giving it a market value of about $3 billion. The shares have risen 22.6 percent in the last 12 months.
The takeover of Thomas & Betts is one of the largest friendly transactions announced this year. Bankers and lawyers work to seize upon what they say are improving conditions for deal-making after what they described as a disappointing environment for mergers in 2011, hurt by the European fiscal crisis.
Among the largest deals announced in 2012 are a Japanese consortium's $7.3 billion purchase of the Royal Bank of Scotland's aircraft leasing unit and Eastman Chemical's $3.4 billion takeover of a fellow chemical maker, Solutia.
ABB, one of Switzerland's biggest industrial companies, has made little secret of its desire to grow through "bolt-on" acquisitions that supplement existing businesses. Joseph M. Hogan, the company's American chief executive and a former General Electric executive, has said that one of ABB's growth areas would likely be in the United States, which he described in 2010 as on the verge of "reindustrializing." 
Such a strategy would also give ABB a hedge against prolonged weak demand in Europe.
The company's last major deal was in November 2010, when it purchased another American company, Baldor Electric, for about $3.1 billion.
In Thomas & Betts, ABB will acquire a big maker of industrial electrical components. Thomas & Betts was founded in 1898 and grew as the use of electricity spread across the country. Among its customers are power utilities and construction companies.
The company, which is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on Monday, earned $145.6 million in profit for 2010 on revenue of $2 billion.
Analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a research report on Sunday that the deal made sense for Thomas & Betts, given that the company lacked a clear succession plan for its current chief executive, Dominic J. Pileggi. It also appears to coincide with improving economic conditions in the United States.
"The timing for any such transaction is near perfect into what looks like the beginnings of strong upturns in U.S. utility and construction markets," the analysts wrote.
The company, based in Memphis, has 8,750 employees.
News of the talks was first reported by The Wall Street Journal online.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and the law firm Kirkland & Ellis advised ABB on the deal. Deutsche Bank and the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell advised to Thomas & Betts.
An earlier version of this article misstated where ABB is located. The company's headquarters are in Switzerland, not Sweden.

        
Deals Abroad (or Outside Delaware)
        
Despite ABB Deal, Europe Is Cautious on Mergers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WIRING DEVICE MFG (92%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRICAL COMPONENT & DEVICE MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MERGERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SUCCESSION PLANS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (66%); CHEMICALS (66%); CHEMICALS MFG (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) ABB; Thomas & Betts; ABB Ltd; Thomas & Betts Corporation; ABB Ltd|ABB|NYSE; Thomas & Betts Corporation|TNB|NYSE; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: ABB LTD (92%); THOMAS & BETTS CORP (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); BALDOR ELECTRIC CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ABB Ltd; Thomas & Betts Corporation

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (92%); ABJ (FRA) (92%); ABBN (SWX) (92%); ABB (STO) (92%); ABB (NYSE) (92%); ABB (NSE) (92%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%) ABB Ltd; ABB; NYSE; ABB Ltd; ABB; NYSE; Thomas & Betts Corporation; TNB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: DOMINIC J PILEGGI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1329 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Banks Tally Their Exposure to Europe's Debt Maelstrom

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Some banks are more hedged than others against the possibility of a debt cascade in Europe. But greater disclosure requirements have so far made the credit-default swap arena only slightly less opaque. 

 BODY:
After a hurricane, homeowners check nervously to see if their insurance will cover all of the damage. With the European financial crisis still threatening a trail of defaults, United States banks are betting that their insurance is going to pay out.
Five large American banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, have more than $80 billion of exposure to Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece, the most economically stressed nations in the euro currency zone, according to a New York Times analysis of the banks' financial disclosures.
 But these banks have made extensive use of a type of financial insurance, credit-default swaps, to help them offset any losses that might occur if defaults swamped the five troubled nations. 
Using these swaps, along with other measures, the five banks have cut their theoretical exposure to the troubled countries by $30 billion, to $50 billion. The analysis also shows that Citigroup has the greatest percentage of its exposure potentially protected, at 47 percent, while Bank of America has bought the least protection, at 12 percent.
On Sunday, the Greek government appeared close to a deal with the majority of its creditors that would lead to big write-downs in the value of its debt. But even a deal could spawn a series of events that could lead to payouts on Greek credit-default swaps. While the Greek swaps would probably be paid, they represent only part of the $602 billion of swaps that have been written on the five troubled countries.
Credit-default swaps have functioned well for big bankruptcies, but they were also a big source of systemic weakness in 2008, when the American International Group nearly collapsed because it could not make payments on its side of its swaps contracts. Some market participants now doubt they would work properly during periods of great financial instability.
"The likelihood of actually getting paid out from owning a credit-default swap would be troubling to me if this were my hedge against a systemic shock -- especially in a political environment unfriendly to more Wall Street bailouts," Mark Spitznagel, chief investment officer at the hedge fund Universa Investments, said through a spokesman.
Since the A.I.G. debacle, regulators have been working to ensure financial firms will actually be able to make, or collect, payments on their swaps when markets are failing. While regulators have the power to get a detailed look at banks' swaps positions, investors have struggled to get a solid grasp of their exposures from the banks' financial filings.
Analyzing banks' Europe-related swaps can be like a walk through a fun house, where appearances are distorted and you do not know what is around the corner. The degree of disclosure among the five banks differs greatly, and not all of them give a complete snapshot of their exposures and offsetting bets.
But that could change in February, when the banks release 2011 annual reports. The Securities and Exchange Commission this month requested that banks now provide fuller and more consistent presentations of their European positions, saying disclosures have lacked transparency, and might therefore be inadequate for investors. Bank representatives last week said they would comply with the guidance.
One upshot of the new disclosure might be that certain banks' European numbers could suddenly look substantially bigger, since the S.E.C. is effectively asking banks to unbundle key exposures in their financial statements so outsiders can see how big they are before offsetting items. 
"If you do see a jump in gross exposures, there will be new questions for management," said Mike Mayo, a bank analyst with the brokerage CLSA.
Citigroup said it had $20.2 billion of exposure to the five stressed peripheral countries at the end of last year. The bank said it had $9.6 billion of "credit protection" on those countries, and had set aside $4.2 billion of collateral that would also offset its total exposure.
Collecting on the swaps would mean Citigroup's counterparties having the money in stressed times to make a full payment. John Gerspach, Citigroup's chief financial officer, said this month that the bank was highly confident it could collect, adding that the entities it bought protection from were "very high quality."
Citigroup's disclosed gross exposure to the five countries, including $7.4 billion in loans that have not actually been drawn, was $28.9 billion at the end of last year. Its net number, after credit-default swaps and collateral, was $15.1 billion. Put another way, Citigroup has "hedged" 47 percent of its disclosed exposure to the five countries.
Bank of America appears to have hedged the least, with only 12 percent of its stated $14.4 billion exposure offset with credit-default protection, according to the analysis. "We carefully manage our risk while still supporting our clients in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain," said a Bank of America spokesman, Jerome F. Dubrowski.
Like other firms, Bank of America has cut its European exposure by aggressively selling assets and cutting back on lending since 2009, when the region's debt began to look like a serious problem. The bank's exposure to the five countries is down by 44 percent since 2009, Mr. Dubrowski said. Also important, the new S.E.C. disclosure request could reveal the extent to which a bank has bought credit protection from banks based in the stressed European countries.
The fear is that a bank, say, in Italy, would be unable to pay out on its swaps if the country's government went into default. Morgan Stanley implicitly recognizes that in its European disclosures. Alone among the five banks, it broke out the amount of default protection it had bought from banks in the five peripheral countries, about $1.43 billion.
Credit-default swaps can be dangerous because they have the ability to hit one side of the trade with a demand for an overwhelmingly large payout if a default occurs. Right now, it costs a bank $401,000 a year to insure $10 million of Italian government debt for five years, according to Markit, a data provider. If Italy took a serious turn for the worse, and its government debt seemed in real danger of default, that swap price would rapidly spike higher, as happened with Greece.
If that occurred, the bank that sold the protection might then have to post a lot of cash to ensure it would make good on the swap. Large cash calls like that might drain some banks of liquid assets, causing systemic stress.
If an important part of the financial system overhaul were in place by now, there may be fewer questions about whether banks would be able to meet cash calls in stressed times. The change involves directing most swaps trades to clearinghouses, whose job is to ensure that the money flows underlying a trade are made. Clearinghouses would standardize collateral payments across the default swap market, and they might demand higher amounts of collateral than banks currently demand from each other.
Recognizing this weakness in the derivatives market, finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20 leading industrialized nations said in 2009 that they wanted to have clearing in place for all standardized derivatives by the end of 2012.
Yet, as of June, only 9.4 percent of the $29.6 trillion credit-default swap market is centrally cleared, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Notably, the credit-default swaps that pay out if a European government defaults appear to have been held back from central clearing by the British regulator, the Financial Services Authority, which declined to comment on why it had not yet approved these swaps.
As things stand, banks may still be able to avoid using their default swaps, except, perhaps, those on Greece. That is because the European Central Bank has taken stronger actions to prevent the crisis from worsening, like making $620 billion of cheap loans to European banks in December. But the central bank's moves do little to actually reduce European government debt levels.
Until those come down, the banks are betting on their hedges, imperfect as they may be.

        
Weak Quarter Weighs on JPMorgan's 2011 Profit
        
Wall Street Braces for Dismal 4th Quarter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (92%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); EURO CRISIS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Bank of America; Citigroup; Goldman Sachs; JPMorgan Chase &; Morgan Stanley; sovereign debt crisis; Banking and Financial Institutions; Credit Default Swaps; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (90%); PORTUGAL (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1330 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Justice Department Official to Join Davis Polk Law Firm

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Greg D. Andres was deputy assistant attorney general for the criminal division and spent nearly a decade at the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn. 

 BODY:
Greg D. Andres, a senior Justice Department official, is leaving the government to join the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, according to two people with direct knowledge of his move.
Mr. Andres was deputy assistant attorney general for the criminal division, where he supervised the department's fraud and organized crime sections.
After two years in Washington, Mr. Andres returned this month to the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn, where he had been a prosecutor for nearly a decade and had risen to chief of the criminal division. Mr. Andres, 44, will start at Davis Polk in New York at the end of February, said the two people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
 A revolving door between the Justice Department and corporate law firms has been longstanding. Recent moves include Christine A. Varney, the government's former top antitrust lawyer, who left last year to join Cravath, Swaine & Moore, and Boyd M. Johnson III, the former deputy United States attorney in Manhattan, who recently departed for WilmerHale.
Mr. Andres worked in Washington under Lanny A. Breuer, assistant attorney general for the criminal division. He supervised the prosecution of a number of prominent fraud cases, including the indictment of R. Allen Stanford, the former Texas financier on trial on fraud charges.
A frequent presence on Capitol Hill, Mr. Andres testified before Congress on health care fraud and the government's crackdown on the bribery of foreign officials.
He worked at Davis Polk & Wardwell for two years in the late 1990s before becoming a prosecutor.
As a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, Mr. Andres earned his stripes trying organized crime, terrorism and fraud cases. He helped secure convictions of two former money managers at the investment bank Credit Suisse for defrauding clients in the sale of subprime mortgage securities, one of the first cases tied to the financial crisis.
Mr. Andres has also spent more than a decade leading the prosecution of the Bonanno crime family. The case secured the convictions of about 75 organized crime figures and associates. One of the defendants, Vincent J. Basciano, a former beauty salon owner who was known as Vinny Gorgeous, was accused of a plot to kill Mr. Andres.
At Davis Polk, Mr. Andres will join the prestigious white-collar defense practice, which in 2009 hired Linda Chatman Thomsen, the former head of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Davis Polk's current assignments include defending the owners of the New York Mets against a lawsuit brought by the trustee seeking to recover money for victims of the fraud perpetrated by Bernard L. Madoff.
The recent return by Mr. Andres to the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn was always meant as a brief stop before entering private practice, the two people said. His family lives in New York, and he commuted to Washington while posted there.
Mr. Andres is one-half of a legal power couple. His wife is Ronnie Abrams, a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan who last July was nominated by President Obama to be a judge in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
While she awaits confirmation, Ms. Abrams works at Mr. Andres's new employer, where she runs the firm's pro bono program. Davis Polk is also where she and Mr. Andres met, in 1997, as young associates just out of law school.

        
Dodd-Frank Inches Along
        
Davis Polk Hires Former Antitrust Regulator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (94%); LAWYERS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LITIGATION (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BRIBERY (72%); BASEBALL (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); TESTIMONY (70%); FAMILY (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); SECURITIES LAW (67%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (63%); TERRORISM (63%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (62%); SUBPRIME LENDING (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%) Davis Polk & Wardwell; Greg D. Andres; Hiring; Legal & General; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (98%); CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (91%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (98%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (56%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1331 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Newt Gingrich and the Future of the Right

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: What do the highs and lows of Gingrich's candidacy tell us about where the Republican Party might be headed? 

 BODY:
In 1999, shortly after the Senate voted to acquit President Clinton on two charges of impeachment stemming from his affair with the intern Monica Lewinsky, Paul Weyrich - mastermind of the union of the Republican Party and the Christian right, a founder of the Heritage Foundation, the Moral Majority and the Free Congress Foundation - threw up his hands in despair.
In a letter to his ideological allies, Weyrich declared: "I no longer believe that there is a moral majority. I do not believe that a majority of Americans actually shares our values."
Weyrich declared defeat:
Cultural Marxism is succeeding in its war against our culture. The question becomes, if we are unable to escape the cultural disintegration that is gripping society, then what hope can we have?
In the face of this onslaught of moral corruption, Weyrich counseled withdrawal from society at large. A "legitimate strategy for us to follow is to look at ways to separate ourselves from the institutions that have been captured by the ideology of Political Correctness, or by other enemies of our traditional culture," he wrote. "We need to drop out of this culture, and find places, even if it is where we physically are right now, where we can live godly, righteous and sober lives."
What would Weyrich, who died in 2008, make of the fact that Newt Gingrich - who was himself having an adulterous affair during the Clinton impeachment proceedings (one of several conducted by the former speaker, according to his own testimony and a number of lengthy journalistic investigations, including this one from CBS and that one from the Daily Beast) - won the 2012 South Carolina Republican primary with a plurality of voters who described themselves as evangelical or born-again Christians
Exit polls show that Gingrich beat Romney by 44-22 among born-again and evangelical Christians, and by 46-10 among voters who said the religious convictions of the candidates mattered "a great deal." His margins were equally strong among supporters of (and sympathizers with) the Tea Party, a constituency that closely overlaps with religious conservatives.
In fact, the Gingrich campaign reveals the current state of the Christian right, its status anxieties, its desperation, its frustration and in particular its anger. The extreme volatility of Gingrich's primary season bid reflects not only the success and failure of his own tactical maneuvers and those of his opponents, but also the ambivalence of the Republican electorate in choosing between ideology and pragmatism - an intraparty struggle dating back to the candidacy of Barry Goldwater in 1964.
In strategic terms, religious conservatives need to be motivated to turn out in high numbers. Republican consultants have developed tools to identify and inflame what they call conservative "anger points."
 The consultant who pioneered this work, Alex Gage, now works for the Romney campaign. 
But it is Gingrich who is the quintessential "anger points" candidate.
Richard Land, the host of the nationally syndicated radio broadcast "For Faith & Family" and president of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, noted as others have that Gingrich won the hearts of many devout voters two weeks ago when he exploded in anger as CNN's John King asked him to respond to the claim made by his second wife, Marianne, that he had refused to give up his six-year affair with Callista Bisek and offered his wife the option of an "open marriage."
Gingrich's reply to King brought the audience to its feet, capturing one of the most deeply felt conservative "anger points" - hostility to the mainstream media:
I think the destructive vicious negative nature of much of the news media makes it harder to govern this country, harder to attract decent people to run for public office. I'm appalled you would begin a presidential debate on a topic like that.
The way Land sees it, Gingrich's answer went beyond merely nodding toward the anti-media spirit among conservative Christian voters and reached forward instead to what they imagined would be an apocalyptic, nearly eschatological campaign between Obama and Gingrich. "They would love to see a false smarty pants decapitated by a real intellectual," Land told me. "He would tear Obama's head off."
Evidence in support of Land's analysis can be found in a webcast on the Internet site of Don Wildmon's American Family Association. On the site, during an interview with Matt Barber, an aggressive promoter of a socially conservative agenda, one of the hosts, Ed Vitagliano, voiced unalloyed joy over a video from Jon Stewart's "Daily Show" that likened the Gingrich-King confrontation to a nature show. Laughing, Vitagliano describes how Stewart
showed the exchange between John King and Newt Gingrich and had footage of a lion chasing down a zebra. And then after the lion kills the zebra and looks up with its fur with blood, they switched back to a picture of Newt Gingrich with blood over his face as if had just made a meal out of John King.
Gingrich is the first conservative presidential candidate to campaign on a package of traditional values from which he is exempting issues relating to personal sexual behavior. And there are reasons why this strategy worked on Jan. 21: The moral vision of the religious right is collapsing everywhere, including within its own ranks. 
There are fewer and fewer "traditional" families in the United States; the number of secular voters is growing at a faster rate than the number of those who are religiously observant; women's rights and homosexual rights have become broadly accepted; births outside of marriage are now routine among whites, Hispanics and African Americans.
While some religious conservatives are backing the former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, many partisans on the moral values right have lined up behind Gingrich, including a good number who formerly sympathized with Michele Bachmann and Herman Cain. Joining Gingrich's National Faith Coalition are Tim and Beverly LaHaye (Tim LaHaye is the author of "Battle for the Family" and Beverly LaHaye is the founder of Concerned Women for America, the largest women's pro-family advocacy group in America); Dr. Jim Garlow, the California pastor who presides over the website ProtectMarriage.com, which backed the Proposition 8 campaign against gay marriage; and Don Wildmon, whose American Family Association website features his unshakeable commitment to "Strengthening Today's Marriage and Family Movement."
In South Carolina, we saw the consequences of this. Gingrich's strength as the tribune of conservative rage at liberal elites trumped his long history of personal failings. He violated the very family values and the sanctity of marriage that social conservatives profess to believe in, but it was much more important that Gingrich was the enemy of their enemy.
It may well be that in this period of unprecedented moral upheaval, voters in Florida will decide differently from those in South Carolina. Under assault from his competitors on the topic of his multiple marriages, his ethical failings and his role as a Washington influence-peddler, Gingrich pulled in his horns. He seemed almost quiet. He has not been as effective a spokesman for the right's "anger points," which have propelled his success so far.
In the immediate aftermath of his South Carolina victory, Gingrich was riding high in Florida, where the next primary will be held on Tuesday. In three separate polls conducted on Jan. 23 and 24, Gingrich had a seemingly firm advantage, running ahead of Romney by margins of 8, 9 and 5 points.
Seeking to mute the building crescendo of assaults from his competitors, Gingrich abandoned the tactics of an insurgent in favor of those of a front-runner. Gone was the almost violently aggressive debate posture in favor of a surprisingly passive strategy.
"You know, there is a point in the process where it gets unnecessarily personal and nasty. And that's sad," Gingrich declared in the Jan. 23 debate in Tampa.
That is not what his potential supporters want to hear. They want red meat. The more Gingrich backed away, the less he stoked voter anger and the more his numbers dropped.
In the eight most recent polls reported by Real Clear Politics on Jan. 26, Jan. 27 and Jan. 28, Romney has pulled ahead, by 7 to 9 points, rising to an 11 to 16 point advantage on the 28th.
What does this political volatility say about the conservative movement and the Republican Party?
First, that although the Christian right is now in decline, it remains powerful, making up roughly 35 to 40 percent of the Republican primary electorate. But its preoccupations are less and less those of Americans taken as a whole. The Christian right might become increasingly marginalized and as the movement shifts to the periphery, it becomes more of a liability to the party than an asset.
Second, the Republican Party will, over time, struggle to develop a coherent moral stance that does not conflict with the leftward drift, both in values and behavior, of the electorate.
Gingrich's swings from low to high to low to high to low - his success in South Carolina and his increasing desperation in Florida - suggest that his candidacy is more a burst of light before the candle dims than the latest iteration of a vital conservative insurgency.
The larger issue facing the Republican Party is how it will respond to political market forces, to the pressure of changes in public opinion. The party could open up beyond its core believers to accommodate old-school Republican moderates and hold on to its libertarians and still have decent size, strength and power.
But the country is going through a profound restructuring in moral and economic thinking and the danger for Republicans is that their current coalition might become obsolete. If the party doesn't adapt, the alternative is that its power centers - the Christian right, anti-immigration forces, and proponents of policies that benefit the affluent at the expense of the less well-off - will refuse to adjust, in which case the party risks going the way of the Studebaker.
Thomas B. Edsall, a professor of journalism at Columbia University, is the author of the book "The Age of Austerity: How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics," which was published earlier this month.

        
Mitt Romney, the Jacksonville Jaguar
        
Suddenly, Debate No. 19 Means Everything
        
Romney Can't Rumble
        
There They Go Again
        
Let's Not Talk About Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CORRUPTION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) Newt Gingrich; Paul Weyrich; Republican primary campaign; the Christian right; the Moral Majority; Gingrich, Newt; Goldwater, Barry M; King, John; LaHaye, Tim; Weyrich, Paul M; Conservatism (US Politics); Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party; Florida; South Carolina

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%) Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BILL CLINTON (88%) Gingrich, Newt; Goldwater, Barry M; King, John; LaHaye, Tim; Weyrich, Paul M

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Florida; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1332 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Catchy Slogans, Sloppy Ideas

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: At a Southern Baptist church in Florida, Newt Gingrich gets the crowd fired up with outlandish un-truths. 

 BODY:
TAMPA - Herman Cain's endorsement of Newt Gingrich on Saturday night made perfect sense, as each man gravitates to catchy slogans and sloppy ideas. Mr. Cain still dreams of his 9-9-9 tax plan, while Mr. Gingrich fantasizes about a moon base that would probably require a 90-90-90 tax plan.)
They also share a real streak of maliciousness in their political thinking. Mr. Cain, as you'll recall if you haven't blotted it from your mind, said he wouldn't appoint a Muslim to his cabinet, promised to string an electrified killing fence along the Mexico border, and told Occupy protesters that they should "blame themselves" for being poor and unemployed.
Mr. Gingrich, who only seems to go up in the polls when he is lashing out at the press or members of another race, wants to interrogate all liberal judges in Congressional show trials, and remove millions of poor people from food stamps. But those were just last week's firebombs. He tosses new ones everywhere he goes, and did not hold back on Saturday when he spoke at a Southern Baptist church in Winter Park, Fla.

He is always good at judging how far he can go with his crowds, and this one was clearly passionate about ending abortion. So he unpacked a series of mistruths about the subject that had the crowd of about 1,000 in the Aloma Church roaring, each more outlandish - and malign - than the last.
The judiciary, he said, is "totally out of control" and needs to be reined in. (The facts: even after three years of the Obama administration, Republican-appointed judges are a majority on the Supreme Court, the federal appeals courts, and the federal district courts.)
One of the reasons there are so many abortions in the United States, he said, is that the federal government funds Planned Parenthood. (In fact, as he knows full well, federal law already prohibits any of the $75 million or so the government gives to Planned Parenthood from being used for abortion. If he ever managed to cut off that money, it would mean an end to HIV screening, STD treatment and counseling, primarily for poor women - the real casualties of his thoughtless campaign.)
And finally, his most jaw-dropping whopper was on the subject of embryonic stem-cell research: One of the most promising avenues of treatment for Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and spinal cord injuries. (Just a few days ago, there was a report that the cells seemed to be effective against macular degeneration, a leading cause of blindness.)
Mr. Gingrich not only told the church audience that he would eliminate all funding for this research, because it can lead to the destruction of human embryos, but he went one vicious step further. (This maneuver, where he really has an angry head of steam worked up, is well known to his regular listeners.)
Research into embryonic stem cells, he said, has nothing to do with science. "This was the use of science to justify desensitizing society to killing babies," he said. If the "secular left" could have done the same research without killing embryos, they would have rejected it, he said, because their real interest was in exploiting Parkinson's victims to promote abortions.
It was essentially an aside, and yet a breathtaking attack on science and scientists. Dr. Ernest McCulloch, a Canadian scientist who died a year ago at 84, discovered the first stem cell in the 1950s with Dr. James Till. The researchers who followed their example, all desperately trying to find cures for some of mankind's greatest plagues, were dedicated scientists, not ideologues, evil or otherwise.
Nonetheless, it won Mr. Gingrich what he craves - an audience fired up with anger and even hate, surging with applause. 

        
Opinion Report: Green Cabs
        
Wars: Imagined and Real
        
Fighting Absurdity With Absurdity
        
Remember That Study Saying Abortion Makes You Crazy?
        
Opinion Report: Restricting Abortion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (86%); ABORTION (86%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JUDGES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (50%); BLINDNESS (50%) Abortion; Embryonic stem cell research; Herman Cain; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Stem Cells (Embryonic)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012



1333 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Justice Department Official To Join Davis Polk Law Firm

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Greg D. Andres, a senior Justice Department official, is leaving the government to join the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, according to two people with direct knowledge of his move. 
Mr. Andres was deputy assistant attorney general for the criminal division, where he supervised the department's fraud and organized crime sections.
After two years in Washington, Mr. Andres returned this month to the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn, where he had been a prosecutor for nearly a decade and had risen to chief of the criminal division. Mr. Andres, 44, will start at Davis Polk in New York at the end of February, said the two people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
A revolving door between the Justice Department and corporate law firms has been longstanding. Recent moves include Christine A. Varney, the government's former top antitrust lawyer, who left last year to join Cravath, Swaine & Moore, and Boyd M. Johnson III, the former deputy United States attorney in Manhattan, who recently departed for WilmerHale.
Mr. Andres worked in Washington under Lanny A. Breuer, assistant attorney general for the criminal division. He supervised the prosecution of a number of prominent fraud cases, including the indictment of R. Allen Stanford, the former Texas financier on trial on fraud charges.
A frequent presence on Capitol Hill, Mr. Andres testified before Congress on health care fraud and the government's crackdown on the bribery of foreign officials.
He worked at Davis Polk & Wardwell for two years in the late 1990s before becoming a prosecutor.
As a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, Mr. Andres earned his stripes trying organized crime, terrorism and fraud cases. He helped secure convictions of two former money managers at the investment bank Credit Suisse for defrauding clients in the sale of subprime mortgage securities, one of the first cases tied to the financial crisis.
Mr. Andres has also spent more than a decade leading the prosecution of the Bonanno crime family. The case secured the convictions of about 75 organized crime figures and associates. One of the defendants, Vincent J. Basciano, a former beauty salon owner who was known as Vinny Gorgeous, was accused of a plot to kill Mr. Andres.
At Davis Polk, Mr. Andres will join the prestigious white-collar defense practice, which in 2009 hired Linda Chatman Thomsen, the former head of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Davis Polk's current assignments include defending the owners of the New York Mets against a lawsuit brought by the trustee seeking to recover money for victims of the fraud perpetrated by Bernard L. Madoff.
The recent return by Mr. Andres to the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn was always meant as a brief stop before entering private practice, the two people said. His family lives in New York, and he commuted to Washington while posted there.
Mr. Andres is one-half of a legal power couple. His wife is Ronnie Abrams, a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan who last July was nominated by President Obama to be a judge in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
While she awaits confirmation, Ms. Abrams works at Mr. Andres's new employer, where she runs the firm's pro bono program. Davis Polk is also where she and Mr. Andres met, in 1997, as young associates just out of law school.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (93%); LAWYERS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BASEBALL (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); BRIBERY (72%); TESTIMONY (70%); FAMILY (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (63%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%); TERRORISM (63%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (62%); SUBPRIME LENDING (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (98%); CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (91%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (98%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (56%); BERNARD MADOFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1334 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Banks Tally Exposure to Europe's Maelstrom

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
After a hurricane, homeowners check nervously to see if their insurance will cover all of their damages. With the European financial crisis still threatening a trail of defaults, United States banks are betting that their insurance is going to pay out.
Five large American banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, have more than $80 billion of exposure to Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece, the most economically stressed nations in the euro currency zone, according to a New York Times analysis of the banks' financial disclosures.
But these banks have made extensive use of a type of financial insurance, called credit-default swaps, to help them offset any losses that might occur if defaults swamped the five troubled nations. Using these swaps, along with other measures, the five banks have cut their theoretical exposure to the troubled countries by $30 billion, to $50 billion. The analysis also shows that Citigroup has the greatest percentage of its exposure potentially protected at 47 percent, while Bank of America has bought the least protection at 12 percent. 
On Sunday, the Greek government appeared close to a deal with the majority of its creditors that would lead to big write-down in the value of its debt. But even a deal could spawn a series of events that could lead to payouts on Greek credit-default swaps. While the Greek swaps would probably be paid, they represent only part of the $602 billion of swaps that have been written on the five troubled countries.
Credit-default swaps have functioned well for big bankruptcies, but they were also a big source of systemic weakness in 2008, when the American International Group nearly collapsed because it could not make payments on its side of its swaps contracts. Some market participants now doubt they would work properly during periods of great financial instability.
''The likelihood of actually getting paid out from owning a credit-default swap would be troubling to me if this were my hedge against a systemic shock - especially in a political environment unfriendly to more Wall Street bailouts,'' Mark Spitznagel, chief investment officer at Universa Investments, a hedge fund, said through a spokesman.
Since the A.I.G. debacle, regulators have been working to make sure financial firms will actually be able to make, or collect, payments on their swaps when markets are failing. While regulators have the power to get a detailed look at banks' swaps positions, investors have struggled to get a solid grasp of their exposures from the banks' financial filings.
Analyzing banks' Europe-related swaps can be like a walk through a fun house, where appearances are distorted and you don't know what's around the corner. The degree of disclosure among the five banks differs greatly and not all of them give a complete snapshot of their exposures and offsetting bets.
But that could change in February, when the banks release 2011 annual reports. The Securities and Exchange Commission this month requested that banks now provide fuller and more consistent presentations of their European positions, saying disclosures have lacked transparency, and might therefore be inadequate for investors. Bank representatives last week said they would comply with the guidance.
One upshot of the new disclosure might be that certain banks' European numbers suddenly look substantially bigger, since the S.E.C. is effectively asking banks to unbundle key exposures in their financial statements so outsiders can see how big they are before offsetting items. ''If you do see a jump in gross exposures, there will be new questions for management,'' said Mike Mayo, a bank analyst with brokerage CLSA.
Citigroup said it had $20.2 billion of exposure to the five stressed peripheral countries at the end of last year. The bank said it had $9.6 billion of ''credit protection'' on those countries, and had set aside $4.2 billion of collateral that would also offset its total exposure.
Collecting on the credit-protection swaps would mean Citigroup's counterparties having the money in stressed times to make a full payment. John Gerspach, Citigroup's chief financial officer, said this month that the bank was highly confident that it could collect, adding that the entities it bought protection from were ''very high quality.''
Citigroup's disclosed gross exposure to the five countries, including $7.4 billion in loans that have not actually been drawn, was $28.9 billion at the end of last year. Its net number, after credit-default swaps and collateral, was $15.1 billion. Put another way, Citigroup has ''hedged'' 47 percent of its disclosed exposure to the five countries.
Bank of America appears to have hedged the least, with only 12 percent of its stated $14.4 billion exposure offset with credit-default protection, according to the analysis. ''We carefully manage our risk while still supporting our clients in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain,'' said Bank of America spokesman, Jerome F. Dubrowski.
Like other firms, Bank of America has cut its Europe exposure by aggressively selling assets and cutting back on lending since 2009, when the region's debt began to look like a serious problem. The bank's exposure to the five countries is down by 44 percent since 2009, said Mr. Dubrowski. Also important, the new S.E.C. disclosure request could reveal the extent to which a bank has bought credit protection from banks based in the stressed European countries.
The fear is that a bank, say, in Italy, would be unable to pay out on its swaps if the country's government went into default. Morgan Stanley implicitly recognizes that in its European disclosures. Alone among the five banks, it broke out the amount of default protection it had bought from banks in the five peripheral countries, about $1.43 billion.
Credit-default swaps can be dangerous because they have the ability to hit one side of the trade with a demand for a overwhelmingly large payout if a default occurs. Right now, it costs a bank $401,000 a year to insure $10 million of Italian government debt for five years, according to Markit, a data provider. If Italy took a serious turn for the worse, and its government debt seemed in real danger of default, that swap price would rapidly spike higher, as happened with Greece.
If that occurred, the bank that sold the protection might then have to post a lot of cash to ensure it would make good on the swap. Large cash calls like that might drain some banks of liquid assets, causing systemic stress.
If an important part of the financial system overhaul were in place by now, there may be fewer questions about whether banks will be able to meet cash calls in stressed times. The change involves directing most swaps trades to clearinghouses, whose job is to ensure that the money flows underlying a trade are made. Clearinghouses would standardize collateral payments across the default swap market, and they might demand higher amounts of collateral than banks currently demand from each other.
Recognizing this weakness in the derivatives market, finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20 leading industrialized nations said in 2009 that they wanted to have clearing in place for all standardized derivatives by the end of 2012.
Yet, as of June last year, only 9.4 percent of the $29.6 trillion credit-default swap market is centrally cleared, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Notably, the credit-default swaps that pay out if a European government defaults appear to have been held back from central clearing by the British regulator, the Financial Services Authority. The F.S.A. declined to comment on why it has not yet approved these swaps.
As things stand, banks still may be able to avoid using their default swaps, except, perhaps, those on Greece. That's because the European Central Bank has taken stronger actions to prevent the crisis worsening, like making $620 billion of cheap loans to European banks in December. But the bank's moves do little to actually reduce European government debt levels.
Until those come down, the banks are betting on their hedges, imperfect as they may be.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators in Athens. Banks are disclosing more of their exposure to Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KOLESIDIS/REUTERS) (B1)
 Citigroup, which runs Citibank, is confident it can collect on credit-default swaps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) CHARTS: Margins of Uncertainty: The biggest banks have hedged some of their lending, securities and derivatives exposure to the European countries that are ailing the most. But they still report having tens of billions of dollars unprotected. The banks did not report country data uniformly. (Source: Company and regulatory filings) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (71%); EURO (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); GREECE (91%); PORTUGAL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1335 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: In a Gang-Ridden City, New Efforts To Fight Crime While Cutting Costs

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
SALINAS, Calif. -- People in California generally know two things about this agricultural city nestled among lettuce fields east of Monterey's beaches and hotels: John Steinbeck was born here, and it has a big problem with gangs.
Three years ago, the violence between warring Northern and Southern California gang members had become so bad that police and city officials decided to mount an all-out drive to tame it.
They poured money and personnel into a strategy that combined tough law enforcement with job training and a plethora of social services. They developed a countywide violence-reduction plan and sought help from state and federal agencies and the nearby Naval Postgraduate School. A special team of police officers worked overtime making home visits in gang-infested neighborhoods.
The efforts seemed to be paying off. In 2010, this city of 150,000 -- with an estimated 3,500 gang members -- registered 131 shootings and 15 homicides, down from a record of 151 shootings and 29 homicides in 2009, virtually all of them gang-related. Last year the numbers dropped further, to 50 shootings and 12 homicides. 
But the economic malaise that has engulfed California has not spared the city. The Salinas Police Department has shrunk to 144 sworn officers from 184 in the last two years. Financing for nonprofits has dried up, making the promises of job training and other services harder to fulfill. The special police team was disbanded -- the officers were too exhausted from filling staffing gaps to put in the overtime. Staffing for the Police Department's violence-suppression unit, a central part of the program's enforcement arm, was cut back.
''It felt like, overnight, budgets were cut, our grants expired, our service providers lost funding and we were scrambling,'' said Sgt. Sheldon Bryan, who managed the Police Department's Cease-fire program, an important component of the antigang effort. In small cities forced into drastic belt-tightening, ambitious social or law enforcement programs are often the first to go. But city leaders in Salinas worried that they could not afford to abandon what they had started.
Gangs were the city's biggest and most stubborn problem, a safety and public-relations nightmare. Mayor Dennis Donohue says that when he gives Rotary Club talks in Monterey or Carmel, he tells the audience that he knows some of them think stepping into Salinas -- crossing the ''lettuce curtain,'' as it is disparagingly called -- means being shot on sight. ''That's a bit of a problem from an economic development standpoint,'' he said.
In fact, gang shootouts do sometimes take place in broad daylight, gang members hiding sawed-off shotguns in parks where children play. Members of Southern California gangs who once rarely strayed north of Bakersfield have moved north and planted firm roots in the city.
East Salinas is sprinkled with bloody landmarks, not least the house where 6-year-old Azahel Cruz, at home and dressed for bedtime in his Spider-Man pajamas, was killed by a stray bullet on a March evening in 2010. But the violence also stretches into the affluent streets of South Salinas, where in 2008, gang members knocked on the door of a tidy house with white trim and shot the father of one of their rivals in the head.
''The gang problems go away, and this town is paradise,'' said Kelly McMillin, a deputy police chief. ''If we throw up our hands because we've run out of money, that's just irresponsible.''
Money, of course, was the issue: how to build on the gains that had been made without additional funds? The answer, city leaders decided, was to keep many programs in place but modify them to fit a shrinking budget, deploy police officers more strategically, consolidate the efforts of government and nonprofit agencies under a single organizational structure so as not to duplicate resources and shift more responsibility onto the shoulders of community residents.
''It's a new way of doing business,'' said Georgina Mendoza, a senior deputy city attorney and the program director for the Community Alliance for Safety and Peace, which devised the countywide violence reduction plan. ''Before, we felt more restricted in our own silos, our own lanes. Now, we realize we can't do that.''
The Cease-fire program -- modeled on a highly successful violence-prevention approach pioneered in Boston that uses ''carrots'' in the form of jobs and other services combined with the ''stick'' of intensified law enforcement to persuade hardened gang members to give up violence -- is continuing, albeit in a far more modest form. ''We need to talk about an altered message because I can't promise them jobs I don't have,'' Sergeant Bryan said.
The department has also embarked on some new projects, partnering with the community safety alliance in an ambitious prevention program that focuses on a roughly 20-block neighborhood in East Salinas known as Hebbron Heights, where violence is routine. Last Sunday, a 21-year-old man was shot and killed there, the city's second homicide victim of the year.
As part of the project, the county's mental health agency has held ''charlas'' -- ''chats,'' in Spanish -- to encourage residents to organize and address problems in the neighborhood. Neighborhood leaders and representatives from a variety of government agencies and nonprofits meet regularly in a recreation center at the corner of Hebbron and Fremont Streets, where northern and southern gangs intersect.
The Police Department has opened an office in the recreation center, staffed by two officers, Rich Lopez and Jeffrey Lofton, who spend their days doing whatever is needed, like mediating disputes between sixth-grade girls and helping people in the neighborhood write petitions to have streetlights repaired.
On a recent afternoon, Officer Lopez and Officer Lofton were knocking on doors, chatting with residents and handing out fliers with information about social services. A 90-year-old woman with two Chihuahuas in her yard said there were occasional shots fired on the street, but otherwise things were peaceful. A man complained about his neighbor, who parked too many cars in the driveway and did not like his dogs.
The hope is that through such efforts, the police will come to be viewed as allies and gain valuable intelligence about the structure of gangs in the area. But Officer Lopez and Officer Lofton have 1,000 doors to knock on; two other officers originally assigned to the project were needed elsewhere and pulled off.
Brian Contreras, executive director of 2nd Chance Family and Youth Services, a gang diversion program in town, said that he applauded what the alliance and the police were doing, but he noted that a number of senior gang members were due to be released from prison soon and worried that a resurgence of gang violence would follow.
''We're a little paranoid in the sense of what's going to happen this year and next year, especially when the resources are being cut left and right,'' he said.
Deputy Chief McMillin agreed that the city was now embarked on an experiment in doing more with less, and that the outcome was uncertain.
But, he said, ''We're going to fight this fight whether we're fully funded or half funded or not funded at all.''
Correction: February 1, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about measures under way in Salinas, Calif., to reduce gang violence as the city cuts costs misspelled one of the streets where warring Northern and Southern California gangs intersect. It is Fremont Street, not Freemont.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about measures under way in Salinas, Calif., to reduce gang violence as the city cuts costs misspelled one of the streets where warring Northern and Southern California gangs intersect. It is Fremont Street, not Freemont.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two police officers patrolling in Salinas, Calif., stopped a young man to question him. Vigorous antigang efforts have gotten results, but budget woes have made continued progress uphill work. (A10)
 Rich Lopez, left, and Jeffrey Lofton of the Salinas Police Department focus on getting to know neighborhood residents. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GANGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); OVERTIME (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (96%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1336 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: With Focus on Income Inequality, Albany Bill Will Seek $8.50 Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
The Occupy Wall Street encampment at Zuccotti Park is no more, but the focus it brought to income inequality is having an impact in Albany and beyond.
The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, plans to introduce a bill on Monday to raise the state's minimum wage to $8.50 an hour, a 17 percent increase. The bill also calls for the minimum wage to be adjusted each year for inflation.
Mr. Silver's action follows similar steps by lawmakers across the country: Delaware recently passed a minimum wage increase, and raises are being considered in California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri and New Jersey. 
And Mr. Silver's proposal comes just days after President Obama, in his State of the Union address, described the growing gap between the rich and the poor as the ''defining issue of our time.''
The New York proposal, which Mr. Silver said would be his top legislative priority this year, will be subject to close scrutiny from Senate Republicans and business leaders, who say the measure could hurt job growth. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a political independent with strong ties to the business community, has supported Mr. Silver's call for an increase in the minimum wage.
''It is impossible to live in this city on $15,000 a year,'' said Micah C. Lasher, Mr. Bloomberg's director of state legislative affairs.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has said that he is generally in favor of a minimum wage increase, but that he will have to see the speaker's proposal before deciding whether to support it. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has enjoyed strong support from the business community, but has also been under pressure from the liberal wing of his party to demonstrate concern for the poor.
The state's current minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, which is lower than that of 18 states and the District of Columbia, took effect three years ago as the result of a federal law. The State Legislature last approved a minimum wage increase eight years ago.
The neighboring state with the highest minimum wage is Vermont, at $8.46. In Massachusetts it is $8, and in Connecticut it is $8.25.
For Mr. Silver, the minimum wage proposal is one element of a broader agenda, including a tax cut for families making less than $30,000 per year, that he said he hoped would begin to address inequality issues.
''When you work full time at the minimum wage, you are poor in New York,'' Mr. Silver said in an interview. ''You're not making enough to get by. We want to have people able to support their families, plain and simple.''
Mr. Silver, who is sponsoring the measure with Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, also a Manhattan Democrat, estimated that the increase would benefit one million New Yorkers -- those making less than the proposed amount, and others making slightly more, whose salaries would be adjusted to keep them above the minimum wage.
Supporters say that a minimum wage increase could help bring low-income families out of poverty, stimulate economic growth and spur job creation.
''The Occupy movement shone a light on inequality,'' said Dan Cantor, the executive director of the Working Families Party. ''Raising the minimum wage is a modest but real step in balancing the scales.''
But opponents say it could hurt low-income earners and small businesses, by raising the cost of doing business, which could lead to layoffs.
''The national minimum wage went up, and in the United States of America the economy's the worst it's been since the Great Depression,'' said Senator Tom Libous, a Binghamton Republican. Mr. Libous said he was skeptical of studies suggesting that increasing the minimum wage spurs economic growth.
''I think that's a lame theory that doesn't amount to much,'' he said.
Mr. Silver's proposal may not go far enough for advocates who have called for an even higher minimum wage. Had the national minimum wage kept pace with inflation over the past 40 years, it would be at $10.39 now, according to the National Employment Law Project.
Mr. Silver's proposal ''is a good start, but really is not enough for New York's cost of living and New York's economy,'' said Paul Sonn, the legal co-director at the project.
The Fiscal Policy Institute, which has been supportive of minimum wage increases, argues that people who earn the minimum wage tend to spend all the additional money they receive, which pumps money into the economy. The extra spending will create jobs and benefit the mom-and-pop shops that opponents of an increase say will be most hurt by a higher minimum wage, said James A. Parrott, the chief economist at the institute.
''They're going to be spending more money in local communities, where they live,'' Mr. Parrott said.
But, citing a 2008 study by professors at American University and Cornell, Russell Sykes, a senior fellow at the Empire Center for New York State Policy, said that increasing the minimum wage even to $8.25 could result in a loss of tens of thousands of jobs.
''When you begin to take people who are lower-skilled and require the business to pay them more, they make decisions of a different nature that can lead to job loss,'' Mr. Sykes said. ''It prices less-skilled workers out of the market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TAX LAW (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1337 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include personal income and spending for December (Monday); the S.& P./Case-Shiller home price index for November, the Chicago purchasing managers index for January, and consumer confidence for January (Tuesday); ADP employment for January, the I.S.M. manufacturing index for January and construction spending for December (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims and productivity for the fourth quarter (Thursday); and unemployment for January, the I.S.M. nonmanufacturing index for January and factory orders for December (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Gannett and Wendy's (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Biogen Idec, CIT, Eli Lilly, Exxon Mobil, Mattel, McGraw-Hill, Pfizer, United Parcel Service, U.S. Steel and Amazon.com (Tuesday); Aetna, AOL, Nasdaq OMX, Northrop Grumman, Whirlpool, Allstate, Electronic Arts and Qualcomm (Wednesday); Beazer Homes, Blackstone, Boston Scientific, Cigna, Dow Chemical, International Paper, Kellogg, MasterCard, Merck, The New York Times, Pulte, Sara Lee, Viacom and Take-Two Interactive Software (Thursday); and Clorox, Tyson Foods and Weyerhaeuser (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a Senate Judiciary subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the Video Privacy Protection Act, and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will conduct a hearing about the global energy outlook for 2012 (Tuesday). Automakers will report their sales for January, the Senate Budget Committee will conduct a hearing about the outlook for the euro zone, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the Financial Institutions Examination Fairness and Reform Act, and AMR, the parent of American Airlines, will lay out its cost-cutting plan under bankruptcy protection (Wednesday). Retailers will report their same-store sales for January and a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the collapse of MF Global (Thursday).
IN EUROPE The heads of governments from the European Union will meet in Brussels to wrap up a deficit-reduction treaty to deal with the sovereign debt crisis and Kweku Adoboli, the former UBS trader accused of causing $2.3 billion in losses through unauthorized trading, will enter a plea in London (Monday). The European competition commissioner, Joaquin Almunia, will issue a decision about the proposed merger of Deutsche Borse and the New York Stock Exchange (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); DEBT CRISIS (79%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); EURO (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); PAPER MFG (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); EURO CRISIS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (61%); MERGERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: BIOGEN IDEC INC (70%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (70%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (69%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); ELI LILLY & CO (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (56%); PFIZER INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); TYSON FOODS INC (55%); VIACOM INC (55%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

TICKER: BIIB (NASDAQ) (70%); ADM (NYSE) (70%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (69%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); LLY (SWX) (56%); LLY (NYSE) (56%); LEL (LSE) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (56%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); EA (NASDAQ) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); BSX (NYSE) (56%); TSN (NYSE) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (70%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (70%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (70%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (70%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (70%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (70%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (70%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (56%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (55%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (55%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (66%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGIUM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1338 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Rival Hot Sauce Makers in a Duel for Attention

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
''SOME like it hot,'' Tony Curtis told Marilyn Monroe in the 1959 movie of the same name, referring to music. Since then, Americans have grown to like something else -- food -- even hotter, as evidenced by the popularization of spicy fare like Buffalo chicken wings, made with cayenne pepper hot sauce.
Now, a hot sauce war has broken out in time for the Super Bowl, perhaps the most snack-centric day of the year. According to a survey from the Retail Advertising and Marketing Association, consumers who plan to watch Super Bowl XLVI on Sunday will spend $11 billion on food and other goodies, compared with the $10.1 billion they said they would spend before Super Bowl XLV last year. 
One hot sauce warrior is the McIlhenny Company, which is introducing a seventh flavor in its Tabasco line, Tabasco Buffalo Style hot sauce, joining varieties like the original, known as Tabasco pepper sauce, and chipotle pepper sauce.
The new flavor is celebrated in a campaign by Ogilvy West in Los Angeles as ''from the people who perfected hot sauce,'' offering ''classic Buffalo flavor with just the right amount of heat.''
As those ads begin, Tabasco's principal rival, Frank's RedHot sauce, is expanding to national television a sassy campaign, previously in print and on radio, that carries the theme ''I put that -- -- on everything.'' ( The campaign, with a budget estimated at $15 million, is created by Euro RSCG New York.
In the frank Frank's commercials, a bleeping sound is heard over the word as it is uttered by a mischievous older woman named Ethel. On screen, her mouth is covered by a splat, as if a censor spilled sauce on the film.
Ethel adds ''a little bit of heat'' to everyday life, ''and not only metaphorically,'' said Rahul Sabnis, executive creative director at Euro RSCG New York, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas.
Because ''we want to be clever and fun, but we don't want to go over the top,'' he added, the intent is to portray her as ''your grandmother being a straight talker.''
The maker of Frank's, Reckitt Benckiser, also plans to send a branded bus on a cross-country Frank's to the People tour. It starts this week in Indianapolis, this year's host of the Super Bowl.
When Buffalo wings were first served, in Buffalo, N.Y., in 1964, Frank's RedHot was an ingredient in the sauce. Frank's also offers a RedHot Buffalo Wings sauce, introduced in 1996, and even sells a flavor called Frank's RedHot Hot Buffalo Wings.
The heating up of the hot sauce category is indicative of the increasing efforts by marketers of packaged foods to take advantage of a trend that began in 2008, when consumers seeking to economize started eating at home more often. That dovetailed with another change, a yen for bolder, intensely flavored foods.
For instance, the inside front cover of the Feb. 6 issue of Time magazine carries an ad for Lay's Kettle Cooked Mesquite BBQ potato chips, sold by the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo. ''BBQ so real,'' the headline promises, ''you'll want to wipe the sauce off your face.''
(Hmmmm. Maybe Lay's could flavor a chip with Tabasco or Frank's RedHot.)
''We did a 'needs gap' study with consumers in 2010,'' said Martin Manion, vice president for corporate marketing at the New Orleans office of McIlhenny, and ''over 80 percent of the people we talked to thought that Buffalo would be a great addition to the Tabasco portfolio.''
Although ''Frank's is aligned with chicken wings through the story of Buffalo wings,'' Mr. Manion said, in taste tests with consumers ''six in 10 preferred the Tabasco formula to the one we tested against.''
The campaign promotes the product as ''a Louisiana twist on something you're familiar with,'' he added, echoing a commercial that declares, ''Buffalo, New York, meet Buffalo, Louisiana.''
''What McIlhenny has done is try to understand and remain on the leading edge of how palates have evolved over time,'' Mr. Manion said. ''When we introduced chipotle sauce, 90 percent of people couldn't pronounce it.''
The campaign for Tabasco Buffalo Style, with a budget estimated at $3 million, includes television, radio and online ads; the Tabasco Web site, tabasco.com; and social media like Facebookand Twitter. The campaign carries a theme, ''Are you one of us?,'' created by Ogilvy West for the Tabasco brand.
''There are people who get hot sauce, and those who don't,'' said Colin Drummond, senior partner and head of planning at Ogilvy West, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP, and Tabasco is particularly interested in those ''we call 'zesties,' who share a zest for life and the food they eat.''
His colleague at Ogilvy West, Peter Kang, senior partner and executive creative director, said: ''It's kind of like life turned up to 11. Zesties carry Tabasco with them to put on their Egg McMuffins in the morning and on their dinners at four-star restaurants.''
As Reckitt Benckiser confronts competition in hot sauce, it is introducing a $20 million multimedia campaign -- also by Euro RSCG New York -- for another of its pantry staples, the French's line of mustards, which carries the theme ''Friends. Family. French's.'' In mustards, too, flavor is a focus, with ads for products like Spicy Brown and Dijon With Chardonnay along with original yellow.
Although they are ''so different as brands,'' said Paolo Zotti, vice president for marketing in the food division of Reckitt Benckiser in Chester, N.J., each campaign is about ''trying to leverage and nurture a brand experience'' centered on variety.
''I'm a romantic marketeer,'' he added. ''You're successful if people love your brands.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a TV commercial, the Tabasco brand introduces a Buffalo style flavor, challenging Frank's RedHot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%)

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (82%); MCILHENNY CO (69%); HAVAS SA (57%); RECKITT BENCKISER GROUP PLC (51%)

TICKER: HAV (PAR) (57%); RB (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (69%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (69%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (69%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); INDIANA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1339 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GREENOUGH JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: One-Room School Also One-Student School

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

 BODY:
GREENOUGH, Mont. -- At a time when many schools are concerned about overcrowded classrooms, the Sunset school in this ranching community has a different problem -- keeping its lone student at her desk so it can remain open.
There are other schools in remote rural areas around the West that have only one teacher and one student, but the situation is even starker here. Amber Leetch, age 11, makes up the entire Sunset School District 30.
And while many one-student schools elsewhere in the West are in far-flung, impoverished areas, the Sunset district -- whose entire annual budget is about $83,000 -- is in a prosperous, ranching corner of the state. One of the reasons there is only one student is that the cost of the scenic landscape here has risen so high that young, aspiring ranchers, the kind who would be likely to have school-age children, cannot afford to buy the land.
Amber, a cheerful sixth grader, attended the historic Sunset school last year by herself and most of this year as well, though she had a first grader for company for a few weeks. Once that first grader left, though, it was just Amber again and her teacher, Toni Hatten. 
''The hardest part is getting through the day without feeling too lonely,'' said Amber, as she drew on a computerized white board.
One way of fighting the loneliness is with Baylee, a 3-month-old husky mix that recently became the new school dog.
The one-on-one situation is challenging for both teacher and student, says Ms. Hatten, 45, who began teaching this year. There is little escape for either: no grouping students to work together on their own for a while, and the student cannot disappear for a while, while the teacher works with someone else. It is Amber and Toni together all day long.
''You're their lunch buddy, their P.E. buddy, their recess buddy,'' Ms. Hatten said. ''You're their everything.''
The school is isolated as well as small. The town of Sunset was once the center of industrial-scale logging for copper mines at Butte, but that is long gone and now the economy is ranching and the region is known as Greenough. The town that once stood here is gone, the general store and post office vanished and only the school remains and an outdoor bank of mailboxes. The nearest town is about 20 miles away. The city of Missoula is 35 miles to the west.
The isolation is offset somewhat by the beauty of the landscape. Sunset sits in a valley surrounded by rolling hills and mountains, with a blanket of towering ponderosa pines. The Blackfoot River, a famous fishing stream, flows near here.
Sunset is the smallest one-room school in Montana (a second room was added, but it is only used for physical education and storage), which has 62 of them, ranging from one to 18 students. It is the only one-room school in the state with a lone student, though there are some with two or three. About 20 small schools have closed in the last decade in the state.
Claudette Morton, who retired in 2010 as director of the Montana Small School Association, and still researches rural education, thinks that is a loss. ''Teachers in rural schools don't make a lot of money,'' she said, ''It is a labor of love in many respects. The teachers love the independence and there aren't a lot of rules.''
There are advantages for the student, as well.
''If she doesn't get something, we'll work on it longer,'' Ms. Hatten said. ''That's the beauty of one student.''
Amber went here in kindergarten, then attended a school eight miles away. But she moved back here in the fifth grade. ''She dealt with a lot of bullying and the school wouldn't address it,'' said her mother, Wendy Leetch.
Not everyone thinks keeping a school open with one student makes sense. ''It ruffles some feathers with other districts who say it's a lot of money for one student,'' said Darlene Troutwine, the Sunset district clerk. But while the Sunset district seems to be teetering on the edge of disappearing, perhaps when Amber decamps for high school in two years, it is not the typical rural community in decline. The school sits on land owned by the Resort at Paws Up, a guest ranch that features high-end accommodations. Last summer Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford were at the Paws Up promoting their film ''Cowboys and Aliens.'' An owner of the ranch, Nadine Lipson, is on the Sunset school board.
Built in 1917, the Sunset school is historic on the outside, with antique playground equipment and a bell in a tower that does not ring. It is not an old-fashioned schoolhouse on the inside. Instead of dusty chalkboards and pull-down maps there is a Smartboard, a kind of electronic white board, that is synchronized with Ms. Hatten's computer, and there are three computers.
Theater productions at Sunset pose some problems. ''We have to take multiple parts,'' Ms. Hatten said. For the Christmas pageant they drove 22 miles each day for a month to the Ovando school. Amber also played volleyball at another school, Seeley Lake Elementary, 21 miles away.
As recently as 2001 there were 20 students at the school, but escalating land prices here mean young ranch families must get out of the business or ranch elsewhere. Ms. Hatten has hopes of more students in the future -- at least two, or perhaps three -- to make things more interesting and to be sure the sun doesn't set on the little school. ''The Ovando School has 11 and feels like a family,'' Ms. Hatten said. ''The older kids help the younger kids and they all play together.''
School is four days a week here, from eight until four. When the day ends there is no yellow school bus to take Amber home. She lives off the grid with her parents and brother, near the high-altitude ghost town of Garnet, once a thriving mining town. Her mother is a tour guide there in the summer. The only access is by snowmobile.
On a recent school day, Amber and her mother donned helmets to make the five-mile trip through the mountains to their home, with Amber on the back of Mrs. Leetch's vehicle. Mrs. Leetch recently got a new snowmobile with heated hand rests, which makes a big difference on the trip, especially when temperatures drop to below zero.
They waved as they departed, then roared off, leaving a cloud of blue exhaust hanging in the air.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amber Leetch, 11, returning to the one-room school where she is the only student after recess. Left, she reacted to a question from her teacher, Toni Hatten, while identifying rocks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE SHERWOOD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Greenough is isolated but sits amid a scenic landscape. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MOUNTAINS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); BUDGETS (70%); COPPER MINING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1340 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
LEADER OF HAMAS VISITS
JORDAN TO MEND FENCES
Khaled Meshal, the leader of Hamas, made a rare and pointedly low-key visit to Jordan, days after Hamas officials signaled that he had effectively abandoned the group's base in Damascus, the Syrian capital. Page A4
EGYPT RULERS SEEK ADVICE 
Egypt's military rulers have asked a panel of advisers for suggestions about handing over power to civilians earlier than the scheduled deadline at the end of June, state news media reported. Page A6
SUDAN REBELS HOLD CHINESE
More than two dozen Chinese road workers have been captured by a Sudanese rebel group, officials said, underlining the risks for China in sending ever-greater numbers of its workers into some of the world's most turbulent countries. Page A6
IRAN EYES VISIT WITH HOPE
Iran's foreign minister expressed optimism that a visit by United Nations nuclear inspectors would produce an understanding, despite world concerns that Iran is trying to build nuclear weapons. Page A6
KAZAKHSTAN MAKES OFFERING
Prime Minister Karim Q. Massimov of Kazakhstan said the nation will invest $300 million in the town of Zhanaozen where police officers killed 17 strikers in December. Page A6
CONVICTION FOR CANAL KILLING
An Afghan immigrant in Canada, one of his wives and a son were found guilty of murdering the other wife and three daughters, whose bodies were found in a car in a canal. He said that they had disgraced his family. Page A8
National
OCCUPY OAKLAND PROTEST
LEADS TO HUNDREDS ARRESTED
About 400 people were arrested and three officers injured after a march to take over a vacant building by members of the Occupy movement in Oakland, Calif., turned into a confrontation with the police. Page A11
AN UNUSUAL SCHOOL PROBLEM
At a time when many schools are concerned about overcrowded classrooms, the Sunset school in Greenough, Mont., has a different problem: keeping its lone student at her desk so it can remain open. Page A11
G.O.P. ADS GET PICKY
Campaigns and ''super PACs'' can single out potential voters with a high degree of specificity thanks to research about the voting habits among viewers of almost every television show. Page A12
New York
ALBANY BILL SEEKS TO RAISE
MINIMUM WAGE TO $8.50
Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, plans to introduce a bill to raise the state's minimum wage to $8.50 an hour, a 17 percent increase. The bill also calls for the minimum wage to be adjusted each year for inflation. Page A15
Obituaries
JONATHAN K. IDEMA, 55
A convicted con man, he gained notoriety in post-invasion Afghanistan as a swaggering hunter of terrorists, then ignominy when he was imprisoned for taking Afghans hostage and torturing them. Page A21
Business
IN FRAUD CASE, OLD FRIENDS
BECOME ENEMIES IN COURT
R. Allen Stanford and James M. Davis were trusted friends who built an international financial empire together. But they are scheduled to confront each other in federal court as indicted swindlers. Page B1
WITNESS IN FRAUD TRIAL
Ajit Jain, a top lieutenant at Berkshire Hathaway, is on the short list of candidates to succeed Warren E. Buffett, Berkshire's chief executive. He is also a potential witness in an insider-trading trial. Page B1
FACEBOOK ELECTION APP
A new application for Facebook users is intended to encourage those who are not as engaged to talk about the election issues that are most important to them. Page B4
EXXON TO SELL SUBSIDIARY
Exxon Mobil said that it had agreed to sell its Japanese subsidiary to a major refinery operator in Japan for about $3.9 billion, as part of a revamping of the oil giant's operations. Page B7
Sports
KIWANUKA GOES HOME,
BUT HIS HEART IS FAR AWAY
Giants linebacker Mathias Kiwanuka is returning to his hometown, Indianapolis, for the Super Bowl. But he is drawn to Uganda, where his grandfather was a historic figure. Page D1
CREATIVELY DEFYING GRAVITY
The sport of wall trampoline is part gymnastics and part parkour and its rule book that is still being written, but its inventors have big plans for it. Page D1
Arts
FINDING SOME COMFORT
IN THE COMPANY OF MURDER
Ben Brantley did not go to St. Martin's Theater in London to be frightened or even stimulated. He was there for comfort and a chance to pay his respects to Agatha Christie, whose play ''The Mousetrap'' was just about to begin its 24,655th performance. Page C1
OPERA AT THE ROSE THEATER
Opera Lafayette, the Washington group, lovingly resurrected and performed ''Le Roi et le Fermier,'' which Marie Antoinette and her courtiers performed at Versailles in 1780, at the Rose Theater at Jazz at Lincoln Center. Page C2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TERRORISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); STRIKES (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (66%); LEGISLATION (65%); MURDER (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SYRIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1341 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: The Popularity Of Statistics

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
''Most of my life I went to parties and heard a little groan when people heard what I did,'' says Robert Tibshirani, a statistics professor at Stanford University. ''Now they're all excited to meet me.''
It's not because of a new after-shave. Arcane statistical analysis, the business of making sense of our growing data mountains, has become high tech's hottest calling. There are billions of bytes generated daily, not just from the Internet but also from sciences like genetics and astronomy. Companies like Google and Facebook, as well as product marketers, risk analysts, spies, natural philosophers and gamblers are all scouring the info, desperate to find a new angle on what makes us and the world tick. Computing has become cheap and available enough to process any number of formulas. 
What no one has are enough people to figure out the valuable patterns that lie inside the data.
At North Carolina State, an advanced analytics program lasting 10 months has, since its founding in 2006, placed over 90 percent of its students annually. The average graduate's starting salary for an entry-level job is $73,000. Its current class of 40 students had 185 applicants, and next year's applications are already twice that. In 2009, Harvard awarded four undergraduate degrees in statistics. Two graduates went into finance, one to political polling and one became a substitute teacher. There were nine graduates in 2010, 13 last year. They headed into Google, biosciences and Wall Street, as well as Stanford's literature department. Globally, LinkedIn recently found that from 2009 to 2011 the new jobs with titles related to ''analytics'' and ''data science'' grew by 53 percent.
Stanford's Department of Statistics, both renowned and near so many Internet and bioscience companies, is at the center of the boom. It received 800 resumes for next year's 60 graduate positions, twice the number of applications it had three years ago. Graduates head to business school at a starting salary of $150,000 or more, or to Facebook for about $130,000.
''We won't look at many people without a 3.8 average, and for the advanced program, an advanced math graduate exam in the top 10 percent,'' says Trevor Hastie, the professor overseeing admissions. Statistics, he notes, dictate that many in the top 10 percent have placed equally, with perfect scores.
Mr. Hastie and Mr. Tibshirani are the authors of ''The Elements of Statistical Learning,'' a top textbook in the field. Their star course, called ''Modern Applied Statistics: Learning,'' started a decade ago with 30 students. Its current enrollment just closed off at 190. ''We try to give them long and difficult homework assignments,'' Mr. Hastie says. ''Nothing works.''
(F.Y.I., most of us would fail the course. This week's homework involves building a sequence of nearest neighbor classifiers around its tuning parameter K, choosing K using prediction accuracy estimated through tenfold cross validation. In other words, how do you pick the best way to estimate whether an e-mail is spam?)
The two men also teach a two-day course for businesspeople called ''Statistical Learning and Data Mining'' that costs $1,450 and attracts a broad range of data-laden people. ''We had two guys from Hong Kong who taught a course in horse race prediction,'' Mr. Tibshirani says. ''One of them came back and told us they're making $10 million a year by modeling the last-minute betting.''
Both men also consult for a number of well-known and emerging companies, but they worry about how many of their students will be drawn away from academics to the private sector. The boom in scientific data may be greatest in academia, particularly genetics.
''The data are going to be very wide, with lots of genes, and deep, with billions of variations, once we're able to decode individual human genes for $1,000,'' Mr. Tibshirani says. ''It will call for new statistical techniques, and new kinds of computation.'' His own recent work, on the ability to spot false discoveries, is aimed at the genetics problem. Another major life's work, his son, just graduated from Stanford and is teaching statistics at Carnegie Mellon.
About half of the Stanford stat professors have joint appointments with other departments, including economics, human biology and environmental science. ''Statistics is unusual,'' Mr. Hastie notes. ''It's a service field to other disciplines. It doesn't rely on its own work. It needs others.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (75%); HOMEWORK (71%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RANKINGS (69%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (65%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1342 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LIFE OUT THERE THE COST OF DREAMS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Search for Aliens Is On Again, but Next Quest Is Finding Money

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
HAT CREEK, Calif. -- E.T. might be phoning, but do we care enough to take the call?
Operating on money and equipment scrounged from the public and from Silicon Valley millionaires, and on the stubborn strength of their own dreams, a band of astronomers recently restarted one of the iconic quests of modern science, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence -- SETI, for short -- which had been interrupted last year by a lack of financing.
Early in December, a brace of 42 radio telescopes, known as the Allen Telescope Array, nestled here in the shadow of Lassen Peak, came to life and resumed hopping from star to star in the constellation Cygnus, listening for radio broadcasts from alien civilizations. The lines are now open, but with lingering financial problems, how long they will remain that way is anybody's guess.
These should be boom times for those seeking out aliens, or at least their radio proxy. 
Astronomers now know that the galaxy is teeming with at least as many planets -- the presumed sites of life -- as stars. Advanced life and technology might be rare in the cosmos, said Geoffrey W. Marcy, the Watson and Marilyn Alberts in the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence professor at the University of California, Berkeley, ''but surely they are out there, because the number of Earthlike planets in the Milky Way galaxy is simply too great.''
A simple ''howdy,'' a squeal or squawk, or an incomprehensible stream of numbers captured by one of the antennas here at the University of California's Hat Creek Radio Observatory would be enough to end our cosmic loneliness and change history, not to mention science. It would answer one of the most profound questions humans ask: Are we alone in the universe?
Despite decades of space probes and billions of NASA dollars looking for life out there, there is still only one example of life in the universe: the DNA-based web of biology on Earth. ''In this field,'' said Jill Tarter, an astronomer at the SETI Institute in Mountain View, Calif., the ''number two is the all-important number. We count one, two, infinity. We're all looking for number two.''
But the story of SETI is the story of a dream deferred by politics, a lack of money and the technological challenges of searching what astronomers call ''the cosmic haystack'': 100 billion stars in the galaxy and 9 billion narrow-band radio channels on which aliens, if they exist, might be trying to hail us.
Politics and the recession have crimped astronomers' budgets and left the institute's scientists with a kind of siege mentality. Last spring, the University of California ran out of money to run the Hat Creek observatory, forcing the Allen telescopes into hibernation. In order to continue the search, astronomers are negotiating a deal to share the telescopes with the Air Force, which wants to use them to track satellites and space junk.
No federal funds have been spent searching for radio signals from extraterrestrials since 1993.
A recent visit to the SETI Institute's Mountain View offices found many of the cubicles empty and the corridors eerily quiet. Last summer, as the Allen telescopes slumbered, weeds grew around them.
998,000 Stars to Go
The story begins with a young radio astronomer named Frank Drake, who pointed an antenna from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Green Bank, W.Va., at a pair of stars in 1960, wondering if he could make contact with anything or anyone.
All he got was static, but the hook was set.
In 1971, NASA held a workshop led by Barney Oliver, the research chief of Hewlett-Packard, that concluded the best way to find extraterrestrials was with a $10 billion array of giant radio telescopes called Cyclops. The price tag -- as well as the subject -- set off alarm bells that still reverberate.
In 1978, Senator William Proxmire of Wisconsin, an outspoken critic of what he considered wasteful government spending, awarded one of his infamous ''Golden Fleece'' awards to the hunt for aliens, and in 1993, a NASA-sponsored survey for signals from 1,000 nearby stars was canceled by Congress. With the help of friends like Dr. Oliver in the Silicon Valley, Dr. Tarter and her colleagues took the search private.
As the director of SETI research at the institute, Dr. Tarter, 67, has become the public face of the cause, and she was consulted by the actress Jodie Foster about her portrayal of Ellie Arroway, a radio astronomer who finds a signal, in the movie ''Contact.''
Dr. Tarter was recruited in 1976, when, as a postdoctorate student at Berkeley, she read the Cyclops report, a rite of passage for most alien-oriented astronomers.
''You didn't have to ask a priest or philosopher about life in the universe,'' Dr. Tarter said. But she realized she was in the first generation who could conduct experiments about it. A half-century and roughly 2,000 stars later, humanity is still officially alone.
Dr. Drake is undaunted, noting that there are 100 billion suitable stars in the galaxy. His personal estimate, based on an equation he invented in 1961, is that there are 10,000 technological civilizations in the galaxy, one per million stars.
''I've known all along we have to look at a million stars,'' he said. Now a cherubic 81, Dr. Drake is a professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and a former chairman of the SETI Institute.
The Allen Array, which was designed to find Dr. Drake his million stars, is named after Paul G. Allen, the Microsoft founder and philanthropist, who put up $25 million to get the project going. Jointly owned and operated by the University of California, Berkeley, and the SETI Institute, it was to consist of 350 antennas, 20 feet in diameter, that were to be mass-produced like satellite dishes.
The full array would be able to map a swath of sky several full moons in diameter in only 10 minutes, or the whole sky in a night -- of great interest to astronomers and, as it turned out, to the military.
But Mr. Allen's contribution was only enough to build 42 antennas, which started operating in 2007. The astronomers say that another $55 million would complete the array, but there have been no volunteers yet.
The project got a lift in 2009 when Dr. Tarter won a $100,000 prize and ''One Wish to Change the World'' at the TED conference -- short for Technology, Entertainment and Design -- in Long Beach, Calif. Her talk there began, ''The story of humans is the story of ideas.'' It elicited a donation of valuable equipment from Dell and Intel.
The project got another lift -- mainly psychological -- last year when NASA, whose Kepler spacecraft is beaming back news about the patch of Cygnus that it surveys, published its first list of 1,235 exoplanet candidates.
As Dr. Tarter told a conference of exoplanet hunters recently: ''We're not just pointing at stars. We're pointing where you have shown us there are planets, and perhaps technologists.''
But the recession and the cutbacks that followed wiped out the university's funds to run the Hat Creek observatory just as it was getting started on a survey of Kepler's planets. The Allen telescopes went quiet, and the astronomical staff left.
An appeal for financing went out on the institute's Web site, which eventually brought in about $220,000 -- roughly two months' worth of operating expenses. Meanwhile, the Air Force was interested in using the radio telescopes.
The array, Dr. Tarter explained, turns out to be adept at tracking satellites and space junk, a possibility first identified as early as 2004 in a memo by her husband, William Welch, a radio astronomer at the University of California, Berkeley, who is known as Jack. ''There's a long tradition of radio astronomy and the military scratching each other's backs,'' Dr. Tarter said.
Under terms of an agreement still being negotiated, the Air Force will pay for a share of the operations at Hat Creek, which costs about $1.5 million (plus another $1 million a year to pay the astronomers). The money raised so far will buy a few months at best.
Welcome All Species
The astronomers started bringing their equipment back to Hat Creek in September. The place looked neglected.
''Nobody had cut the weeds,'' Dr. Tarter said. ''It looked so sad.''
Early in December, when Dr. Tarter and Dr. Welch returned to Hat Creek in Dr. Welch's Cessna with a reporter in tow, the weeds had been cut and the antennas were majestically turning to a music only they could hear. Scattered across a meadow, they resembled the forest of satellite dishes you see outside events like the Super Bowl.
Nearby in an unassuming ranch house, racks of electronics and computers hummed with life. The doormat read, ''Welcome All Species.''
Inside, Dr. Tarter plopped down in front of a computer and watched with a suspicious eye as the display popped with a row of numbers indicating that a narrow-band signal -- the signature of an artificial source -- had been detected.
She takes great pride in the fact that she and her colleagues have never published a false alarm, and she nodded approvingly as the telescope and computers went through the process of eliminating the new signal from consideration. The Earth's motion will cause the frequency of a signal from the sky to drift in frequency, for example. The checklist has grown over the years, she said.
Within a few minutes they were back scanning a new part of the spectrum. The computers will check a persistent signal five times, moving the telescope on and off it, before calling someone to discuss it -- ''whoever is on the desk,'' Dr. Tarter said.
The next step would be to call the director of an observatory to the west (since that is the way the sky rotates) and ask for continued observation.
''We've gotten six hours into it four times,'' Dr. Tarter said. One dramatic moment was in 1998, when Dr. Tarter and her colleagues were working at the observatory in Green Bank, W.Va., and had a signal they could just not eliminate.
Finally they figured out that they were actually receiving transmissions from the European SOHO satellite.
''We went to bed,'' Dr. Tarter said.
''It was a real adrenaline pumping time,'' she added. ''I can't imagine what the real deal will be.''
Life Out There: Articles in this series are examining the search for new forms of life in the universe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Welch is the ex-director of the Hat Creek Radio Observatory, home to the Allen Array. (A1)
The telescopes in the Allen Array in Hat Creek, Calif., came back to life in December, scanning for signals in the constellation Cygnus. Only 42 of the planned 350 antennas have been built. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jill Tarter of the SETI Institute and Bill Borucki of NASA with a graphic showing a planet that had been discovered by the Kepler spacecraft. Top, the Allen Telescope Array. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES
 RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SPACE EXPLORATION (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); SPACECRAFT (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MILKY WAY GALAXY (79%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1343 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Bridge's Partial Fencing Points to a Bigger Divide

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
The footbridge is, at first glance, unremarkable. It connects two sections of the Ingersoll public housing project in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, and its dull red walkway matches the brick apartment houses on either side. Underneath it are the roadway and bike lanes of Navy Street.
Yet beyond the rusty chain links is a newly installed section of eight-foot-high fencing. The shiny metal reflects a fresh flash point in a swiftly changing neighborhood where luxury apartment towers have risen in the last few years. 
Last August, Stephen Arthur was riding home to North Park Slope on his bicycle when he was struck in the head by a brick thrown from one of the two ramps onto the footbridge. Though he was wearing a helmet, he crashed, tearing a ligament in his wrist and cutting his face.
Mr. Arthur, a 44-year-old computer programmer, was not the first cyclist on the eight-year-old Navy Street bike path to be hit by objects that youths -- for years, residents say -- have been throwing from the ramps. But he was the first one to be injured seriously enough to press for something to be done.
In response, the city Transportation Department, with support from local officials, including Community Board 2's district manager, Robert Perris, and Councilwoman Letitia James, decided to erect additional fencing along all 96 feet of the bridge, and all 64 feet of its ramps. The new fence is curved but open at the top, hanging 18 inches over the walkway, similar to pedestrian passages on the Manhattan and Roosevelt Island Bridges.
The work should be completed this week, according to Transportation Department officials. Already, however, reactions have been wildly divergent, echoing tensions between old and new residents.
''That's caging us,'' said Sharvelle Vinson, 44, who grew up in the Ingersoll Houses. ''It's going too far.''
Valery Jean, the executive director of Families United for Racial and Economic Equality, a community group, said the new fence was a stigmatizing symbol. ''On one side of the cage are the people it is protecting, and the other side are the villains,'' she said.
Ms. James expressed concern about the scope of the project. ''Don't extend the fence to the point where you send the message to residents that you are not welcome and dangerous,'' she said.
Mr. Perris said he recognized ''that the solution isn't perfect, but I looked at it from a public safety standpoint.'' If a better remedy were proposed, he said, he would certainly pursue it.
Mr. Arthur said extending the fence to the ramps would protect vulnerable cyclists. ''It's a road safety hazard for anyone, any background,'' he said, adding that the issue was not about cyclists versus residents. ''This is about senseless violence by youth.''
''If I wasn't wearing my helmet, forget about it, I would be like Marion Hedges,'' he said, referring to a Manhattan real estate broker who was severely injured in October when she was struck by a shopping cart that had been dropped from a walkway of an East Harlem mall.
No one has been arrested in the assault on Mr. Arthur, and there have not been any similar complaints since, the police said. Officers from the 88th Precinct have been posted at the ramps since August, according to Deputy Inspector Kim Royster, a police spokeswoman.
But the police presence, and the city's swift response, have caused grumbling among some residents.
Ms. Vinson said people had complained to the police about safety issues in the past. ''But now you have one person who comes forward and goes ballistic,'' she said.
Ed Brown, 47, the president of the Ingersoll Houses tenants' association, said the fence was a sign of a deeper issue: ''The disconnect between newer residents and longtime residents and people coming in the area via the bike lanes.''
''There's this image of Downtown Brooklyn turning into this great utopia; we're building diversity,'' Mr. Brown said. ''But that fence, that right there is detrimental to the whole mission.''
Several Ingersoll tenants said they had heard, wrongly, that the fence would completely cover the footbridge, or that it might be closed entirely.
''At first I heard it was going to be bigger, but I don't think there's anything wrong with this,'' said Ronald Randolph, 58, as he walked across the bridge on Friday.
Tracy Jones, 35, said: ''They needed to put it up. Kids have been throwing things off the bridge since we were young.''
Commenters to articles about what happened to Mr. Arthur seemed to indicate that his experience was not isolated. Yana Walton said children threw small rocks at her about a year and a half ago; she was rattled, but uninjured.
''I glance up now and see if anyone is on the bridge,'' said Ms. Walton, 29, of Prospect Heights. She thought that beyond building a fence, there should be a community discussion. ''Maybe the parents don't know what's going on,'' she said.
Ms. Vinson, a mother of five boys, said that engaging restless children was what was needed. ''That's what they need around here, more activities for kids,'' she said. ''That's the problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After Stephen Arthur, above, was hit by a brick, the city partly enclosed the footbridge linking the Ingersoll Houses in Fort Greene. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CYCLING (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); HEAD INJURIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1344 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: ABB Is Said to Be Close to Acquiring a U.S. Maker of Electrical Components

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
ABB of Sweden is near a deal to buy Thomas & Betts, an American maker of electrical connectors, for about $4 billion in cash, a person briefed on the matter said on Sunday. 
The deal could be announced as soon as Monday, this person said, cautioning that talks were ongoing and may still fall apart.
Shares of Thomas & Betts closed on Friday at $57.95, giving it a market value of about $3 billion. They have risen 22.6 percent over the past 12 months.
Should the two sides finalize a deal, a takeover of Thomas & Betts would be one of the largest friendly transactions announced so far this year. Bankers and lawyers work to seize upon what they say are improving conditions for deal-making after what they described as a disappointing 2011 for mergers, hurt by the European fiscal crisis.
Among the largest deals announced so far in 2012 are a Japanese consortium's $7.3 billion purchase of the Royal Bank of Scotland's aircraft leasing unit and Eastman Chemical's $3.4 billion takeover of fellow chemical maker Solutia.
ABB, one of Sweden's biggest industrial companies, has made little secret of its desire to grow through ''bolt-on'' acquisitions that supplement existing businesses. Joseph M. Hogan, the company's American chief executive and a former General Electric executive, has said that one of ABB's growth areas will likely be in the United States, which he described in 2010 as on the verge of ''re-industrializing.''
Such a strategy would also give ABB a hedge against prolonged weak demand in Europe.
The company's last major deal was in November 2010, when it purchased another American company, Baldor Electric, for about $3.1 billion.
In Thomas & Betts, ABB will acquire a big maker of industrial electrical components. Thomas & Betts was founded in 1898 and grew as the use of electricity spread across the country. Among its customers are power utilities and construction companies.
The company, which is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on Monday, earned $145.6 million in profit for 2010, atop $2 billion in revenue.
Analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a research report on Sunday that the deal makes sense for Thomas & Betts, given that the company lacks a clear succession plan for its current chief executive, Dominic J. Pileggi. It also appears to coincide with improving economic conditions in the United States.
''The timing for any such transaction is near perfect into what look like the beginnings of strong upturns in U.S. utility and construction markets,'' the analysts wrote.
Based in Memphis, Tenn., the company has 8,750 employees.
Representatives for ABB and Thomas & Betts could not be reached for comment.
News of the talks was first reported by The Wall Street Journal online.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICAL COMPONENT & DEVICE MFG (90%); WIRING DEVICE MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); SUCCESSION PLANS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CHEMICALS MFG (67%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (67%); CHEMICALS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAWYERS (54%)

COMPANY: ABB AB (94%); THOMAS & BETTS CORP (91%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); BALDOR ELECTRIC CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: DOMINIC J PILEGGI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1345 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Mobil Agrees to Sell Unit in Japan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Exxon Mobil said on Sunday that it had agreed to sell its Japanese subsidiary to TonenGeneral Sekiyu, a major refinery operator in Japan, for about $3.9 billion, as part of a revamping of the oil giant's operations in that country. 
Under the terms of the deal, Exxon will sell a 99 percent stake in the subsidiary, ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha, to TonenGeneral. Exxon will in turn shed most of its controlling stake in TonenGeneral, keeping a 22 percent interest in the Japanese refiner.
The deal represents the latest move by Exxon and other major oil companies to shift their focus from refining operations to higher-margin businesses like exploration and development of new sources of oil and natural gas.
There is surplus refinery capacity in many parts of the world in large part because of the economic downturn, which has sliced into demand for gasoline and other petroleum products.
Meanwhile, high oil prices and relatively low gasoline prices have squeezed refinery profits. Royal Dutch Shell and BP are selling refineries in Western Europe and the United States. Several refiners have closed a handful of refineries on the East Coast in recent years, and a few are up for sale. ConocoPhillips plans to separate its refinery operations from oil and gas exploration and production.
TonenGeneral will also streamline its operations in light of what it says is declining demand for oil in Japan, which has put pressure on the company's profit margins.
''The company will be able to more effectively execute locally driven investments and other business decisions that will help the company adapt to the challenging operating environment,'' TonenGeneral said in a statement.
TonenGeneral will continue to have exclusive use of Exxon brands like Esso, Mobil and General in Japan. Exxon will also provide technology and supply services to TonenGeneral.
The Japanese refiner plans to finance the transaction with some of its 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in cash on hand and with bank debt. The deal is expected to close by June 1.
TonenGeneral was advised by Nomura Securities and the law firm Nishimura & Asahi.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); TONENGENERAL SEKIYU KK (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); COP (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); 5012 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1346 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: A Studio's Real-Life Drama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Movie fans are fretting over where to peg ''War Horse'' and ''The Help'' in the Oscar pool.
But Hollywood is pondering something else: What becomes of DreamWorks Studios, the boutique studio behind those films?
The 10 nominations between the two movies, including best picture for each, have made DreamWorks a strong contender for honors on Oscar night, Feb. 26. The two dramas already lead the best picture pack at the box office, with ''War Horse'' passing ''Moneyball'' over the weekend, according to estimates, to become the second most popular nominee, behind ''The Help,'' which had domestic ticket sales of about $170 million.
Behind the scenes, however, executives at DreamWorks and its partners are quietly opening discussions that in the next few months will determine its future and answer a broader question about the state of Hollywood: Can a faltering film industry sustain a company that insists on making ambitious, Oscar-caliber, studio-size films -- but without the deep pockets of a Viacom, which owns Paramount Pictures, or a News Corporation, the parent of 20th Century Fox? 
Created four years ago by Steven Spielberg and Stacey Snider in partnership with Reliance Entertainment, an Indian financier, DreamWorks was a successor to DreamWorks SKG. The earlier DreamWorks was an independent studio that was created amid much fanfare by three Hollywood heavyweights -- Mr. Spielberg, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen. Eventually they sold it to Paramount and briefly worked with the studio in what became a failed marriage.
(The new DreamWorks is unrelated to the publicly held DreamWorks Animation.)
Over the years, small, independently financed companies -- some with their own distribution mechanisms, others, like DreamWorks, without -- have generated hits, only to disappear or be merged into larger corporations. Miramax Films was acquired by Disney after releasing ''The Crying Game,'' a box-office success and best picture nominee; Disney has since sold the unit. Summit Entertainment was recently sold to Lions Gate; Summit investors saw the end of their blockbuster ''Twilight'' series as a prime moment to cash out.
For smaller film companies, the hunger for capital is a perennial problem. Making a studio-level film can require an immediate investment of $100 million or more. But even the hits pay back their investors slowly, over a cycle that may last as long as 10 years, as movies are sold successively in theaters, on DVDs, to Internet streaming and cable television services and so on.
DreamWorks is now in the ticklish position of having nearly exhausted its first round of financing, which included $325 million in equity from Reliance, and a matching $325 million in lending from banks led by J.P. Morgan Securities. An original plan called for more from each, but the struggles of the national economy brought the investment up short. Now, DreamWorks is left to line up new financing at a time when movies are struggling.
Attendance at North American movie theaters hit a 16-year low last year. DVD sales continue to drop. Although some emerging overseas markets are picking up steam, Europe and other important sales territories are uneven. And there are no indications of an immediate reversal of the trends.
So the question becomes whether, or to what extent, Reliance and allied lenders are prepared to back another round. Executives from Reliance and DreamWorks declined to discuss their plans. Over the weekend, however, they said in a joint e-mail that they remained pleased with their partnership.
''Our relationship has always been structured to allow us to adapt to changing market conditions and to create the best chance for success for all parties involved,'' they said in a statement.
Speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid conflict with executives of the companies, people familiar with the situation said talks about further financing will probably open in the next few weeks. The outcome will determine whether DreamWorks, which distributes its films under a long-term deal with Walt Disney Studios but has also worked with other partners, will be able to maintain its ambitious course.
If not, it might have to proceed with a smaller slate of films or potentially less impressive projects, these people say. Whether DreamWorks would even be interested in making lower-risk, lower-profile movies, however, is far from clear.
DreamWorks began making movies in 2009 after raising only half of the hoped-for financing from Reliance and lenders. Despite a top-shelf pedigree -- Mr. Spielberg is by far the best-selling movie director in history, and Ms. Snider oversaw hits like ''Bruce Almighty'' and ''The Bourne Identity'' while chairwoman of Universal Pictures -- the company scratched for more than a year to assemble backing during a worldwide financial collapse in which the number of banks engaged in entertainment lending fell from more than 40 to fewer than a dozen.
During that hunt for funds, Reliance and Anil Ambani, the chairman of its parent, stood by a commitment to invest in the venture, even as the terms of the involvement became less favorable. But Reliance put up less than a contemplated $550 million in equity, as it became impossible to raise $750 million in loans to go with it. The hoped-for $1.3 billion total would have seen DreamWorks through this Oscar season and perhaps into 2014.
Instead, the company's resources are nearly played out, even while the potential from its first round of films remains uncertain. ''The Help,'' ''War Horse,'' and, by a whisker, ''Real Steel,'' appear poised to make money, once their full run is complete. But ''Cowboys & Aliens'' (released by Universal), ''I Am Number Four,'' ''Fright Night'' and ''Dinner for Schmucks'' (released by Paramount) were soft at the box office, and either lost money or made too little to create a strong portfolio for investors.
Mr. Spielberg is currently finishing ''Lincoln,'' partly financed by DreamWorks, with additional backing from Participant Media and Fox. Fox is co-financing another Spielberg film, the sci-fi thriller ''Robopocalypse,'' which is set for release in July 2013 by Disney in the United States and by Fox abroad. (Mr. Spielberg's many television projects are financed separately from DreamWorks Studios.)
Despite rumblings in Hollywood of friction between DreamWorks and Disney, their distribution partnership is solid, with years yet to run. ''DreamWorks provides a diverse slate that's a key part of our release strategy, and we're pleased with the results so far,'' Rich Ross, Disney's movie chairman, said in an e-mail.
And DreamWorks has co-financing avenues to pursue. Fox, which has previously worked closely with Mr. Spielberg, appears ready to continue supporting individual projects. Participant, meanwhile, is eager to help pay for issues-oriented films like ''The Help,'' which it backed in part. ''We plan to continue to work together on at least one film per year,'' James G. Berk, Participant's chief executive, said in an e-mail.
But the pace of film production and development has already slowed for DreamWorks and its 80 employees, who work from a complex on the Universal Studios lot. Instead, Mr. Spielberg, Ms. Snider and their lawyer, Skip Brittenham, are preparing for talks with Mr. Ambani and his lieutenant Amitabh Jhunjhunwala. Reliance must now decide whether to double down on an initial investment that was never large enough to match the ambitions of the company it supports.
There is no immediate deadline to hurry the discussions, according to people who have been briefed on DreamWorks and its underpinnings. But the company's Reliance backers are almost certain to be in Los Angeles for some glamour and glory at the Oscars next month.
And the table talk will most likely be more about money than movies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''War Horse,'' above, and ''The Help,'' with Viola Davis, left, and Octavia Spencer, both movies from DreamWorks that were nominated for multiple Academy Awards. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID APPLEBY/DREAMWORKS PICTURES AND WALT DISNEY PICTURES
DALE ROBINETTE/DREAMWORKS PICTURES)
 Steven Spielberg and Stacey Snider at a premiere last summer. They worked together to form DreamWorks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ANIMATION (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); STREAMING MEDIA (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); EQUITY FINANCING (68%); FINANCING ROUNDS (65%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (63%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (85%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); NEWS CORP (68%); VIACOM INC (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (NASDAQ) (68%); NWS (ASX) (68%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (78%); DAVID GEFFEN (58%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%); STACEY SNIDER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1347 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Austerity Debacle

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last week the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, a British think tank, released a startling chart comparing the current slump with past recessions and recoveries. It turns out that by one important measure -- changes in real G.D.P. since the recession began -- Britain is doing worse this time than it did during the Great Depression. Four years into the Depression, British G.D.P. had regained its previous peak; four years after the Great Recession began, Britain is nowhere close to regaining its lost ground.
Nor is Britain unique. Italy is also doing worse than it did in the 1930s -- and with Spain clearly headed for a double-dip recession, that makes three of Europe's big five economies members of the worse-than club. Yes, there are some caveats and complications. But this nonetheless represents a stunning failure of policy. 
And it's a failure, in particular, of the austerity doctrine that has dominated elite policy discussion both in Europe and, to a large extent, in the United States for the past two years.
O.K., about those caveats: On one side, British unemployment was much higher in the 1930s than it is now, because the British economy was depressed -- mainly thanks to an ill-advised return to the gold standard -- even before the Depression struck. On the other side, Britain had a notably mild Depression compared with the United States.
Even so, surpassing the track record of the 1930s shouldn't be a tough challenge. Haven't we learned a lot about economic management over the last 80 years? Yes, we have -- but in Britain and elsewhere, the policy elite decided to throw that hard-won knowledge out the window, and rely on ideologically convenient wishful thinking instead.
Britain, in particular, was supposed to be a showcase for ''expansionary austerity,'' the notion that instead of increasing government spending to fight recessions, you should slash spending instead -- and that this would lead to faster economic growth. ''Those who argue that dealing with our deficit and promoting growth are somehow alternatives are wrong,'' declared David Cameron, Britain's prime minister. ''You cannot put off the first in order to promote the second.''
How could the economy thrive when unemployment was already high, and government policies were directly reducing employment even further? Confidence! ''I firmly believe,'' declared Jean-Claude Trichet -- at the time the president of the European Central Bank, and a strong advocate of the doctrine of expansionary austerity -- ''that in the current circumstances confidence-inspiring policies will foster and not hamper economic recovery, because confidence is the key factor today.''
Such invocations of the confidence fairy were never plausible; researchers at the International Monetary Fund and elsewhere quickly debunked the supposed evidence that spending cuts create jobs. Yet influential people on both sides of the Atlantic heaped praise on the prophets of austerity, Mr. Cameron in particular, because the doctrine of expansionary austerity dovetailed with their ideological agendas.
Thus in October 2010 David Broder, who virtually embodied conventional wisdom, praised Mr. Cameron for his boldness, and in particular for ''brushing aside the warnings of economists that the sudden, severe medicine could cut short Britain's economic recovery and throw the nation back into recession.'' He then called on President Obama to ''do a Cameron'' and pursue ''a radical rollback of the welfare state now.''
Strange to say, however, those warnings from economists proved all too accurate. And we're quite fortunate that Mr. Obama did not, in fact, do a Cameron.
Which is not to say that all is well with U.S. policy. True, the federal government has avoided all-out austerity. But state and local governments, which must run more or less balanced budgets, have slashed spending and employment as federal aid runs out -- and this has been a major drag on the overall economy. Without those spending cuts, we might already have been on the road to self-sustaining growth; as it is, recovery still hangs in the balance.
And we may get tipped in the wrong direction by Continental Europe, where austerity policies are having the same effect as in Britain, with many signs pointing to recession this year.
The infuriating thing about this tragedy is that it was completely unnecessary. Half a century ago, any economist -- or for that matter any undergraduate who had read Paul Samuelson's textbook ''Economics'' -- could have told you that austerity in the face of depression was a very bad idea. But policy makers, pundits and, I'm sorry to say, many economists decided, largely for political reasons, to forget what they used to know. And millions of workers are paying the price for their willful amnesia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (78%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1348 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Years of Despair Add Uncertainty in Florida Race

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
LAKELAND, Fla. -- Only four years ago, life certainly seemed on the upswing for Kate and Marcus Freeman, young professionals who had recently moved from Worcester, Mass., into a new house here in sun-splashed central Florida, where they hoped to enjoy the warmer weather and new jobs. He was an accountant. She would be teaching preschool.
The future was not supposed to look like this: On Saturday, Mr. and Ms. Freeman were sweating at an intersection off Interstate 4, selling chili for $5 a jar to help save their home, which is in foreclosure. Mr. Freeman, 38, was laid off last year. The couple, who have two sons, fell behind on mortgage payments. Now, hope is in a jar of chili with a label that reads ''Freeman's Home.'' On a good weekend, they can clear $130 after expenses. 
''One day at a time, that's all you can do,'' said Ms. Freeman, 37, aware that the fight for her house was taking place on an even larger battleground -- the politically crucial Interstate 4 corridor, running from Tampa to Orlando to Daytona Beach over seven diverse and struggling counties that tend to swing the most of any in this swing state. The leading Republican presidential candidates, Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich, have been making their cases here, with back-and-forth barbs about the housing crisis being the most contentious issue. They continued to spar on the topic Sunday in a busy day of campaigning in which Mr. Gingrich moved to consolidate the support of grass-roots conservatives.
Ms. Freeman said the candidates needed to be attuned to the suffering in Florida.
''I want the candidates to be real and honest and really take a good look at what's going on in America and definitely for us in Polk County, Florida,'' said Ms. Freeman, who described herself as an undecided conservative Christian voter. ''We need to look at home.''
While the most recent polls show Mr. Romney in the lead, shifting demographics and long-term despair here add an unpredictable element to the fight for Florida. It is unclear whether that will ultimately favor an anti-establishment candidate like Mr. Gingrich or a business-focused campaigner like Mr. Romney.
One thing is certain: the people of central Florida are bound to see intense campaigning far beyond the Republican primary on Tuesday. President Obama won important parts of this territory -- including Orlando and Tampa -- in 2008, but President George W. Bush captured it twice before that. It is, like so many strawberries that dot the landscape, ripe for picking.
A reporter's journey from Daytona Beach to Tampa along Interstate 4 over the weekend revealed that where the upstart optimism of Florida's building boom was once in full tilt, the mood was sour now. Voters were focused on one thing: the state's troubled economy, which has been slower to recover from the recession than that of most states, with 1 of every 360 housing units still in foreclosure.
Every county but one along Interstate 4 has grown since the heady days that came after 2000, according to census data. The non-Cuban Hispanic and black populations have grown, and the bases for both Republicans and Democrats have fluctuated, depending on the county, according to voter registration information. The only group that has grown across all counties since 2008 is undeclared voters.
At the elementary school where Ms. Freeman teaches, 87 percent of children receive a free or reduced-cost lunch, an indicator of poverty rates. And around Lakeland, the largest town in Polk County, the unemployment rate has risen to 11 percent, up from 8 percent four years ago. All of the major cities along Interstate 4 have unemployment rates above the national average of 8.5 percent. Orlando, perhaps buffered a bit by tourism, is the lowest of them, at 9.3 percent.
''You try to find the silver lining, but it's hard,'' said Mr. Freeman, who has enrolled in business classes at a local community college, hoping to turn his homemade chili into a marketable brand. ''Maybe five years down the road, things can be different.''
Others express more bitterness.
''I'm a business owner in Daytona Beach, and for the last eight years I've watched the business go downhill straight into the gutter,'' said George St. Pierre Jr., an airbrush artist who runs a novelty shop off Main Street near the Atlantic Ocean. ''Where I used to be able to employ a lot of people, now I have to do all the work myself and tell people, 'Sorry, I'm not hiring.' I used to make decent money. Down, down, down: that's tourism. And I don't see any change coming.''
Mr. St. Pierre said he had been a lifelong Republican but would not be voting that way this year, highlighting the potential obstacles he believed that the party faced in trying to energize its traditional loyalists here. ''I will vote for a third party before I vote for anything that's out there right now,'' he said. ''To me, there's nobody good out there who really cares about what's going on here, I don't care how you slice it.
''One had those ethics violations,'' he said of Mr. Gingrich, referring to his time as House speaker. ''As for the other one,'' he said of Mr. Romney, ''he is just a liar.''
Others also seemed primed for a third-party candidacy.
''I'm going to do a wait-and-see at this point,'' JoAnn Mellen, 68, a retired phone company worker, said over lunch Friday in Deltona, just north of Orlando. ''We could have a dark horse. I'm hoping there would be someone out there that would make you feel: 'Oh, man! He's the one.' ''
The housing market is atop her list of concerns. ''Especially at our age, we've all been in our houses a long time and we'd like to unload, get smaller. And you just can't,'' said Ms. Mellen, who said she voted for Senator John McCain in 2008.
Her brother, John Palmer, 74, said he would probably back Mr. Gingrich, but also said he did not like him enough to put up a yard sign in his neighborhood, where 30 out of 150 homes are in foreclosure. ''Could the president do anything about it?'' he wondered aloud. ''Probably not.''
There is a palpable sense of resignation. The Lopez family of five shopped for clothes on Saturday at a yard sale in Plant City, just east of Tampa, trying on shoes and shirts. ''We used to shop at J. C. Penney,'' said Sofia, 12, who is of Mexican descent. ''But my mom doesn't take us there anymore. We find things at places like this.''
Rocio Araujo, who is originally from Ecuador, is co-owner of a beauty salon in Kissimmee, outside Orlando. She moved here from Queens seven years ago to take a shot as an entrepreneur. ''It's hard, right, because there's a lot of people thinking, 'If we spend today, what's going to happen tomorrow?' ''
Ms. Araujo said customers routinely bargained for discounts on hair services that cost $25. Her home has lost value. She said she could not afford to think about retirement. ''People are sick from stress because they are worried every day,'' she said.
''I'm a Democrat, but I'm really confused and I don't know if I'm going to vote this year or pass,'' Ms. Araujo continued. ''I always think of this as a blessed country, so it breaks my heart.''
In the community of Misty Glen, outside Tampa in Hillsborough County, there is a sign of recovery, however slight. The original builder abandoned Misty Glen several years ago, leaving a few homeowners amid a partially constructed development. Six months ago, a new builder took over, and a dozen houses have filled some of the empty spaces. A fence has gone up, and a park.
Hillsborough, with 1.2 million residents, is the most populous of the counties along Interstate 4.
''In my opinion, Hillsborough still is struggling from the housing standpoint -- a lot of foreclosures, a lot of short sales,'' said Jarett Rieger, 35, a lawyer. ''But at least our area right here, this pocket right here, seems to be turning the corner.''
But, he added, ''I don't know that the temperament or the mood is much improved throughout the county.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALONG INTERSTATE: 4 Cities in central Florida, clockwise from top left: Lake Buena Vista, Celebration, Daytona Beach and Brandon. (A1)
Business is down for George St. Pierre Jr., an airbrush artist in Daytona Beach. He said he would no longer vote Republican.
Kate Freeman of Lakeland, a teacher, sells chili on the weekends to raise money to save her home from foreclosure.
Rocio Araujo, co-owner of a beauty salon in Kissimmee, said she was confused and might not vote in the election this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) GRAPHICS: Florida's Diverse Electorate and Economic Climate: Mitt Romney has a lead over Newt Gingrich in polls. But in 2008, he lost to John McCain, who won about half of the Hispanic vote. Mr. Romney, who took the hardest line on illegal immigration, finished third among Hispanic voters.
Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich have each run ads in Spanish targeting Hispanic voters, who make up one-tenth of all registered Republicans in the state. More than half of them are in Miami-Dade, and many are also near the Interstate 4 corridor.
Florida's jobless rate remains above the national average, especially in the middle of the state. In a recent poll, nearly half of likely Republican voters in Florida said Mr. Romney would do the best job handling the economy.
Though the unemployment rate in Florida is creeping back down after peaking in late 2010, at 9.9 percent, it is still higher than in the other states that have held their Republican primaries.
Home prices in Florida peaked in 2005 but have fallen drastically since then, with a drop that was sharper than that of the other early primary states and the nation as a whole. (Sources: Florida Division of State, Department of Elections
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Moody's Analytics estimates of median home prices
 Quinnipiac University poll conducted Jan. 19-23 with 601 likely Republican primary voters in Florida.) (GRAPHICS BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); CONSERVATISM (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); FORECLOSURE (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1349 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs, Regardless of Your Politics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''What We Give Up for Health Care,'' by Ezekiel J. Emanuel (Sunday Review, Jan. 22):
Dr. Emanuel is correct that no Americans, including liberals, can ignore escalating health care costs. Unfortunately, this is exactly what he and the rest of the Obama administration did in passing the Affordable Care Act.
To obtain the cooperation of important stakeholders -- the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and major pharmaceutical companies -- in achieving the laudable goal of expanding coverage, our dysfunctional, inefficient and exceedingly expensive system was left intact. 
Now we must do the heavy lifting of actually fixing America's health care system by carrying out structural improvements that will, by their very nature, reduce the incomes of many powerful health care constituencies. This reform effort is the struggle upon which history will judge President Obama's health care initiatives, for, if we fail, America will not only be unable to afford the expanded coverage of the new health care law, but we will also be unable to continue Medicare or Medicaid as we know them.
JAMES B. RICKERT Bloomington, Ind., Jan. 23, 2012
The writer is an orthopedic surgeon.
To the Editor:
Ezekiel J. Emanuel chooses to assign liberals with controlling costs in health care, when he should be waving his finger at the health care sector. When ''skyrocketed'' health care costs come up, profit never makes it into the discussion or calculations.
Dr. Emanuel should remember, too, that many liberals wanted the cost-saving, improved Medicare-for-all system to be included in Senator Max Baucus's committee hearings. Sadly, the cabal made sure that its proponents got no seat at the table.
H.R. 676, the Expanded and Improved Medicare for All Act, would have cut out unnecessary administrative costs, given Americans real choice in their health care, and dissolved the employment-benefits contract that keeps us an indentured labor force. These are factors that both liberals and conservatives should be able to support.
BARBARA COMMINS San Francisco, Jan. 22, 2012
The writer is a registered nurse.
To the Editor:
Ezekiel J. Emanuel suggests that liberals ''ignore costs.'' He doesn't seem to recognize that many conservatives oppose the payment reform proposals in the Affordable Care Act. Remember the outcry about ''death panels''?
Moreover, it should not be a given that insurers should continue to consume a large fraction of the health care dollar.
There are many good options for payment reform not included in the health care law. We need a wider discussion on how care is paid for, and how everyone can have access to care in a way that is more efficient, safer and better.
Our government should not write off the possibility of single-payer (which it has so far, largely because of conservative opposition). Those are liberal ideas, and they do not mean that costs should be ignored.
BRUCE L. WILDER Pittsburgh, Jan. 22, 2012
The writer is a neurosurgeon and a lawyer.
To the Editor:
When it comes to health services, liberals care about costs but also have a sense of history. In the 1960s, the United States had arguably the best health care in the world despite the usual suspects abusing the system. Then there was the steady power grab by the health maintenance organizations and pharmaceuticals that turned health care into an industry rather than a human right.
Eliminate the greed-driven, corrupt and often incompetent middlemen, and costs will plummet.
CAROL SANJOUR Brooklyn, Jan. 22, 2012
The writer is a clinical psychologist.
To the Editor:
Ezekiel J. Emanuel cites many adverse economic effects of American health care but exhibits a blind spot for a potentially catastrophic hazard of reform. Health care is enormously labor-intensive. A reform that reduces health care's percentage of gross domestic product to Germany's 10.5 percent or Britain's 8.7 percent from the American 17 percent inevitably reduces employment by as much or more.
Many hundreds of thousands of hospital nurses, technologists, administrators, secretaries and doctors become unemployed or must find new positions. One does not simply free 6.5 to 8.3 percent of G.D.P. for other purposes; it disappears.
Moreover, those losing jobs cannot simply be reprogrammed instantly to support education or some other virtuous purpose; their skills are obsolete.
Thus, the demand for government programs to support the unemployed and prematurely retired will increase enormously. If advocates for health care reform continue to ignore this issue, any success they have will only undermine our economy in the future.
NATHANIEL REICHEK Roslyn, N.Y., Jan. 22, 2012
The writer is a professor of medicine and biomedical engineering at Stony Brook University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); MEDICARE (89%); WRITERS (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HOSPITALS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ORTHOPEDICS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INSURANCE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (58%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (56%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (56%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); MAX BAUCUS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1350 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Surveying a Global Power Shift

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
STRATEGIC VISION
America and the Crisis of Global Power
By Zbigniew Brzezinski
Illustrated. 208 pages. Basic Books. $26.
The 2008 crash and America and Europe's continuing economic woes; the rise of China and worries about the decline of the West; and technology-fueled uprisings around the world from the Arab Spring protests to anti-Putin demonstrations in Russia -- such developments underscore just how prescient Zbigniew Brzezinski has been in his earlier writings.
In the early 1990s, when some scholars were arguing that the end of the cold war and the implosion of the Soviet Union signified the advent of a new era in which liberal democracy would triumph around the planet, Mr. Brzezinski was warning about the forces of upheaval rumbling through the developing world and the weaknesses of the West that could undermine its global clout. 
In his 1993 book ''Out of Control: Global Turmoil on the Eve of the 21st Century'' Mr. Brzezinski argued that the acceleration of communication made possible by technology set contemporary history apart from the past, that China was more likely than Russia to assume a leadership role on the world stage, and that America's emphasis on ''material wealth, on consumption and on the propagation of self-indulgence as the definition of the good life'' could endanger its pre-eminence as a global power.
Now, in his provocative new book, ''Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power,'' Mr. Brzezinski -- the national security adviser to President Jimmy Carter -- surveys the current state of world affairs. He provides a clear-eyed, sharp-tongued assessment of this hinge moment in time, when the world's center of gravity is shifting ''from the West to the East.''
This situation has come about, he says, because of America's economic and political problems at home (including a growing and ''eventually unsustainable national debt,'' faltering public education and an increasingly gridlocked and highly partisan political process), misguided foreign policy decisions (most notably George W. Bush's determination to wage an unnecessary and costly war in Iraq) and the growing mastery, by potential rivals, of ''21st-century modernity.''
Certainly some of these observations will be familiar to readers of recent books by Bill Clinton (''Back to Work'') and Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum (''That Used to Be Us''), but Mr. Brzezinski does a cogent job here of situating America's relationships with other countries in a geopolitical and historical context. And he uses his expertise in these areas to draw a harrowing portrait of what the world might look like without a re-energized and strategic-minded United States on the global stage.
In the 1990s the United States had become the ''first truly global superpower''; since then, he says, there has been a global dispersal of power, with a weakened European Union, along with Russia, China, India and Japan all maneuvering for position. This dispersal of power, he goes on, is magnified by ''the emergence of a volatile phenomenon: the worldwide political awakening of populations until recently politically passive or repressed.'' He adds: ''Occurring recently in Central and Eastern Europe and lately in the Arab world, this awakening is the cumulative product of an interactive and interdependent world connected by instant visual communications and of the demographic youth bulge in the less advanced societies composed of the easy-to-mobilize and politically restless university students and the socially deprived unemployed.''
In such an increasingly unstable world, Mr. Brzezinski suggests, the United States remains, in the words of the former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, the ''indispensable nation.'' Though no longer a hegemonic colossus, America remains essential, in his view, to promoting ''a larger and more vital West'' (embracing ''perhaps in varying ways, both Turkey and a truly democratizing Russia'') while at the same time playing the ''role of balancer and conciliator'' in Asia. There it ought to engage China ''in a serious dialogue regarding regional stability'' to reduce the possibility not only of American-Chinese conflicts but also of miscalculations between China and Japan, or China and India, or China and Russia.
Mr. Brzezinski notes that President Obama has ''failed to speak directly to the American people about America's changing role in the world, its implications, and its demands,'' but this book curiously lacks any detailed analysis of Mr. Obama's policies so far -- nothing remotely approaching the acute assessments of Presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George H. W. Bush contained in this author's 2007 book, ''Second Chance,'' which charted the opportunities he considers missed at the end of the cold war (like using the victory in the first Gulf war strategically to press for an Israeli-Palestinian accord).
Also missing from this book are any substantive discussions of how the United States might overcome ''its staggering domestic challenges and reorient its drifting foreign policy'' and how the current European debt crisis might affect the United States and the future fortunes of the West.
What Mr. Brzezinski does do here -- lucidly, and for the most part with great persuasiveness -- is explore the consequences that a steady slide by America into impotence and irrelevance might have on the rest of the world. Such a development, he argues, would probably not result in the '' 'coronation' of an effective global successor'' like China, but would likely lead to a ''protracted phase of rather inconclusive and somewhat chaotic realignments of both global and regional power, with no grand winners and many more losers.''
An America ''in serious decline for domestic and/or external reasons,'' he says, would lead to a breakdown in the ability of the international system to prevent conflict once it became evident that ''America is unwilling or unable to protect states it once considered, for national interest and/ or doctrinal reasons, worthy of its engagement.'' As he sees it, a more Darwinian world of tumbling dominoes would most likely result: there would be little to prohibit regional powers (like Russia) from exerting claims on neighbors falling within traditional or claimed spheres of influence (like Georgia, Belarus and Ukraine). Taiwan would become increasingly vulnerable, and so too would Israel.
In the case of Afghanistan, Mr. Brzezinski says, a failure to sustain United States-sponsored international involvement in the region could turn that country into a haven again for international terrorism, while a decline in American power and aid could lead to a worst-case outcome in which Pakistan devolved into ''some variation of nuclear warlordism'' or became ''a militant-Islamic and anti-Western government similar to Iran.''
For that matter, Mr. Brzezinski suggests, a weakened America would increase the dangers of nuclear proliferation around the world. Were doubts to be raised about the United States' nuclear umbrella, he says, countries like South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, Turkey and Israel would have to seek security elsewhere -- that elsewhere meaning ''nuclear weapons of one's own or from the extended deterrence of another power -- most likely Russia, China or India.''
Global environmental issues -- including climate change and growing water shortages -- would be similarly affected. In a gloomy conclusion to this insightful book Mr. Brzezinski writes that without a revitalized America helping to manage the international commons, ''progress on the issues of central importance to social well-being and ultimately to human survival would stall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Zbigniew Brzezinski (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIE BRZEZINSKI) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); PUBLIC DEBT (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Strategic Vision (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1351 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: New Strategy, Old Pentagon Budget

 BODY:
The $259 billion in budget cuts over the next five years announced by the Pentagon may sound like a lot. But they are mainly a scaling back of previously projected spending -- the delights of the Washington budget games.
This year, Pentagon spending will total $531 billion. In 2017, it will rise to $567 billion. Factoring in inflation, that amounts to only a minuscule 1.6 percent real cut. (Both numbers exclude war spending -- $115 billion this year.) 
After a decade of unrestrained Pentagon spending increases, President Obama deserves credit for putting on the brakes. The cuts are a credible down payment on his pledge to reduce projected defense spending by $487 billion in the next decade. They are not going to be enough. In the likely absence of a bipartisan budget pact, a further automatic across-the-board 10-year cut of nearly $500 billion is to take effect starting next January.
Even if a last-minute deal heads that off, the country needs to find more savings. And there is still plenty of room to cut deeper without jeopardizing national security.
Early in January, President Obama outlined a new, more pragmatic defense strategy. Republicans predictably claimed he was hollowing out the force -- but a smarter, more restrained use of force is just what the country needs to secure its vital interests.
Much of the savings will come from cutting the size of the Army and Marine Corps by almost 13 percent and stretching out purchases of planes and ships. At the same time, the military will buy more unpiloted drones, add special operations units, equip submarines to carry more cruise missiles and expand its cyberwarfare capacities.
That makes sense in a world where terrorism and unconventional attacks are a primary threat. Any plan to downsize ground forces must be matched by a credible plan to quickly build them up, if necessary.
The Pentagon also proposes a new round of domestic base closings, a less generous formula for military pay raises after 2015 and higher health insurance premiums for military retirees (families of working-age retirees now pay $500 annually), all of which we strongly support.
Unfortunately, that new thinking has been dragged down by some old-style budgetary inertia. Mr. Obama needs to push the Pentagon to do better. Here are some additional cuts that make sense:
SHRINK THE F-35 PROGRAM The total order of stealth fighters should be reduced to 1,000, from 2,440, saving more than $150 billion. The F-35 was designed as a low-cost, supercapable aircraft. It has become the costliest Pentagon procurement project ever and its performance has been disappointing. The Air Force, Navy and Marines need to cut their losses. Most of the savings would not come until the 2020s. Over $20 billion could be saved this decade by canceling the troubled Marine Corps variant.
CUT THE NUCLEAR BUDGET Mr. Obama has declared his commitment to arms control, but there is no reflection of that in the budget plan. He needs to back it up with significant cuts in the number of deployed strategic nuclear weapons, ballistic missile submarines and intercontinental ballistic missiles. Senator Tom Coburn, a Republican, offers a sensible plan to do that, and estimates that it could save $79 billion over the next decade.
GO TO 10 AIRCRAFT CARRIER GROUPS The Pentagon could save $4 billion to $8 billion over a decade by revisiting the president's unwise decision not to eliminate one of the 11 aircraft carriers with associated ships and aircraft. Ten would provide more than enough surge capacity to support naval air operations anywhere in the world.
We know that it is politically easier to continue programs that outlive their usefulness or outrun their cost estimates -- especially when Republican politicians are so eager to promise the Pentagon a blank check. And especially when the defense industry and its lobbyists are spreading so much cash around on Capitol Hill. But the country cannot afford to continue on this way. And there is no strategic argument for doing so. The era of hard choices at the Pentagon has barely begun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (86%); NAVIES (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MILITARY BENEFITS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TERRORISM (63%); CLOSINGS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1352 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: In Davos, Technology Moves to Center Stage

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON. 
Email: bilton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland -- When I set out to report at the World Economic Forum, I imagined it might be difficult to find technology-related stories. It turns out, I was a tad wrong. I would have had more luck finding a snowless Alpine mountain in the winter than finding people discussing a topic that did not involve technology.
After a year that has included the social media-fueled protests of the Arab Spring and Occupy Wall Street, global Internet privacy legislation and billions of dollars in technology stock offerings, tech and social media have not only entered the building, they are the walls holding it up. 
Even the 102-page program guide for the World Economic Forum, where business, political and intellectual leaders gather each year to talk and frolic, has more references to technology and social media than any of the nerdiest Silicon Valley blogs I read daily.
Of course, tech is not a new concept at the forum. Eric E. Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, told me he had been attending Davos for 15 years, two years before Google was even created.
But what has changed, I was told by dozens of people I spoke with, is technology's infusion into every topic here.
Sessions on philanthropy, agriculture, social unrest, media and the economy were all full of digital banter. One attendee even told me that social media repeatedly came up during a discussion on religion.
Paulo Coelho, the best-selling Brazilian novelist, said in an interview that business and political leaders were finally accepting the power of social media. ''Five years ago Davos was discussing new business models; now that has totally dropped. Now it is all about the Internet,'' he told me. ''They used to have answers here, and now it seems people are more comfortable with questions; the Internet has a lot of questions.''
Mr. Coelho, by the way, has more than seven million followers on Facebook and three million on Twitter.
Anna Ewing, Nasdaq's chief information officer, said, ''Technology is now framed as a core strategic and business issue.''
''It's part of every discussion here,'' she said, and ''not just something that is being talked about by the technoweenies.'' Those ''technoweenies'' are also the new celebrities of Davos. During a philanthropy plenary session I attended, Sean Parker, the Napster entrepreneur and the former president of Facebook, nearly ran out of the room after his session had finished as dozens of people tried to corner him.
Some of the most elite parties - a renowned part of the Davos experience - took place in the Swiss chalets of tech celebrities too, including Mr. Parker and Yuri Milner, the Russian billionaire who has invested in Facebook, Zynga and Groupon.
Though Silicon Valley was top of mind, there was also a growing worry about the loss of jobs that often results from new technologies. The new jobs created don't usually fit the qualifications of the newly unemployed. When cars drive themselves, for example, what happens to the millions of jobs that will inevitably be lost?
Tech drives the economy, but it doesn't drive employment. ''We are a 100-person company and we serve 50 million people. That kind of leverage has never existed before,'' said Drew Houston, co-founder of the start-up Dropbox, a service that stores and shares digital files. Mr. Schmidt of Google said, ''At Davos the conversation is really about economic growth and the reality is that technological advancement benefits those who are educated but endangers jobs that are routine and automatable.''
''This has been true for two hundred years with technologies,'' he added.
Next year as the wealthy and the powerful gather here again to discuss the same topics, the technoweenies among them will have moved society even further forward.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (70%); INTERNET PRIVACY (70%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); GROUPON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1353 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Traffic Jam Economics

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Plans to improve more roads or to bring more taxis into service generally make traffic worse, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Sometimes, trying to get someplace faster, we end up slowing one another down. Traffic jams try our patience, waste our time and worsen the quality of our air. 
Urban congestion exemplifies the larger problem of effectively coordinating individual decisions to use largely unpriced goods like roads. Drivers are adept at anticipating delays and factoring them into decisions on whether and when to hit the road. But, absent tolls, they are not compelled to factor in the delays their driving imposes on others.
One recent estimate puts the price of commuter delays alone at more than $100 billion in the United States in 2010, or nearly $750 for every commuter in the country. 
Some efforts to solve the problem, paradoxically, make it worse.

For instance, a recent article in The American Economic Review by Gilles Duranton and Matthew Turner shows that road construction in the United States typically leads to a proportionate increase in utilization, leaving congestion unchanged. Build more roads and more cars will come. 
As a clever summary posted on Streetsblog.org (a fascinating platform for debates on urban transportation) waggishly puts it, "Roads cause traffic." 
Similarly, adding more taxis in an urban area can slow not just cabs but all traffic, making urban driving less efficient for everyone. 
A new plan to increase the number of cab medallions - and hence the number of taxis - in New York City has been greeted with enthusiasm. But the plan could backfire. 
The economist Charles Komanoff has developed a computer model that estimates the impact of the planned addition of about 2,000 taxicabs (all of them wheelchair accessible) to Manhattan streets.
Cars in the central business district of Manhattan, already hampered by traffic, currently average about 9.5 miles per hour, a speed that many bicyclists can match. Cabs spend far more time than private cars cruising the streets. Mr. Komanoff estimates that adding one cab to the transportation mix is the equivalent of adding 40 private cars. 
His model predicts that a 15 percent increase in taxi traffic (equivalent to the planned increase in cab medallion sales) will cause travel speeds across all of Manhattan south of 60th Street from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekdays to fall by 12 percent. 
Called by Wired magazine "The Man Who Could Unsnarl Manhattan Traffic," Mr. Komanoff has long been developing his model of the city's transportation system. He makes a passionate and detailed case for a congestion pricing policy - essentially a toll to drive into congested areas - that would discourage auto trips to the city's central business district. 
Many economists favor the concept of congestion pricing (sometimes called road pricing) because it requires private users to pay for delays they impose on others. A clever animated version of the arguments in its favor is available online at Streetsblog.org. 
London, a city that resembles New York in many ways, introduced congestion pricing in 2003. The widely heralded results include a decrease in traffic, improvement in air quality and expansion of bus travel and biking. Two-thirds of Londoners express support for the policy, including members of the business community, who were initially nervous about its possible effects. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pushed hard in 2008 for New York City to put a congestion pricing plan into effect, but opposition was fierce from those living or working in other boroughs, and the state Legislature never came close to authorizing the plan. 
Mr. Komanoff asserts that this opposition could be overcome with a clear plan to use the revenues to expand and improve public transportation in the city. His proposal would impose a price of $8 to $10 on cars entering the central business district, with lower rates for nonpeak hours and weekends.
Modern electronic toll collection systems make it easy to accomplish important details. Deliveries of food and other supplies to the area could be timed at nonpeak hours. Other policies, like reducing bridge tolls that do not help improve traffic flow, could help buffer the economic impact. Drivers would be allowed one free trip a month. 
More than $1 billion in projected annual revenues from this plan could significantly improve the bus, subway and bike-lane systems that many New Yorkers rely upon. The resulting changes could make it easier for residents of the boroughs and suburbs to get into and out of the central business district. 
Sometimes, paying money upfront saves everyone money in the end. Not to mention saving time, air and the energy we need to solve a variety of other environmental jams.

        
The Bicycle Dividend
        
The Best States to Grow Up In
        
Homemaker Dad, Breadwinner Mom
        
Just Try Harder
        
Utopian Capitalism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (87%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); DISABLED ACCESS (50%) Commuting; Congestion Pricing; Daily Economist; mass transit; Michael Bloomberg; Nancy Folbre; New York City; public transportation; road pricing; tolls; traffic; Komanoff, Charles; Roads and Traffic; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Manhattan (NYC); Today's Economist

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Komanoff, Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1354 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Bank Organization to Buy Stake in Russian Stock Market

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has agreed to acquire a stake in a Russian stock exchange as part of an effort to encourage transparent capital markets in the country. 

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland -- The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development said on Monday that it had agreed to acquire a stake in a Russian stock exchange as part of an effort to encourage transparent capital markets in the country.
The institution, which is based in London and promotes free market economies in former Soviet countries, said it would acquire slightly more than 6 percent of the Micex-RTS stock exchange in Moscow. As part of the agreement, the bank, whose largest shareholder is the United States, will be able to nominate a representative to the exchange's board, which has 19 members.
Thomas Mirow, president of the bank, said it hoped to encourage more stock listings in Russia and draw investors from other countries in the region like Ukraine and Kazakhstan. Based on past experience, Mr. Mirow said in an interview during the World Economic Forum last week, the small stake should still be enough to push for better management practices at the exchange and "set benchmarks in governance and transparency."
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development described the investment, its first in a stock exchange, as part of a strategy to develop stronger capital markets in the 29 countries in which it operates. The debt crisis in Europe, which has prompted western European banks to reduce lending by their subsidiaries in eastern Europe, has highlighted the need for former Soviet countries to have their own platforms for trading and raising capital. 
A Russian sovereign wealth fund, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, will also invest in Micex-RTS, buying a 1.25 percent stake, the bank said in a statement. The Russian exchange describes itself as one of the top 20 in the world in trading volume, and also handles trading in bonds, derivatives and currencies.
Mr. Mirow replied cautiously to questions about political turmoil in Russia, but said recent protests showed that middle-class Russians were more politically active than many analysts had thought. Investments like the one in Micex-RTS help to promote the economy, and therefore a bigger middle class, he said.
"Recent events have shown, contrary to what the experts have told us, there is a growing middle class," Mr. Mirow said. "They are not just looking at their own economic advantage, but have a feeling of political responsibility."
By helping to develop a stronger private sector, he said, "we contribute to strengthening the middle class."
Ruben Aganbegyan, president of Micex-RTS, said in statement on Monday, "This investment proves that the reforms that are being implemented in Russia contribute considerably to creating and promoting a favorable investment climate."

        
French Official Calls Bank 'Bashing' Futile
        
I.M.F. Chief Suggests 'Fire Brigade' for Europe's Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (94%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (70%) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; MICEX-RTS; Russian Direct Investment Fund; Thomas Mirow; Mirow, Thomas; Mergers & Acquisitions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (94%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Mirow, Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UKRAINE (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1355 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: A Plea for Southern Treasures

BYLINE: JOANNA M. FOSTER


HIGHLIGHT: From highway construction to mountaintop mining to pollution runoff, a group documents threats to mountains, waterways and forests. 

 BODY:
The Southern Environmental Law Center, a Virginia-based nonprofit legal advocacy group, has released its 2012 list of the Top 10 endangered places in the Southeast, environmentally speaking. While the list changes from year to year, certain places like the Chesapeake Bay remain a top concern -- and issues like pollution from coal-fired power plants and the protection of public lands and old-growth forests are recurring themes. While the list only considers six states, the issues raised by each site resonate nationally, and even globally.
Alabama's coast. For the second year running, the coastline made it on the list. Still recovering from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill of April 2010, the center says, beaches and marshes and the people and wildlife who depend on them are at as great a risk as ever from deepwater drilling. 
Dawson Forest, Georgia. This 10,000-acre refuge north of Atlanta is a popular destination for hikers and hunters. The threat is a proposed reservoir that would pump 100 million gallons of water each day from the Etowah, a river that runs through the refuge. These withdrawals of water would virtually eliminate the Etowah River during low-flow months, the group contends, killing aquatic species including some federally protected fish and leaving downstream communities scrambling for alternative drinking water supplies. 
Catawba-Wateree River Basin, North Carolina. Starting in the Blue Ridge Mountains, these 5,000 miles of waterways provide clean water and recreation for hundreds of thousands of people. The basin is threatened by coal ash ponds and by the water withdrawals by power plants, hydroelectric damns and reservoirs, the center says. Duke Energy is applying for a new federal license for five hydroelectric dams in South Carolina, and a 92-acre reservoir has been proposed for the river.North Carolina Piedmont. While hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is currently banned in North Carolina, that hasn't stopped gas companies from buying leases for potential drilling sites on the Triassic Basin, which stretches from the Research Triangle to the South Carolina state line. Pressure is building for lifting the ban and opening up natural gas explorations, stirring fears about potential groundwater contamination. Savannah River, South Carolina. This 300-mile-long river has been an important shipping channel since South Carolina and Georgia were first settled. Now, the Army Corps of Engineers plans to spend $650 million to deepen 38 miles of the river in the hope of attracting the larger container ships that are expected to arrive in the region after the Panama Canal's expansion is completed in 2014. The dredging, intended to deepen parts of the river by as much as six feet, would lead to increased saltwater intrusions, destroying about 10 percent of the freshwater marsh of the Savannah National Wildlife Refuge, home to the endangered shortnose sturgeon and a stop-off point for thousands of migratory waterfowl. Chilhowee Mountain, Tennessee. On the outer edge of the Great Smoky Mountains, in the Cherokee National Forest, this is a popular hiking destination. Outdoor enthusiasts are the backbone of the local economy. But the center says the area's integrity is threatened by renewed pressure to complete Corridor K, a four-lane highway project that was first proposed in the 1960s. The highway would provide a third route between Chattanooga, Tenn., and Asheville, N.C., which are already connected by Interstates 75 and 40Chesapeake Bay, Virginia. This longtime favorite on the endangered list is the largest estuary in the country and one of the most productive ecosystems in the world. The bay, which is also vital to the health of the commercial fishing industry, is inundated by pollution from the six densely populated states in its watershed. While the Environmental Protection Agency is coordinating cleanup efforts to limit the amount of pollution flowing in, the Farm Bureau and the National Association of Home Builders have filed suit to challenge the plan, and legislation to halt the pollution management project is pending in Congress. Southside Virginia. A ban on uranium mining has been in place in Virginia for 30 years, but there is growing pressure for it to be lifted. In 2007, Virginia Uranium Inc. announced plans for a uranium mine in Pittsylvania County in southern Virginia. Radioactive contamination in such a densely settled area could have health consequences, the center warns, endangering the drinking water of over one million people. Virginia and Tennessee mountains. Yes, all of them are endangered, the center says, unless action is taken to stop the coal industry's mountaintop removal methods, which have already scarred 500 mountains and polluted 1,700 miles of streams in four states. The group maintains that under current laws, wildlife, drinking water and recreational areas are at risk.
Charlottesville, Va. Last summer a 10-year-old plan to build a bypass west of Charlottesville was revived, quickly securing local and state approval. Federal approval is still needed. Opponents of the bypass, designed to alleviate traffic on Route 29, claim it would scar the rural countryside and disrupt the community's character. 
What's your view of the tensions between industry, development and conservation in these areas? Do you know of any other places in the region that locals and conservationists are worried about?

        
Oil, the Loop Current and the Atlantic
        
First Biodiesel Pipeline Starts Operations
        
Southeast Mulls Offshore Wind Power
        
On Our Radar: Reports of Power Plant Protest in China
        
Among Hundreds of Dead Dolphins, an Intriguing Survivor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); RIVERS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (88%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); WATER QUALITY (88%); OIL EXTRACTION (88%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FISHES (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); SURFACE MINING (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); HIKING (76%); BEACHES (75%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); BIRDS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (70%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); OIL SPILLS (69%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); ARMIES (50%) Alabama; Charlottesvilel; Chesapeake Bay; Chilowee Mountain; endangered places; North Carolina; South Carolina; Southeast; Tennessee; Virginia; Asheville (NC); Charlottesville (Va); Georgia; Air Pollution; Breaking News; forests; Living; Politics and Policy; Rivers; Toxic Pollution; Water Conservation; water quality; wildlife

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (53%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (69%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PANAMA (79%) Asheville (NC); Charlottesville (Va); Georgia; North Carolina; South Carolina; Tennessee; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1356 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal: Eric Ripert discusses his favorite airport food in New York and around the world. He doesn't mention World Bean coffee in the Delta terminal at La Guardia, one of the best pour-overs in the city. Are they still there? -- Nick Fox
Dash and Bella: On slow-cooking beef shanks and learning about how we're built. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Washington Post: The chef Kaz Okochi on how shifts in the global economy will affect our sushi consumption. -- Julia Moskin
: "I don't think about whom I'm alienating or not. We've been here almost nine years, and I've changed and matured and grown up and become more comfortable in my own skin." Q. and A. with Wylie Dufresne, the experimental chef of WD-50. -- Eric Asimov
The Guardian: Stodgy, clumsy and just too bloody big: The argument for ditching the standard British pint glass in favor of a smaller vessel that flatters the beer. -- Patrick Farrell
: Salinas Valley food giants are investing millions questing for the "perfect wash" to protect salads, vegetables and melons from E. coli 0157:H7 and other contaminants, after the business-threatening deaths of 30 people last year from listeria-laced cantaloupe. -- Glenn Collins 
: "A little wine brings spiritual music to secular life.'' Andrew Jefford considers the benefits of occasional periods of abstaining from alcohol. -- Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: Why some of the foods that disgust you are considered tasty delicacies elsewhere. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The "Must-Watch Food Videos of the Week'' includes a predictably awesome one of Dave Arnold making a flaming drink at Booker & Dax. But the most memorable is a sweet couple of minutes with Anita Lo and David Bouley reminiscing about the early days of Montrachet. -- Nick Fox
The New York Times: Giants versus Patriots? Ho-hum. The hotter Super Bowl battle is between Tabasco and Frank's RedHot sauce over the consumers whom one ad agency calls "zesties." -- Patrick Farrell
Eater: Twelve New York steaks to eat before you die. After looking at this you'll want to eat all 12 and, of course, then you will die. -- Nick Fox
The New York Post: A Tokyo ramen crawl with the American-born chef Ivan Orkin. -- Julia Moskin
The Chicago Tribune: It's ba-a-a-c-k: that Don Quixote-like effort to empower the Food and Drug Administration to regulate the $28 billion dietary-supplements industry. Farmers, botanical-extract operators and vitamin makers are gearing up in opposition. But an editorial in The New England Journal of Medicine argues that the new regulatory efforts don't go nearly far enough. -- Glenn Collins 
: Today's lesson: carbonic maceration. Jamie Goode examines this forbidding term, a process for producing light, fruity, approachable wines that is often associated with Beaujolais. -- Eric Asimov
Serious Eats: Not all coffee tastes good black, but give it at least a try before you head for the cream and sugar. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); E COLI (76%); BEER & ALE (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (71%); BACTERIA (70%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (65%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (60%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1357 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Talbots Reconsiders Sycamore's Lifeline

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: The women's clothing chain has agreed to open its books to Sycamore Partners, the private equity firm that owns a 9.9 percent stake in Talbots. 

 BODY:
Talbots may find a home with Sycamore Partners after all.
The troubled retail chain has agreed to open its books to the private equity firm, as it considers a possible sale, according to a filing disclosed on Monday. The move comes about a month after Talbots officially rebuffed a $212 million buyout bid by Sycamore, deeming it too low. On Dec. 20, the company said it was exploring its strategic options, effectively putting itself up for sale.
Those options now appear limited.
Amid deteriorating sales, Talbots seems to be warming to the idea of finally selling itself to Sycamore, one of its largest investors with a 9.9 percent stake. Talbots, according to the filing, will provide Sycamore with "certain confidential information regarding the business, operations, strategy and prospects."
Founded in 1947, the retailer carved out a niche in the fashion industry by offering classic pieces, like blouses and pencil skirts, for a mature clientele. But in recent years, the chain, based in Hingham, Mass., has fallen out of favor with fashion analysts, who have criticized the brand for its dowdy style and its failure to appeal to younger generations. 
The company has also struggled to reshuffle its management team. Last year, Talbots ousted its chief creative officer and announced the retirement of its chief executive, Trudy Sullivan. It has yet to announce successors, but it has hired Spencer Stuart to lead its C.E.O. search.
"As one of Talbots' largest shareholders, we are concerned by the company's rapidly deteriorating performance," Stefan L. Kaluzny, a Sycamore managing director, said in a letter to Talbots in December. "Nonetheless, we believe that Talbots has significant potential and remains a premier, storied brand."
At the time, Sycamore had offered $3 a share but said it was willing to consider increasing its offer if it had access to more information. 
Talbots has a strong presence in North America, with about 550 stores in the United States and Canada. But its sales have been weak compared with many competitors in an already challenging economic environment. 
It reported losses in the second and third quarters, recording a loss of $22.1 million, or 32 cents a share, in the third quarter alone. With losses mounting, Sycamore has questioned the company's access to liquidity. As of December, Talbots had used up more than half of a $200 million credit line. 
Shares of Talbots were relatively flat in early trading on Monday. 

        
Talbots Rebuffs Buyout Offer From Sycamore
        
Sycamore Makes Takeover Bid for Talbots

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%) Sycamore Partners; Talbots; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Talbots Inc; Talbots Inc|TLB|NYSE; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity; Retail/Leisure

ORGANIZATION: Sycamore Partners; Talbots Inc

TICKER: Talbots Inc; TLB; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (71%); CANADA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1358 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal: Eric Ripert discusses his favorite airport food in New York and around the world. He doesn't mention World Bean coffee in the Delta terminal at La Guardia, one of the best pour-overs in the city. Are they still there? -- Nick Fox
Dash and Bella: On slow-cooking beef shanks and learning about how we're built. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Washington Post: The chef Kaz Okochi on how shifts in the global economy will affect our sushi consumption. -- Julia Moskin
: "I don't think about whom I'm alienating or not. We've been here almost nine years, and I've changed and matured and grown up and become more comfortable in my own skin." Q. and A. with Wylie Dufresne, the experimental chef of WD-50. -- Eric Asimov
The Guardian: Stodgy, clumsy and just too bloody big: The argument for ditching the standard British pint glass in favor of a smaller vessel that flatters the beer. -- Patrick Farrell
: Salinas Valley food giants are investing millions questing for the "perfect wash" to protect salads, vegetables and melons from E. coli 0157:H7 and other contaminants, after the business-threatening deaths of 30 people last year from listeria-laced cantaloupe. -- Glenn Collins 
: "A little wine brings spiritual music to secular life.'' Andrew Jefford considers the benefits of occasional periods of abstaining from alcohol. -- Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: Why some of the foods that disgust you are considered tasty delicacies elsewhere. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The "Must-Watch Food Videos of the Week'' includes a predictably awesome one of Dave Arnold making a flaming drink at Booker & Dax. But the most memorable is a sweet couple of minutes with Anita Lo and David Bouley reminiscing about the early days of Montrachet. -- Nick Fox
The New York Times: Giants versus Patriots? Ho-hum. The hotter Super Bowl battle is between Tabasco and Frank's RedHot sauce over the consumers whom one ad agency calls "zesties." -- Patrick Farrell
Eater: Twelve New York steaks to eat before you die. After looking at this you'll want to eat all 12 and, of course, then you will die. -- Nick Fox
The New York Post: A Tokyo ramen crawl with the American-born chef Ivan Orkin. -- Julia Moskin
The Chicago Tribune: It's ba-a-a-c-k: that Don Quixote-like effort to empower the Food and Drug Administration to regulate the $28 billion dietary-supplements industry. Farmers, botanical-extract operators and vitamin makers are gearing up in opposition. But an editorial in The New England Journal of Medicine argues that the new regulatory efforts don't go nearly far enough. -- Glenn Collins 
: Today's lesson: carbonic maceration. Jamie Goode examines this forbidding term, a process for producing light, fruity, approachable wines that is often associated with Beaujolais. -- Eric Asimov
Serious Eats: Not all coffee tastes good black, but give it at least a try before you head for the cream and sugar. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); E COLI (76%); BEER & ALE (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (71%); BACTERIA (70%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (65%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (60%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1359 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Communities Learn the Good Life Can Be a Killer

BYLINE: JANE E. BRODY


HIGHLIGHT: The sedentary comforts of suburban expansion have fostered obesity, poor health, social isolation, excessive stress and depression. 

 BODY:
Developers in the last half-century called it progress when they built homes and shopping malls far from city centers throughout the country, sounding the death knell for many downtowns. But now an alarmed cadre of public health experts say these expanded metropolitan areas have had a far more serious impact on the people who live there by creating vehicle-dependent environments that foster obesity, poor health, social isolation, excessive stress and depression.
As a result, these experts say, our "built environment" - where we live, work, play and shop - has become a leading cause of disability and death in the 21st century. Physical activity has been disappearing from the lives of young and old, and many communities are virtual "food deserts," serviced only by convenience stores that stock nutrient-poor prepared foods and drinks.
According to Dr. Richard J. Jackson, professor and chairman of environmental health sciences at the University of California, Los Angeles, unless changes are made soon in the way many of our neighborhoods are constructed, people in the current generation (born since 1980) will be the first in America to live shorter lives than their parents do.
Although a decade ago urban planning was all but missing from public health concerns, a sea change has occurred. At a meeting of the American Public Health Association in October, Dr. Jackson said, there were about 300 presentations on how the built environment inhibits or fosters the ability to be physically active and get healthy food.
In a healthy environment, he said, "people who are young, elderly, sick or poor can meet their life needs without getting in a car," which means creating places where it is safe and enjoyable to walk, bike, take in nature and socialize.
"People who walk more weigh less and live longer," Dr. Jackson said. "People who are fit live longer. People who have friends and remain socially active live longer. We don't need to prove all of this," despite the plethora of research reports demonstrating the ill effects of current community structures.
The Price of Progress
"We've become the victims of our own success," Dr. Jackson said of the public health mission that cleared cities of congested slums. "By living far from where we work, we reduced crowding and improved the quality of our air and water, which drove down rates of infectious disease." But as people have moved farther and farther from where they work, shop and socialize, the rates of chronic diseases have soared.
Public transportation has not kept pace with the expansion of suburbs and exurbs. Nor are there enough sidewalks, nearby parks and safe places to walk, cycle or play outdoors in many, if not most, towns. Parents spend hours in cars getting to and from work; children are bused or driven to and from school; and those who can't drive must depend on others to take them everywhere or risk becoming socially isolated.
In 1974, 66 percent of all children walked or biked to school By 2000, that number had dropped to 13 percent.
"Children who grow up in suburbia can't meet their life needs without getting a ride somewhere," Dr. Jackson said. "The average teen in suburbia says it's boring."
His new book, "Designing Healthy Communities," a companion piece to a coming public television series, says: "When there is nearly nothing within walking distance to interest a young person and it is near-lethal to bicycle, he or she must relinquish autonomy - a capacity every creature must develop just as much as strength and endurance." The book was written with Stacy Sinclair, director of education at the Media Policy Center in Santa Monica, Calif.
"We've engineered physical activity out of children's lives," Dr. Jackson said in an interview. "Only a quarter of the children in California can pass a basic fitness test, and two in seven volunteers for the military can't get in because they're not in good enough physical condition."
The health consequences, he said, are terrifying. Not only are Americans of all ages fatter than ever, but also growing numbers of children are developing diseases once seen only in adults: Type 2 diabetes, heart disease and fatty livers.
Can Our Suburbs Be Saved?
The four-part series that Dr. Jackson developed with the documentary producers Dale Bell and Harry Wiland, to be broadcast in the spring, highlights changes being made in forward-thinking communities - changes that foster better physical and mental health by redesigning the built environment.
"Health happens in neighborhoods, not doctors' offices," Dr. Jackson states in one of the programs.
Metropolitan Atlanta, which is 8,000 square miles and growing and where workers drive an average of 66 miles a day, has suffered the ill effects of high ozone levels, few sidewalks and bike lanes, and crosswalks as much as a mile apart. In what may be the crown jewel in environmental restructuring for better health, the city plans to create an urban paradise from an abandoned railroad corridor over the next two decades, with light rail and 22 miles of walking and biking trails.
In Lakewood, Colo., an abandoned shopping mall (a blight now rampant in suburbia) was converted into housing, businesses and play areas.
Syracuse is converting an old saltworks district into a mixed-income, energy-smart housing and business area, giving residents easy access to work and recreation. The local supermarket, Nojaim's, offers health and nutrition classes and weekly health checks, and a mobile farmers' market serves an area that lacks grocery stores.
Another jewel in environmental restructuring is Elgin, Ill., where an island park was created in the middle of the rejuvenated Fox River and a former Superfund site known as auto dealers' row is now Festival Park, giving families a place to gather for water play, picnics and musical performances. A Bikeway Master Plan will eventually connect all the neighborhoods, and easy access to the river has spurred investment.
"For every dollar the city has spent, we have leveraged that into two or three dollars of private investment through new kinds of buildings, row houses and businesses that have opened because the river has a magnetic quality," said a former mayor of Elgin, Ed Schock. He might have added another economic benefit: the prospect of lower health care costs.
Further information on healthier communities can be found at designinghealthycommunities.org.

        
Dental Exam Went Well? Thank Fluoride
        
Personal Health: Lifelines for People With Hearing Loss

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); OBESITY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); PREPARED FOODS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); NUTRITION (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); AGING (64%); CYCLING (63%) Personal Health; Bicycles and Bicycling; Medicine and Health; Suburbs; Walking; Aging Well

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012



1360 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: More Middle-Income Borrowers Seek Debt Help

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A large credit-counseling agency is seeing more clients with higher incomes and bigger debts. 

 BODY:
More middle-income consumers are seeking help through formal debt-reduction plans, according to an Atlanta-based credit counseling outfit.
In 2007, the average income for clients entering debt-management plans through the agency, CredAbility, was $43,000, and their average credit-card debt was roughly $22,000, said Mark Cole, executive vice president.
Last year, though, their average income was $54,000, and their average credit card debt was $24,000, he said. (The median income in the United States is about $50,000, he noted.)
Mr. Cole said the housing debacle and continued high unemployment rates were probably behind the trend. Middle-income borrowers are more likely to own homes, but they are now unable to borrow against the equity of their houses, because home values have fallen and lending requirements have tightened. They must increasingly turn to credit cards for emergency spending, and so are running up debt on plastic.
And, although it might seem as though borrowers with higher incomes should find it easier to get out of debt, that's not necessarily the case, he said. "Often, what we see is they are much slower to make lifestyle changes than blue-collar or lower-income people," he said. They have become used to driving new cars and having the latest cellphone, so "there are appearances they want to keep up."
The agency compiled the statistics as it enters its busy season. Typically, consumers begin flocking to debt-counseling centers in mid-January, when they start getting the statements showing their holiday credit-card spending. The agency and others like it negotiate lower interest rates with credit card companies, if the borrower agrees to make regular payments to pay off the debt - typically, over three to five years.
Were you shocked by your holiday credit-card statements? How are you planning to pay off the debt?

        
Lemon Makes Digital Copies of Paper Receipts
        
Kidding Ourselves About Our Financial Reality
        
Citibank Adds Money-Tracking Tools to Online Banking
        
Forget Frugality: Focus on Earning More
        
When Utilities Charge for Credit Card Payments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); TRENDS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); INTERNET BANKING (50%) Budgeting; Credit Cards; Debt Counseling; Credit and Debt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012



1361 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: A Renewed Focus on a Financial Crisis Crackdown

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Despite skepticism about a new effort to investigate abusive practices that led to the financial crisis, there is at least a chance we will see the government take a more aggressive stance in pursuing civil charges, according to White Collar Watch. 

 BODY:
In his State of the Union address, President Obama promoted the creation of a new unit to investigate "the abusive lending and packaging of risky mortgages that led to the housing crisis" in order to "hold accountable those who broke the law, speed assistance to homeowners, and help turn the page on an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans." On Friday, Eric H. Holder Jr., the attorney general, announced the formationof the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, which will be staffed by 55 lawyers, agents and analysts, to implement the president's program.
The question is, is this just window dressing, or will the latest focus on pursuing fraud during the financial crisis actually yield new cases? Although skepticism about this new effort has been expressed, there is at least a chance we will see the government take a more aggressive stance in pursuing civil charges, but criminal cases are probably unlikely.
The rhetoric about pursuing cases stemming from the financial crisis is nothing new. In January 2010, Mr. Holder toldthe Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission that "the Justice Department is using every tool at our disposal - including new resources, advanced technologies and communications capabilities, and the very best talent we have - to prevent, prosecute and punish" financial fraud. Yet there have been few high-profile prosecutions since then.
Narrowing the investigative focus to the creation and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities may help push cases forward because the government will not spread itself too thinly by chasing every firm that somehow contributed to the financial crisis. Much like the focus of the Enron Task Force a decade ago, looking at a single target may allow investigators to master the intricacies of a slice of the market to determine whether there is evidence of fraud.
In announcing the formation of the investigative team, Mr. Holder said at a news conferencethat the Justice Department recently issued 11 civil subpoenas to financial institutions - "and you can expect more to follow." 
This is not new ground. Robert Khuzami, director of the Securities and Exchange Commission's enforcement division, acknowledged at that news conference that the S.E.C. had already "issued scores of subpoenas, analyzed more than approximately 25 million pages of documents, dozens and dozens of witnesses, and worked with our industry experts to analyze the terms of these deals and the accuracy of the disclosures made to investors."
The market for residential mortgage-backed securities was the subject of extensive review by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, and the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued an exhaustive report analyzing the practices of a wide range of firms involved in the mortgage market, including Goldman Sachs, Washington Mutual and the credit ratings agencies. The subcommittee referred its report to the Justice Department for possible criminal prosecution last year, but there are no indications of a grand jury investigation of the securities transactions it discussed.
The S.E.C. has filed cases against mortgage firms like Countrywide Credit and New Century Financial, and pursued charges against Goldman and Citigroup related to their sales practices involving securities tied to subprime mortgages. The Federal Housing Finance Agency sued 17 firms that sold residential mortgage-backed securities to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, alleging securities fraudin the packaging of the mortgages.
Could there be a "smoking gun" that would somehow implicate firms or executives in fraudulent practices that has gone undiscovered so far? The short answer is "no," for two reasons: first, the existence of a document that could reveal a grand scheme to defraud is unlikely. Second, the mass of documents accumulated by the government since the financial crisis began probably encompasses just about everything that might be available on the packaging and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities, so someone would have found it by now if it existed.
The paucity of criminal cases indicates the likelihood of new prosecution against firms or individuals for conduct related to the sale of those securities is quite low. The Justice Department has not seen fit to file any charges arising from the S.E.C. cases filed to date, and closed its criminal investigation of Countrywide, one of the largest subprime mortgage lenders, and its former chief executive, Angelo R. Mozilo. 
Evidence in financial fraud cases does not get stronger over time because memories fade and the documents often do not reflect the intent of those involved in a transaction, which is the crucial element in a fraud case. So investigators looking at conduct in 2006 and 2007, when the market for residential mortgage-backed securities was at its peak, are going to confront stale evidence and dim recollections while having to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, a substantial hurdle in any case.
Investigations by the new working group may also run into problems with the statute of limitations. The general federal limitations period is five years for crimes like securities fraud, although it is 10 years for certain offenses in which a financial institution, like a bank or credit union, was the victim. If there was criminal conduct in transactions involving institutional investors, like pension funds and mutual funds, then the passage of time may prevent the filing of charges.
The structure of the working group gives some indication that the focus may be more on the civil side than pursuing criminal charges. The co-chairmen include Mr. Khuzami of the S.E.C.; the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman; and Tony West, the assistant attorney general for the Justice Department's Civil Division. Their leadership role increases the likelihood that global civil settlements can be reached with firms. Even Mr. Holder's announcement of the recently issued subpoenas indicates the investigations may move in that direction because they are civil subpoenas.
Prosecutors are fond of saying that they only go where the evidence takes them. I think the new working group is unlikely to find much new evidence that can support a criminal case. Whether that assuages the public's concern about addressing abuses that contributed to the financial crisis remains an open question.

        
Where Are All the Prosecutions From the Crisis?
        
What to Expect in White-Collar Crimes in 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); GRAND JURY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); WITNESSES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Angelo R. Mozilo; Barack Obama; Enron; Eric H. Holder Jr.; Eric T. Schneiderman; Fannie Mae; Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission; Freddie Mac; Goldman Sachs; Justice Department; Robert Khuzami; Securities and Exchange Commission; Washington Mutual; Holder, Eric H Jr; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Securities and Commodities Violations; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); ANGELO R MOZILO (58%) Holder, Eric H Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1362 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Helping Unlicensed Chinese Contractors by Bridging the Language Gap

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON and JEFFREY E. SINGER


HIGHLIGHT: There are countless Chinese immigrant contractors performing home improvement projects without a city license, according to teachers preparing contractors to take the licensing test. 

 BODY:
If New York City's licensing test for home improvement contractors were given in Chinese and included the finer points of bamboo scaffolding, contractors like Gary Lin, 42, of Queens would breathe much easier taking it.
Mr. Lin worked on bamboo platforms while working in construction in Changle, his home city in the Chinese province of Fujian. Now, despite speaking very limited English, he is trying to start a legitimate home improvement company in Flushing, which is rife with unlicensed contractors.
And since the city does not allow bamboo scaffolding - and currently does not offer the test in Chinese - Mr. Lin found himself in a new class with about 20 other Chinese immigrants one recent Saturday preparing for the city-administered test for a home improvement contractor license, a requirement for contracting with a homeowner to do work like repairs, renovations and remodeling.
The class, offered by the Queens Economic Development Corporation, is aimed at familiarizing contractors with the test, which is administered by the city's Department of Consumer Affairs and consists of 30 multiple choice questions. It is offered in English, Spanish, Korean and Bengali.
Starting in February, the test will also be available in Chinese, city officials said.
To Nicholas Hardie, who teaches Mr. Lin's class in Mandarin, the change is long overdue. The classes, which cost $100, are part of a pilot program to explore ways of addressing challenges faced by immigrant entrepreneurs. Mr. Hardie, a Wisconsin native, said he believed that there were an enormous number of Chinese immigrant contractors in Queens working without city home improvement licenses.
"A main reason is the language barrier," said Mr. Hardie, who said he had arranged with Department of Consumer Affairs officials to take groups of students from two of his classes for the test next month.
He said that his students would be ready to take either the English or the Chinese test, and that he was helping them with the application process, which, among other things, demands proof of liability and disability insurance, and workman's compensation insurance.
In response to a listing for the class , 78 Chinese immigrant contractors inquired, Mr. Hardie said. But many opted not to take the class or the exam because they thought the language barrier would make passing the test impossible. Of the 37 who registered, most have either been working as employees or have been working for cash under the table, he said.
Burton Hung, a developer and licensed contractor in Queens who volunteered to help Mr. Hardie teach the class, said that oftentimes a Chinese immigrant contractor would save money to buy a van and tools and then hire day laborers.
"If you don't speak English, you can always hire people to speak English, so you can work outside the Chinese community," said Mr. Hung, who worked in construction as a child and after immigrating to the United States started as a small contractor and eventually earned a master's degree in business. But unlicensed contractors have to dodge authorities, and they often get bargained down on prices. And they find it much harder to work under the heavy scrutiny in Manhattan for higher-paying jobs.
At a class on Jan. 21, about 6 of the 20 students could speak some English.
Mr. Hardie explained to them how to collect a deposit and give a written estimate, how to draw up a contract and how to legally cancel one. He covered the finer points of certificates of occupancy and charging sales tax, as well as complying with sanitary, fire and health regulations.
He handed out Chinese translations of the contractor's exam and license information, as well as translations he made of previous tests.
Mr. Hardie said that, in the past, some contractors who spoke no English still managed to pass the English-language test by memorizing earlier test questions and also by training themselves to recognize key words, phrases and numbers. Adopting this technique, he taught students how to spot such clues.
For example, the mention of $200 in a question most likely refers to the rule that a license is not necessary for jobs paying less than that amount. And the number six in a question may refer to the number of years a contractor must keep contracts on file. The number three may very likely refer to the number of days a contractor must wait between signing a contract and beginning work.
On the subject of contracts, one worker, Kevin Zhang, 36, who immigrated to Flushing four years ago, held up his phone and asked if the contracts could simply be recorded, instead of written. No, Mr. Hardie said.
One of the other Chinese immigrant students was Rose Lu, who owns United Structure Solution, a metal shop in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that has many large contracts and 10 full-time employees. Ms. Lu said she wanted a home improvement license in order to do interior work at a hotel because the license covers lodging establishments.
Ms. Lu said many unlicensed Chinese contractors in Brooklyn and Queens operate as fly-by-night operations.
"A van can bring in a lot of laborers, but there's no address, no sense of responsibility," she said, adding that more licensing would help legitimize things.
"The more people who know what they're doing, the better," she said.

        
The Lam Family of Ludlow Street
        
Police Demographics Unit Casts Shadows From Past
        
8 Charged in Death of Fellow American Soldier
        
Readers Respond to the Plight of Mexican Students
        
For an Immigrant, a Shrinking Business and a Maze of Obstacles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOME REMODELING (93%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (93%); FOUNDATION & EXTERIOR CONTRACTORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (85%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SPECIALTY TRADE CONTRACTORS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (66%) contractors; immigrants; Building (Construction); Tests and Examinations; Flushing (NYC); Business; City Hall; Housing & Economy; Immigration

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%) Flushing (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1363 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Slap Shot)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Blue Jackets Awarded All-Star Game as Fans' Frustration Grows

BYLINE: MELISSA HOPPERT


HIGHLIGHT: N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman announced Saturday that the struggling Blue Jackets would host next year's All-Star Game on Jan. 27 in Columbus, Ohio. The announcement coincided with about 250 fans protesting Blue Jackets management outside Nationwide Arena in the wake of the team's dismal play. 

 BODY:
From the hometown fans cheering wildly for the Senators' representatives (and heartily booing the Maple Leafs') to the awestruck players videotaping the performance of the Toronto-born rapper Drake, Canada's capital city of Ottawa provided a nearly perfect backdrop for this past weekend's All-Star festivities.
So it might have come as a surprise to some when N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman announced Saturday that the struggling Blue Jacketswould host next year's All-Star Game on Jan. 27 in Ohio's capital, Columbus. The announcement coincided with about 250 fans protesting Blue Jackets management outside Nationwide Arena in the wake of the team's dismal play.
The Blue Jackets (13-30-6) entered the All-Star break with the N.H.L.'s worst record and had only one representative in Ottawa, the rookie forward Ryan Johansen. Three weeks ago, Coach Scott Arniel was fired and replaced on an interim basis by the assistant Todd Richards.
"I think that we have a lot of passionate season-ticket holders who have been there since Day 1, but I think there's a lot of people that are getting frustrated because we're not showing a winning product," Blue Jackets forward R.J. Umberger said. "If it ever happens, where we win consistently, the place would be sold out every night here, I have no doubt about it."
The Blue Jackets were founded as an expansion team in 2000 and qualified for the Stanley Cup playoffs in 2009. They hosted the 2007 N.H.L. entry draft, drawing a capacity crowd on the first day.
"We held the draft there not too many years ago, and the city and the Blue Jackets organization was terrific in terms of hosting all the events and making us feel at home," Bettman told the NHL Network on Saturday. "The facilities are there, the fan support is there, they have a terrific organization, the arena's great, all the factors that you need to build the event are in place in Columbus for us."
Umberger, who played from 2000 to 2003 at nearby Ohio State, whose hockey team recently reached No. 2 in the rankings, said that the city had embraced the sport with open arms.
"I think hockey is growing in Columbus a lot more," Umberger said. "If the Blue Jackets become a playoff team, it's going to get to a whole new standard in Columbus. I think that hockey is trickling down through all the kids and everything. It should be a city that's known for its hockey now, not just football."
The 2013 All-Star weekend is expected to generate an estimated $12 million in visitor spending, the Greater Columbus Sports Commission said. The construction of Nationwide Arena, which holds 18,500 for hockey and features a glass atrium and exposed brick, spurred the development of the surrounding area. Now known as the Arena District, the area includes bars, restaurants and a theater and is nestled between two other Columbus destinations, the Short North and German Village neighborhoods.
"The Columbus Blue Jackets are one of the nation's best examples of sports acting as a major economic catalyst," Columbus Mayor Michael B. Coleman said in a statement. "When Nationwide Arena was built in 2000, it was the centerpiece of Columbus' Arena District, which has revitalized our downtown and our city."
Despite the Blue Jackets' recent woes, Umberger has not given up on the team or its fans.
"When we made the playoffs that one year, you could feel the buzz around the town, and the city was incredible," said Umberger, who scored the first playoff goal in team history. "The Arena District was hopping, and it was so much fun.
"It's been a hard time to get back to the playoffs for the Blue Jackets, so it seems like a distant memory. But I hope to someday score a lot more for the Blue Jackets in the playoffs."

        
Rangers' Gaborik Is M.V.P. of All-Star Game
        
Rangers' Girardi Rises From Free Agent to All-Star
        
Monday Morning Skate: Playoff Races, Key Injuries and Childbirth via Twitter
        
Blue Jackets Attendance an Ongoing Problem
        
The Morning Skate: Blues Chemistry, Stamkos's Star and Nash's Minus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); RANKINGS (60%) Columbus Blue Jackets; n.h.l. all-star game; Bettman, Gary; All Star Games; Hockey, Ice; National Hockey League; Ohio State University; Columbus (Ohio)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); OTTAWA SENATORS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%) Columbus Blue Jackets; National Hockey League; Ohio State University

PERSON: Bettman, Gary

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (99%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) OHIO, USA (99%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (93%) Columbus (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1364 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Federal Pay vs. Private Sector Compensation

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: Those who maintain that federal workers make more than their private-sector counterparts and those who contend the opposite can both find support in a Congressional Budget Office study. 

 BODY:
Are federal workers really overpaid? 
Public sector pay is a subject of long-simmering dispute - examined in previousposts on this blog. Many right-leaning organizations argue that federal workers make more than their private-sector counterparts and that the disparity is growing. Many left-leaning research groups and labor groups argue that the idea that Washington overpays workers is a myth, and that superficial disparities in compensation are due to public employees' greater tendency to have advanced degrees and to be older.
Which side is right? In a report released Monday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office answered: both. Here is the relevant chart:
Less-educated federal workers make a bit more than their private-sector counterparts and receive more generous benefits. Workers with a complete or incomplete college education or a master's degree tend to make about the same amount, again with more generous benefits. But highly educated federal workers earn less than their peers in the private sector. 
The Congressional Budget Office went further than some other studies in ensuring a comparison of apples to apples - controlling for a worker's education, years of experience, occupation, neighborhood, age, sex, ethnicity and immigration status, among other characteristics. 

        
Gingrich and the Destruction of Congressional Expertise
        
Growing Economies, Stagnant Wages
        
Which Americans Are Most Generous, and to Whom
        
Can Tax Cuts Pay for Themselves?
        
Do Congress and the White House Deserve an AA+ Rating?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (93%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); ETHNICITY (72%); TAX LAW (70%); IMMIGRATION (51%) Congressional Budget Office; government workers; pay; Government Employees; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%) Congressional Budget Office

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1365 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Tariffs on Chinese Solar Panels

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: A preliminary finding by the Commerce Department suggests that if penalties are levied, they could be retroactive. 

 BODY:
The Commerce Department is scheduled to decide in a month whether Chinese solar panels should be subject to an import tariff, after fielding a complaint from domestic manufacturers that the Chinese are illegally subsidizing their solar export market. The department has not said how it will rule. 
But on Monday it issued a finding stating that the domestic manufacturers were facing "critical circumstances," which means that if it does decide to favor imposing duties, they could, in theory, be retroactive to 90 days before its decision.
The domestic manufacturers, led by SolarWorld, an Oregon company, welcomed the statement, saying that the department had taken "expedited action against a massive, evasive surge of Chinese solar cell and panel imports ahead of Commerce's first preliminary determination on duties.'' 
But the department's finding might not mean that tariffs are imminent or that they will be retroactive, said one trade expert, David M. Spooner, a former assistant secretary for import administration. For the tariffs to apply, he said, a second part of the government, the United States International Trade Commission, must agree, and often it does not.
At SolarWorld, Ben Santarris, a spokesman, said he thought the Commerce Department was "putting importers on notice, that they will be held accountable retroactively for any preliminary duties that are imposed.'' 
In fact, importers are now faced with a difficult business situation because they are selling a product whose cost to them might turn out to be double or triple what they paid the Chinese factory. 
But the issue is unfair subsidies, which is different from "critical circumstances." The definition of "critical circumstances" is based on an increase in imports of 15 percent in a three-month period. It is not based on prices, although, of course, competitive prices are probably required to sustain an increase in imports. 
The Commerce Department is analyzing charges brought by the domestic manufacturers that China uses 30 different subsidy programs, with names like Funds for Outward Expansion of Industries in Guangdong Province, and Export Guarantees and Insurance for Green Technology. 
The Commerce Department did say that it had "reasonable cause to believe or suspect" that the alleged subsidies were "inconsistent" with World Trade Organization rules. 
The domestic manufacturers have called for duties of 50 to 250 percent and asked for retroactive duties to block the possibility of a flood of new imports in anticipation of duties. China already holds half the American market.
In other action on Monday, a coalition of companies that sell and install solar panels released a study predicting that the imposition of tariffs could cost the United States about 60,000 jobs in the next few years.According to the study, by the Brattle Group, for each megawatt of new solar capacity installed in this country, there are 30 jobs, but only three of those are in manufacturing. 
Jigar Shah, the president of the group, called the Coalition for Affordable Solar Energy, said it would be "devastating for American workers" if the American manufacturers prevailed. 
Mark P. Berkman, an economist who was a lead author of the study, said that if the duty was 100 percent, 16,900 to 49,600 jobs could be lost, although he acknowledged that the projection assumed continued rapid growth in the solar business. In any case, he said, "these are not trivial numbers."
Many of those projected job losses are outside the solar industry, he said. If the prices of solar cells were to rise and people still bought them, they would have less money to spend on everything else and the economy would slow down, according to his analysis. 
Solar panels make up about a quarter of the cost of installing a solar system on a home roof and about 40 percent of the cost of a utility-scale system. (Utility systems are more efficient to install, since they do not require separate engineering and design for multiple small systems.) 
By Mr. Berkman's calculation, a 20-megawatt solar system installed by a utility would cost $62.6 million without the duties and $68 million with them.
But the manufacturers' group said in a statement that there was more to this than the balance of jobs. China, it said, is "breaking U.S. laws and international treaties that the world community has deemed essential to preventing government-sponsored destruction of foreign industries.''
And if China established a monopoly, the group predicted, it would raise prices later. 

        
On Our Radar: A Beached Whale
        
On Our Radar: Senator Seeks Ban on 'Frankenfish'
        
As China Advances, Solar Start-Ups Strategize
        
Green Jobs Slowly Ticking Upward
        
Racing Up (and Down) the Performance Index

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (97%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); SOLAR ENERGY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); POLITICS (83%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%) China; Commerce Department; duties; economy; job losses; solar panels; tariffs; Customs (Tariff); International Trade and World Market; Labor and Jobs; Solar Energy; United States Economy; SolarWorld AG; United States International Trade Commission; World Trade Organization; United States; Alternative Energy; Business; Energy Business; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%) Commerce Department; SolarWorld AG; United States International Trade Commission; World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1366 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2038 words

HEADLINE: Can a Town Divided Against Itself Stand?

BYLINE: FRANK JACOBS


HIGHLIGHT: The strange history of cities split in two by international borders. 

 BODY:
Abraham Lincoln, what does know? A house divided against itself stand, and will do so for decades, no sweat. Berlin, Nicosia, Jerusalem - heck, even Kansas City: all are cities that have been split in two by borders. All are still around. But if being split down the middle doesn't mean the end of the world, it ain't fun either. A house divided is a house of pain, with degrees of inconvenience varying from administrative annoyance to frequent lethality. 
Nothing in human geography is so sensitive, so interconnected as the urban fabric. Cities are places of exchange, where people come to trade skills and goods [1]. Which is why borders are usually willed elsewhere: down the middle of rivers, following the tops of mountain ranges, straight through deserts. Generally anywhere bereft of human presence.
The urban border, cutting through neighborhoods and city blocks, closing off streets, metro lines and other traffic arteries, is a glaring exception to this Boundary Rule Number One [2]. 
Then again, it is so widespread - from Laredo/Nuevo Laredo to Gorizia/Nova Gorica [3]that another general principle must be at work. Back to the human in "human geography": where people meet is also where they argue; where they work is also where they fight. Where they get together is also where they feel the greatest need to stay apart. If, as Sartre said, "hell is other people," then cities perhaps are a bit like the eighth and ninth circle of Dante's Inferno, but with better evening entertainment options.
The ideal city is a cosmopolis, a magnet thriving on raw talent and naked ambition, disinterested by the baggage people bring; its counterpart in reality, however, is more like a centrifuge, separating urbanites into neighborhoods according to their race, class, religion and ethnicity. 
Take the city grid of Nicosia [4], the divided capital of Cyprus. The map shows the city center girdled by a perfectly circular and symmetric set of city walls. These three-mile-long fortifications, built by the Venetians in the 16th century, were designed to defend the city against the outside world. 
Superimposed on that circular defense system is the Green Line, currently dividing the city (and the entire island) in two. The city walls, with their 11 imposing bastions, may be more impressive than the makeshift border that runs along do-it-yourself barricades and the facades of empty houses, but they have lost all meaning and function - except for those bits where the Green Line and the city walls actually coincide. 
The Green Line has cracked the Venetian fortification like a fragile egg. The city, conceived to be one and indivisible, is now an odd couple, divided into two bickering halves. What follows such a separation is a geopolitical version of schizophrenia, repeated in other divided cities elsewhere. Each half of the city pretends to be the "real" one, the entire city in itself. The other half's legitimacy, even its existence, must be diminished, if not outright denied. 
That sounds like the synopsis of a science fiction novel, and it is: in "The City & the City," China Mieville sets a noir thriller in the pixilated, intertwined cities of Ul Qoma and Beszel, each of which denies the very existence of the other. (Urban doppelgangers are a theme in in Mieville's work: in his earlier novel "Un Lun Dun," he provides names for the phantom twins of real-life cities, including Parisn't, No York, Lost Angeles and Sans Francisco.) 
Clearly, divided cities provide a rich seam of material for writers of a certain type of fiction [5]. But reality doesn't always need the embellishment of literature. Consider the Baltic twin town of Valka/Valga [6]. Today a small town split by the Estonian-Latvian border, in the 15th century it was the seat of the Livonian Confederation [7], a long-forgotten state comprising most of present-day Latvia and Estonia. When the latter two states used the confusion of the Russian Revolution to proclaim their independence, they had to decide what to do with this ethnically mixed town that sat right on their border. Instead of fighting over it, they simply split it in two [8], though confusion reigned over how, exactly, it should be administered. 
When the Soviets took over the Baltics again at the start of World War II, the border became an internal irrelevance, but it resurfaced as an international issue - and drain on the local economy - after Baltic independence in 1991. Fortunately, in 2007 Estonia and Latvia, now both members of the European Union, acceded to the Schengen Zone [9], which essentially eliminated the border in all but name and geography. The two halves of the formerly unified town are now officially twinned and something of a tourist draw; it's almost like one of those tearful reunions of long-lost relatives you see on daytime TV. 
If Valka/Valga is daytime TV, Berlin's recent history is positively operatic. At the Potsdam Conference in 1945, Germany as a whole and Berlin in particular were divided into four occupation zones to be administered by the Allied powers (the Soviet Union, France, Britain and the United States). Because the cold war so quickly succeeded the hot one that had been World War II, a comprehensive peace settlement was never reached, and temporary occupation zones congealed into satellite states. 
Impromptu borderlines hardened into an Iron Curtain and, in 1961, the Berlin Wall. The absurdity of militarizing a peacetime border through a major European metropolis is illustrated by what happened to West Berlin's half-dozen exclaves, small plots of land that lay just outside the city limits. Mere administrative anomalies before the partition of Berlin, these exclaves became potential international trouble spots. The Third World War might well have started at Steinstucken [10]. 
This little hamlet once was a mere afterthought of Berlin stuck in rural Babelsberg, a suburb of Berlin's next-door city Potsdam. After 1948, it became a western thorn in the side of the East Germans. After 1961, its few dozen inhabitants were surrounded by their own private version of the Berlin Wall. The United States offered military (and moral) support by establishing a helicopter-supplied outpost. Eventually, an exchange of territory provided the exclave with a "land link" to Berlin's "mainland." War was avoided, of course, and Steinstucken and the other exclaves survived. Indeed, almost a quarter century after the fall of the Berlin Wall, these peculiar arrangements are still visible on a map of Berlin's city borders. 
When the wall fell in 1989, the former German chancellor Willy Brandt captured the mood, and framed the task ahead, by quoting: "Now grows together what belongs together" [11]. Visiting Berlin these days, the borderologist would be hard pressed to find traces of the wall except where it has been preserved. Berlin has indeed grown together. 
It'll still be a while before that happens in Nicosia: the animosity on both sides is live enough to still be lethal. Seven years after the opening of the Berlin Wall, two Greek Cypriots died a few days apart when both sides confronted each other on separate occasions inside the buffer zone. 
Same story in Mitrovica, a Kosovan town divided by the river Ibar into a Serbian north and an Albanian south. Troops from NATO maintain the peace, but occasional flare-ups of violence are a reminder of the often deceptive nature of peace and quiet in this part of the world. The city's division replicates the broader Kosovan conflict in miniature, and in reverse. Kosovo, a majority-Albanian province of Serbia, tore itself away from Serbian control in 1999, with a little help from NATO. The Serbian-majority northern tip of Kosovo, where Mitrovica is situated, then subtracted itself from Kosovo-Albanian control and refused to recognize Kosovo's subsequent independence. That stance is in turn not recognized by Kosovo, and by the international community that supports Kosovo's independence. 
Complicated? We're only just getting to Jerusalem. It'll be a while before that city is Berlinified, even though it has been un-divided since Israeli troops conquered the eastern half of the city (plus the West Bank and the Gaza Strip) in the 1967 War. The Holy City had been divided since Israel's war of independence, when its eastern part (including the Old City) came under Jordanian control. Until 1967, the Green Line [12] meant barbed wire, concrete fencing and a border crossing at the Mandelbaum Gate - providing this Middle-Eastern city with a cold-war-like setting more associated with the Europe of that time [13]. 
But in Jerusalem, unification has not equaled pacification. The mainly Arab east of the city has been annexed to the mainly Jewish rest of Jerusalem. Palestinians resist Israeli takeovers of houses in the east, and insist their part of the city should be the eventual capital of an independent Palestine. But how can this be achieved without an extension of Israel's security wall right through the city? In a place where there's no middle ground, where you're either from one side or the other, it's hard to see how a case can be made that both parts of the city belong together, and should grow together. Even Willy Brandt would agree.
 And generally live in expensive, shoebox-sized apartments. But let's not get into that. 
 "National borders should be placed as thoughtfully, conveniently and inconspicuously as electrical wiring." Just think of the mess if the work needs to be redone. 
 On the American-Mexican and Italian-Slovenian borders, respectively. 
 The Cyprus border was discussed earlier in this series. See "Frozen in Time," Dec. 19, 2011.
 China Mieville's work is often classed under science fiction, but he prefers the term "weird fiction." 
 Valka is the Latvian (western) part of the city, Valga the Estonian (eastern) part. Formerly the town was also known under its German name, Walk. 
 The Livonian language, related to Finnish and Estonian, is effectively extinct. In 2010, one to five native speakers were reported (and 30 who spoke it as a second language). A later name for one of the many manifestations of Livonia as a state was Terra Mariana, in English: Maryland. 
 After adjudication by the British commissioner for the Baltics, Sir Stephen Tallents. Few people know that the Brits even had had a hand in Baltic border-drawing. Tallents is more remembered for his subsequent P.R. job at the Empire Marketing Board. 
 See also the previous post in this series: "The World's Most Exclusive Condominium," Jan. 23, 2012. 
 For more on the division of Berlin, and its implication for the mapping of the city by the East German authorities, see "Then We Take Berlin: When East Ate West" (Strange Maps No. 513). For more on the Steinstucken exclave, see "Exclaves of West Berlin (4): Steinstucken and Wuste Mark" (Strange Maps No. 151), which also references earlier posts on other such exclaves.
 Always cited as: "." On the night of Nov. 10, 1989 itself, Brandt used a slightly different phrasing, even more clearly lifted from the early 20th-century erotic bestseller "The Life Story of a Viennese Whore, As Told By Herself," purportedly written by Josephine Mutzenbacher. Experts now believe that to have been a pseudonym for the Austrian writer Felix Salten (1869-1945), most famous as the author of "Bambi," the book that gave us the movie. 
 Like the line in Cyprus, and a few others. This line was so called after the ink used to demarcate Jordanian positions on an armistice map (the Israeli positions were marked in red). In 2004, the Belgian-Mexican artist Francis Alys walked the former armistice border, marking it with a bucket of dripping green paint. The audiovisual recording of this peripatetic artwork is called "The Green Line (Sometimes doing something poetic can become political and sometimes doing something political can become poetic)." 
 Like in divided Berlin, Jerusalem had an exclave situation going on: from 1948 to 1967, Mount Scopus (the site of Hebrew University and a Jewish hospital) was Israeli territory on the Jordanian side of the armistice line. 

        
Frozen in Time
        
The World's Most Exclusive Condominium
        
Where Is Europe?
        
Fighting Over Parsley
        
A Soldier in the West

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); MOUNTAINS (70%); CENTRIFUGES (63%); RELIGION (50%) berlin; Cyprus; Geography; jerusalem; Kosovo; Latvia; Texas; Politics and Government; Berlin (Germany); Jerusalem (Israel); Borderlines

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) GERMANY (94%); CYPRUS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOSOVO (92%); LATVIA (90%) Berlin (Germany); Cyprus; Jerusalem (Israel); Kosovo; Latvia; Texas

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1367 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2439 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
U.S. Banks Tally Their Exposure to Europe's Debt Maelstrom | Five large American banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, have more than $80 billion of exposure to Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece, the most economically stressed nations in the euro currency zone, according to a New York Times analysis of the banks' financial disclosures.
But these banks have made extensive use of a type of financial insurance, credit-default swaps, to help them offset any losses that might occur if defaults swamped the five troubled nations.
Using these swaps, along with other measures, the five banks have cut their theoretical exposure to the troubled countries by $30 billion, to $50 billion. The analysis also shows that Citigroup has the greatest percentage of its exposure potentially protected, at 47 percent, while Bank of America has bought the least protection, at 12 percent.
DealBook 

        
Greece Nears Deal With Creditors | Bondholders have agreed to significant concessions over the coupon that new bonds would carry, The New York Times reports, citing banks and officials who were not authorized to speak publicly.
NEW YORK TIMES
        
European Leaders to Prescribe Growth | According to a draft of a European Union summit meeting communique, Europe's leaders have come to the conclusion that austerity alone won't solve the Continent's problems, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
DEAL NOTES
The Case of the Angry Jurors | Two defense attorneys tell New York magazine about a recent phenomenon in white collar cases: jurors looking to settle scores.
NEW YORK MAGAZINE
Davos, in the Style of Occupy Wall Street | The protesters of Occupy W.E.F., short for World Economic Forum, framed the big issues of the day with the same conviction as those in the Davos conference center.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Exxon Mobil to Sell Its Japanese Arm for $3.9 Billion | Exxon Mobil said on Sunday that it has agreed to sell its Japanese subsidiary to TonenGeneral Sekiyu, a major refinery operator in Japan, for about $3.9 billion.
DealBook 
ABB to Buy Thomas & Betts for $3.9 Billion | ABB of Switzerland is near a deal to buy Thomas & Betts, an American maker of electrical connectors, for about $4 billion in cash, a person briefed on the matter said on Sunday.
DealBook 
Deal-Making Gets a Slow Start | The value of mergers and acquisitions announced so far this year has been at the lowest level since 2003, with $102.9 billion of deals announced globally, according to S&P Capital IQ, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
R.B.S. Nears Sale of Corporate Broker | The Royal Bank of Scotland has almost finalized a deal to sell its Hoare Govett business to Jefferies, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Fujifilm Proposes Tie-Up With Olympus | Fujifilm Holdings said it had made an offer of a strategic partnership with Olympus, as shareholders of the scandal-plagued camera maker push for a major investment, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Italy's Unipol in Four-Way Merger Deal | Unipol, the Italian insurer, agreed to a plan to rescue its rival Fondiaria, in a deal that would create one of the country's largest insurers, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
F.T.C. Sues to Block Omnicare's Bid for PharMerica | The Federal Trade Commission sued Omnicare, seeking to block the pharmacy service provider's hostile $441 million bid for PharMerica.
DealBook 
Delta Explores Possible Bid for US Airways | Delta is exploring a possible bid to purchase US Airways, according to a person familiar with the matter. But Delta has not yet approached its smaller rival and it may decide against making an offer.
DealBook 
Roche Begins Tender Offer for Illumina | Roche said on Friday that it had begun its unsolicited tender offer of $44.50 a share in cash for the shares of Illumina.
DealBook 
Kerkorian Eyes a Movie Deal | Kirk Kerkorian, the billionaire investor who repeatedly bought and sold Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, is now looking to buy a film studio, production company or other entertainment business, according to an executive at his investment vehicle, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Royal Bank of Scotland Chief Waives Bonus | Stephen Hester, chief executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland, has decided to turn down his bonus after coming under heavy pressure from British politicians.
DealBook 
Parsons Said to Consider Stepping Down | Richard D. Parsons, the Citigroup chairman who led the bank through the financial crisis, is expected to decide by early March whether he will leave his post, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Citigroup to Close Prop Trading Desk | The bank is shutting its equity principal strategies desk, which made trades using the firm's own capital, the firm announced in an internal memo. Most of the desk's employees will leave Citigroup after Feb. 6.
DealBook 
Citigroup Said to Cut Investment Bank Bonuses | Employees of the firm's investment banking division are seeing bonuses fall by an average of 30 percent, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unnamed person briefed on the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America Said to Shake Up Investment Bank | Christian Meissner, a relative newcomer at the bank who was named a co-head of the investment banking division last April, has now been appointed sole head of that unit, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Lloyds Said to Plan Cuts to Management | Antonio Horta-Osorio, the chief executive of the Lloyds Banking Group, is expected to cut the ranks of his top executives to 10 from 14, The Financial Times reports, citing unnamed people familiar with his plans.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Questions Surround Nomura's Wholesale Unit | After the departure of Jasjit Bhattal, unnamed executives of the Japanese firm admit in private that the bank has yet to outline a clear strategy to gain market share, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Firms Adjust to Shrinking Revenue | Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Citigroup made some of the largest cuts to compensation for the year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Sachs Executives Get Access to Stock Awards | Top executives of the Wall Street bank received previously restricted stock awards, worth a combined $47.7 million, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
S.&P. Lowers Outlook on Jefferies and Cantor | Standard & Poors lowered its outlook on the Jefferies Group and Cantor Fitzgerald to negative from stable, saying the European debt crisis could weigh on their profits.
DealBook 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Private Equity Trade Group to Name Permanent Chief | The Private Equity Growth Capital Council plans to formally appoint Steve Judge as its chief executive on Monday, making him its permanent leader after having been interim chief since last summer.
DealBook 
Another View: Private Equity Creates Value | The vice president of research at the Private Equity Growth Capital Council contends that the research on private equity is exhaustive and conclusive.
DealBook 
Carlyle's Middle East Head Departs | Walid Musallam, who joined the private equity firm in November 2006, is leaving his post as the head of the Middle East and North Africa fund, after a disagreement over strategy, Reuters reports, citing unnamed people.
REUTERS
TPG to Buy Real Estate Company | TPG Capital has agreed to buy Flagler, a Florida real estate company, from the Fortress Investment Group, in a $1.2 billion deal, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Terra Firma Nears Deal for Gardening Company | Terra Firma Capital Partners is near a deal to buy the Garden Centre Group, a British company that offers gardening products and advice, The Sunday Times reported, according to Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Deutsche Bank to Start Damaged Asset Fund | The German lender is preparing to start a fund to buy illiquid hedge fund holdings that have failed to recover, and is said to be aiming to raise $500 million, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
More Fines in Greenlight Insider Case in Britain | Greenlight Capital's former compliance officer and a JPMorgan Cazenove trader were fined in connection with Greenlight's sale of shares in a British pub operator more than two years ago.
DealBook 
BlueCrest Said to Plan Feeder Fund | BlueCrest Capital Management, the European hedge fund firm, aims to raise more than $235 million for a fund to feed into the firm's main BlueTrend fund, Reuters reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
REUTERS
Hedge Funds Increase Commodity Bets | Combined bullish positions on commodities rose by 13 percent in the week that ended Jan. 24, to the highest level in two months, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Buzz on a Facebook I.P.O. Grows Louder | Facebook may file a prospectus for its initial public offering of stock as early as this week. The company is still hammering out a final date, but it is expected to submit its filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission within the next three weeks.
Bits Blog 
The Winners in Facebook's I.P.O. | The Wall Street Journal looks at the venture funds, like Accel Partners, that are poised to reap massive returns on the social network site's I.P.O.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
For Facebook, the Party Already Happened | Big investors have already made a killing off Facebook, potentially leaving little left over for others, Reuters BreakingViews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sunshine Oilsands Aims to Raise $600 Million in I.P.O. | Sunshine Oilsands, a Canadian energy company with major shareholders that are controlled by the Chinese government, plans to float shares in Hong Kong, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
SeaDrill to Delay I.P.O. of Brazil Unit | SeaDrill, the Norwegian energy equipment company, said it plans to delay an initial offering of its Brazilian business, as it looks to change its corporate structure, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
The Strongest V.C. Funds Thrive | While venture capital fund-raising has increased in the last two years, the improvement has been skewed heavily to the best performers, as the number of funds raising more money declined to 139 last year from 203 in 2009, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
European V.C. Deals Hit 10-Year Low | Venture capital investments on the Continent declined by a fifth last year, The Telegraph reports.
TELEGRAPH
In Davos, Technology Moves Center Stage | Tech and social media played a central role at Davos, after a year that included social-media-fueled protests, Internet privacy legislation and billions of dollars in technology stock offerings, Nick Bilton writes in the Disruptions column on Bits.
DealBook 
Party Site Raises $5.3 Million | HouseParty.com, which helps people throw parties sponsored by brands, raised the funds in a round led by Acadia Woods Partners, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former UBS Trader Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud | A former UBS trader, Kweku M. Adoboli, pleaded not guilty on Monday to charges of fraud and false accounting that led to a $2.3 billion trading loss at UBS last year.
DealBook 
Insider Jury May Hear a Top Aide at Berkshire | Ajit Jain could be a witness in the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, a former director at Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble who is charged with leaking information about those companies.
DealBook 
Justice Department Official to Join Davis Polk Law Firm | Greg D. Andres was deputy assistant attorney general for the criminal division and spent nearly a decade at the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn.
DealBook 
Perelman Loses Court Battle Over $16 Million Suit | Ronald O. Perelman, the billionaire financier, lost a bitter legal battle as a federal jury decided that his company must pay $16 million to Donald Drapkin, a former business associate.
DealBook 
Congress To Hear From MF Global's Former Risk Chiefs | The congressional inquiry into the collapse of MF Global and its misuse of customer money is set to intensify next week, when a House committee hears testimony from the top executives once responsible for monitoring risk at the brokerage firm.
DealBook 
Freddie's Bets Against Homeowners | Traders at Freddie Mac placed large bets that homeowners would stay trapped in expensive mortgages, as another arm of the company made it more difficult for homeowners to get out of such mortgages, ProPublica reports.
PROPUBLICA
F.B.I. Looks Into Adviser on Chinese Reverse Mergers | The New York Global Group has helped bring Chinese companies public in the United States through reverse mergers, or buying the shell of defunct American companies that had been publicly listed.
DealBook 
Banks Seek to Exempt Overseas Swaps From Dodd-Frank | If the lobbying push is successful, more than half of the derivatives trading business of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley could fall outside the reach of Dodd-Frank, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
New Investigation Group Issues Subpoenas | The Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, part of the of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, issued civil subpoenas to 11 financial companies, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
A Word of Advice for Federal Investigators | The new task force charged with investigating mortgage abuses would do well to look to private lawsuits as a guide, writes Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Lehman Prepares First Payment for Creditors | Lehman Brothers Holdings plans to distribute between $8.1 billion and $10.7 billion to creditors from its cash holdings, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
White House Seeks to Expand Mortgage Program | The Obama administration announced changes to the Home Affordable Modification Program, including tripling incentives to banks, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
S.E.C. Commissioners Said to Demand Greater Say in Choosing Watchdog | Commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission asked for a larger role in selecting the successor to H. David Kotz, the agency's internal watchdog, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Top Central Banker Urges No Delay to Basel III | Jaime Caruana, general manager of the Bank for International Settlements, says that he was against extending the phase-in period for new global banking regulations.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); JURY TRIALS (86%); MERGERS (85%); WIRING DEVICE MFG (84%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); EURO (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (67%); DIVESTITURES (67%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (64%); LAWYERS (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); ABB LTD (81%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (81%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); THOMAS & BETTS CORP (52%); TONENGENERAL SEKIYU KK (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); ABJA (FRA) (81%); ABJ (FRA) (81%); ABBN (SWX) (81%); ABB (STO) (81%); ABB (NYSE) (81%); ABB (NSE) (81%); RBS (NYSE) (60%); RBS (LSE) (60%); RBS (AMS) (60%); GS (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); 5012 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (81%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (88%); PORTUGAL (88%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1368 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: The Pro's Tip Sheet: Adam Smith on Florida's Political Environment

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: A list of must-reads from Adam C. Smith, political editor of The Tampa Bay Times, for understanding Florida's political environment a day before the state's G.O.P. primary. 

 BODY:
"We're not just The Villages," opined reporters for The Tampa Bay Times in a list of unconventional campaign stops for Republican candidates. Florida is so much more than retirees and snowbirds (though they are a big part of the equation, to be sure). It's the most populous primary state yet, mired in a housing bust after a population boom that drove the latest rotation of its exaggerated economic cycles. Its political campaigns are primarily waged over the air, while developers, farmers and corporations wage constant battles over the water, be they the Everglades or Florida's 1,197 miles of coastline.
To help us get the lay of the land on the eve of Florida's Jan. 31 G.O.P. primary, we asked Adam C. Smith (@adamsmithtimes) for a primer. Even if you haven't been reading his coverage as political editor of The Tampa Bay Times (formerly known as The St. Petersburg Times) since 2001, you may recognize him from the Republican debate last week in Tampa, where he questioned the candidates. His must-reads are below.
You can take this list to go, by the way, on The New York Times's Election 2012 app, which features not only Mr. Smith's thoughtful choices, but also The Times's picks of the best politics coverage from around the Web.
Florida readers: Is there an article you would recommend to help people outside the state understand your state's politics? Let us know in the comments section, or send your tips in a Twitter message with #nyt2012.

        
5 Reasons Why Florida's Primary Matters More, The Tampa Bay Times
From the rules of the primary to the makeup of the electorate, one can't overstate the difference between campaigning in Florida and campaigning in the caucuses and primaries of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, writes Mr. Smith.
        
Tour Stop Suggestions for G.O.P. Presidential Hopefuls, The St. Petersburg Times
From a free clinic in St. Petersburg to a panhandle family's oyster business, a list of atypical campaign stops illustrate the economic and environmental issues facing Florida.
        
Can Developers Breathe Life Into Zombie Subdivisions?, The Tampa Bay Times
Builders see new "zombie" subdivisions - conceived by housing boom excess, dead before they were ever born - as ground zero for a Tampa Bay area housing renaissance, writes Mark Puente.
Pro's Tip Sheet from Justine Sayfie on the political tumult of the past six years in Florida 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party; Florida; In Florida; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1369 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: New Fund Hopes to Prove Thesis of Outspoken Analyst

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Christopher Whalen of Tangent Capital Partners says the strongest banks are the ones without exposure to Wall Street, and he is setting up a fund focused on small and midsize banks. 

 BODY:
R. Christopher Whalen doesn't mince words about the big banks.
"We don't need to have these behemoths. It's just a total fallacy," said Mr. Whalen, a financial analyst who has spent the last eight years evaluating the industry giants, like Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. "The big guys are going to break up."
 Now, he has to prove that his thesis - that smaller banks are stronger than the larger ones - is more than just rhetoric. After nearly a decade observing Wall Street from the sidelines, Mr. Whalen, who joined Tangent Capital Partners in December, is setting up an investment fund focused on small and midsize banks.
His investment strategy will follow the ratings model he honed at Institutional Risk Analytics, the research firm he co-founded, where he remains vice chairman. He praises the banks that focus on old-fashioned lending and avoid risky businesses like derivatives trading.
"For the past eight years, I've been the caretaker of the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch of the banking industry," said Dennis Santiago, the co-founder and chief executive of Institutional Risk Analytics, referring to a zany weapon in the movie "Monty Python and the Holy Grail." "I'm looking forward to seeing him basically balance himself out, to a more full use of his various talents."
Since 2003, Mr. Whalen's research has polarized the financial industry, garnering devoted followers even as critics chafed at the analyst's blunt style.
A fast talker with a booming laugh, Mr. Whalen, 53, who recently wrote "Inflated: How Money and Debt Built the American Dream," a book on the history of borrowing in America, has argued that the strongest banks are the ones without exposure to Wall Street. As he sees it, the biggest banks, facing potentially billions in losses as investors sue over mortgage bets gone bad, will need to be broken up.
Bank of America has been a frequent target. In his popular weekly newsletter, Mr. Whalen contends the bank has been permanently crippled by its exposure to troubled mortgage investments - and would be worth more in pieces. Investors, he has said, should agitate for a restructuring.
Jerome F. Dubrowski, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in a statement that the bank was "a stronger company today than it was during the height of the financial crisis," adding that the "focus continues to be on simplifying the company, building capital and reducing risk."
His analysis has long been contrarian. "Chris was one of a very small number of us who were really speaking vocally and forcefully on these issues," said Joshua Rosner, a managing director at Graham Fisher & Company, a research consultancy, and a fishing buddy of Mr. Whalen's. "We were often left unheard."
As early as February 2005, Mr. Whalen wrote that the growing trend of banks' shifting risky loans off their books and into investments like collateralized debt obligations raised troubling questions about hidden vulnerabilities in the financial system. In March 2007, a year before mortgage bets felled Bear Stearns, Mr. Whalen said at a conference in Washington that subprime home loans posed a threat whose scope was "almost unknowable."
Ernest T. Patrikis, a former general counsel for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who is now a partner at the law firm White & Case, said: "He's controversial. There are many people at the Fed who don't appreciate his efforts."
Mr. Whalen, who worked at the New York Fed, called it a "badge of honor" to rankle the central bank.
His affinity for smaller banks traces back to childhood. Growing up in Virginia, he regularly went with his father to First National Bank of Strasburg, a community lender, that Mr. Whalen likens to the bank in the film "It's a Wonderful Life." The head of the bank, with his desk on the main floor, was known to fix customers' fishing reels as a hobby.
Mr. Whalen spent his early years surrounded by Washington insiders. His father, the author Richard J. Whalen, a longtime political consultant, was a policy adviser to President Ronald Reagan. Political, economic and literary celebrities, including Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, were frequent guests in Mr. Whalen's Washington home. Mr. Volcker, who is a friend of Mr. Whalen's father, called the younger Mr. Whalen a "rather acerbic critic" of the financial industry.
After graduating from Villanova University in 1981 and working short stints at conservative organizations, he joined the New York Fed as a management trainee in 1984. Two years later, he started at the investment bank Bear Stearns in the fixed-income department. He spent much of the 1990s as an independent consultant, working with corporations that did business in Latin America, later rejoining Bear Stearns in mergers and acquisitions.
His corporate experience shaped his analytical ratings. In 2003, he co-founded Institutional Risk Analytics to address what he identified as a weakness in traditional research, mainly that it was based on future projections about a company rather than empirical data.
To grade banks large and small, he conducted extensive due diligence, including interviewing local real estate professionals to get a sense of the market. He's now looking to apply the process to his current investment thinking.
"He understands the community banking world, and how that affects everything else," said Vicky L. Schiff, a managing partner of Oro Capital Advisors, a Los Angeles-based real estate investment firm that recently hired Mr. Whalen as a consultant. "And he's not afraid to say what he thinks."

        
Whalen Joins Tangent Capital as Money Manager
        
Bank of America Taps Meissner as Head of Investment Banking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS ANALYTICS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Bank of America; Christopher Whalen; Institutional Risk Analytics; Tangent Capital Partners; Walen, R Christopher; Banking and Financial Institutions; Bank of America Corporation; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Tangent Capital Partners

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: Walen, R Christopher

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1370 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Meaningful Silence

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Jeb Bush's refusal to endorse, Florida voters' No. 1 issue and the fight to win Tuesday's primary are in today's Times. 

 BODY:
Today's Times:

        
Heading into Tuesday's primary in Florida, Jeb Bush's refusal to endorse a candidate is noteworthy - especially as Mitt Romney has tried hard to earn his support in the midst of the highly competitive nominating contest, Jeff Zeleny reports.

        
Disheartened by the particularly slow recovery in Florida, which is still suffering from the housing slump, voters are focused the economy, an issue that adds a bit of an unpredictable element to Tuesday's primary, Susan Saulny reports: Will they favor an anti-establishment candidate like Newt Gingrich or a business-focused candidate like Mr. Romney?

        
With Mr. Romney gaining a lead in polls, Mr. Gingrich is trying to rally his grass-roots coalition with a new endorsement from Herman Cain and a chorus of defenders,as the two trade personal attacks, Jim Rutenberg and Katharine Q. Seelye report.

        
The candidates are already starting to look beyond the Tuesday primary and what they're seeing is a stretch of campaigning that looks much different from the race so far, Michael D. Shear writes.

        
Would you expect to see a campaign ad while watching the Food Network? Political strategists are using research on TV viewers' political affiliations to target Republicans' favorite shows ahead of Florida's competitive primary, Jeremy W. Peters reports.
Washington Happenings:

        
President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia visits the White House on Monday to mark the 20th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the United States and Georgia.

        
President Obama will also participate in an interview hosted by YouTube and Google+, during which he'll discuss his State of the Union address. It will be streamed live on the White House's Web site.

        
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano delivers the second annual State of Homeland Security address on Monday. Her remarks will be streamed live at 1 p.m. on the department's Web site.

        
The Early Word: Rebuttal
        
The Early Word: Heating Up
        
The Early Word: Compare and Contrast
        
The Early Word: Tricky Terrain
        
The Early Word: Moving On

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (69%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HERMAN CAIN (53%); JANET NAPOLITANO (50%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1371 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: A Twitter Lesson

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: What should McDonald's have done differently on Twitter - or was disaster inevitable? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: The President Sings
In his annual State of the Union address, President Obama cranked up the populist pitch. The G.O.P. responded. Representative Sam Graves outlined what he thought small businesses wanted to hear but small-business owners were split. A small-business owner in West Virginia was excited. One study finds small-business owners are dissatisfied with all of the presidential candidates. Joel Kotkin says "this is America's moment - if Washington doesn't blow it." Your cellphone can now sing like the president.
Davos Update: An Intern Is Bored
As the sun bombards Earth with radiation, billionaires occupy Davos and bemoan the inequality of incomes. Their outlook is gloomy. Haley Amber Feinberg, a fictional intern, checks in: "Attended my first panel: 'Tolerating the Unemployed.' Was really boring, played Crackgammon on my phone's Facebook app the whole time."
The Economy: The Baltic Dry Index
Even though chief financial officers do not plan significant expansion (pdf) in 2012, Thomas Black at Bloombergreports that companies from General Electric to Chobani, a yogurt producer, are adding workers and leading a rebound in hiring. M.B.A. employment figures are another reason for economic optimism. Tech hiring is strong. The Federal Reserve chairman promises to keep rates low. Paul Krugman is feeling better. Durable goods orders jump, but the Baltic Dry Index records a disturbingly large drop. Travel on all roads and streets declined in November 2011, but the trucking industry posts its biggest jump in tonnage in 13 years. President Obama delays his 2013 budget. Steven Rattner says it's dangerous when economists claim that debt doesn't matter.
Sales and Marketing 1: A Twitter Lesson
American Express succeeds at a Facebook campaign, while McDonald's suffers the wrath of Twitter. Flowtown creates a cool small-business social media infographic. An educational institution spends more on Google advertising than Apple, eBay, State Farm and AT&T. Retailers were the second-largest source of Google ad revenue in 2011. A study finds that while lots of small-business owners believe social media are important only a few tap its power. John Donahoe, chief executive of eBay, believes we're going to see more change in how consumers shop and pay in the next three years than we saw in the last 20.
Sales and Marketing 2: The Power of Bieber
Lori Richardson names five attributes of top sales influencers. Devin Cole explains how to network. Google takes its daily deals to five new cities. Trendcentral discusses three new crowdfunding services. Our patience for Web ads lasts, oh, about 15 seconds. A location-based shopping app, Shopkick, has three million users. Christopher Penn shows that vintage ads can teach a lot about e-mail marketing design. Derek Johnson explains how to measure success with text-message advertising. Justin Kownacki explains how Justin Bieber ruined his life: "Evidently, Mr. Bieber (or his handlers) saw my tweet and decided that I was a bloke worth following. And that one single button click momentarily ruined my life."
Ideas: A Professional Laugher?
A new service helps people save money and resources by sharing stuff with community and friends. This is the place to go if you're in the market for a professional laugher. Virtual internships are experiencing a rise in demand. Patrick Smith finds a few unexpected pleasures at our airports. David Bakke explains how he started his side business with Scotch tape and offers this simple advice: "For the most part, I bought and sold products with which I was familiar." Here are 10 reasons some companies succeed and others fail. Debbie McDonnell offers ideas for choosing a business name, including: "Count the characters. Google AdWords permits 25 characters so a business name longer than this means having to abbreviate the name if you advertise there. Even if you don't plan to advertise here initially, allow for it as it tends to be one of the most cost-effective ways of advertising." Walmart offers a chance to sell "in the big box." This mountaintop ride seems like a bad idea.
Around the Country: Cashing In
Female business owners wave a magic wand in Portland, Ore. Houston's businesses are hiring. A bunch of Indiana businesses plan to cash in on the Super Bowl. Maine is open for business, according to its governor. The start-ups in Brevard County, Fla., are finding that investors are still cautious. Illinois teenagers face bleak job prospects, but a marketing company gives teenagers with ideas the chance to win cash and fame. Manufacturing activity in the Chicago and central Atlantic regions advances. Steven Tyler gives an embarrassing rendition of the national anthem and a New York City school sign is embarrassingly misspelled. A coming Small Business Summit extends its "strategy award" nomination deadline to Feb. 10. An accountant offers a small-business survival guide webinar on Tuesday. A Staples contest offers a free TV commercial as its prize.
Around the World: Press Freedom
A 375-year-old French bank forgives the debts of Paris's poor. The United States drops 27 places on an index of press freedom. As Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament sink and the country slips into recession, Britain's prime minister has an idea: let businesses occupy empty Government offices! Iran's trade with China soars, and Chinese solar companies are found to be selling below cost. Wenguang Huang explains why Chinese entrepreneurs want to invest in the United States. The International Monetary Fund says Europe poses a global recession threat. Eleven years of Dubai's growth can now be seen from space. A new satellite takes spectacular pictures of Earth.
Finances: Employee Expense Reports
As lending accelerates, Jamie Dimon discusses the state of banking. Catherine Clifford explains how community development financial institutions can help start-ups. Barry Moltz suggests where companies can find short-term cash. Accounting Today has a slide show on the most unusual items found in employee expense reports. A company offers a Weight Watchers-type service to help us "set financial goals (and actually meet them)."
Boss of the Week
Christian Wentz's Cambridge, Mass., start-up is developing a "wireless router for the brain" that will make it possible to collect data from the brain: "The data could then be wirelessly transmitted to a computer." (On the other hand, this guy is performing like a boss.)
Technology: Apple Is Flush
After a blow-out quarter, Apple has $97.6 billion in the bank and now we know why! Google starts tracking small businesses more closely - here's how to find out what the company knows about you. Twitter is going to censor posts. With new ad rollouts to come, Twitter acquires an antimalware start-up. Bill George explains how I.B.M.'s Sam Palmisano redefined the global corporation. Meanwhile, I.B.M. selects its global start-up entrepreneur finalists and is gearing up to challenge Google Docs and Microsoft Office 365. A Microsoft executive says a gay marriage law in Washington State is essential to the company's competitive edge. Craftsmen creates a garage door opener with remote control. Almost a third of all Americans now own a tablet or digital reading device. Information Week shares nine password security policy suggestions.
The Week's Bests
Reason my kids should go to China. Wendy Kaufman tells how a trip to China changed how she ran her business: "A C.E.O. that I met in China explained that he so passionately believes in the importance of honoring elders that he would only marry his wife if she treated his parents as her own. In the Chinese culture, family is so valued there is always someone caring for the family member. This type of work/life balance helps improve quality of care in both business and family interactions."
Lessons from the big guys. Phil Simon shares six things he's learned from big companies, including, "Be sticky": "Attracting customers with your great products and services is step one. But getting them to stay with you - and only you - is the ultimate goal. With the launch of its Kindle Fire, Amazon just got stickier by making it easier for users to shop at Amazon and consume media and entertainment at Amazon than anywhere else. How can your business lure in customers and keep them there? With amazing customer service, follow-up, regular e-mail specials or contests? With interactive features at your Web site, birthday coupons or preferred customer perks? Make it hard for your customers to want to go anywhere else."
Ways to manage time. Michael Costigan offers great advice on time management, including, "Find someone else to crack the whip": "I find that it helps to have someone hold you accountable. Whether it's a team member or an assistant, ask them to keep on you about getting things done. Sometimes the best way to make sure you do the things you need to do is by positioning the involvement of other people. That way, you aren't just letting yourself down if something doesn't get completed, you're letting them and maybe the entire team down. And depending on how critical the tasks are, that could mean meeting payroll."
This Week's Question: What should McDonald's have done differently on Twitter - or was disaster inevitable?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: Gross National Happiness
        
This Week in Small Business: Destroying the Internet
        
This Week in Small Business: For the Win!
        
This Week in Small Business: The Latino Opportunity
        
This Year in Small Business: The Best Reads

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (95%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); RETAILERS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (67%); DURABLE GOODS (67%); CROWDSOURCING (67%); TRUCKING (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (62%) economy; Small Business; Graves, Sam; Kotkin, Joel; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (53%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: SAM GRAVES (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); STEVEN RATTNER (58%); JOHN DONAHOE (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (51%) Graves, Sam; Kotkin, Joel

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1372 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Carpetbagger)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Sundance Documentaries Transform Data Into Stories

BYLINE: MANOHLA DARGIS


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the documentaries at Sundance, including the grand jury prize winner, about the war on drugs, and a second filmmaker's work on the West Memphis Three case. 

 BODY:
Over the weekend, "The House I Live In," Eugene Jarecki's heart-heavy investigation into the American war on drugs, nabbed the grand jury prize for documentary at the Sundance Film Festival. Mr. Jarecki's other movies include "The Trials of Henry Kissinger," about you know who, and a 2005 grand jury prize winner, "Why We Fight," about the American military industrial complex. Notably, one of this year's jury members was Charles Ferguson, whose documentaries include "No End in Sight" and "Inside Job," and who, like Mr. Jarecki, has a methodological gift for transforming boatloads of information into both political arguments and eminently watchable narratives. 
 Mr. Jarecki's new documentary takes its title from the song, memorably crooned by both Paul Robeson and Frank Sinatra, which compares America with a house we - "all races and religions" - live in. As Mr. Jarecki explains in his voiceover, he came to his latest subject through his relationship with Nannie Jeter, an African-American who worked for his (white) family when he was young. After the drug-related death of her son, Mr. Jarecki found himself wondering what drugs had done to Ms. Jeter's family, a question that quickly found him, as he tells it here, shifting his focus from drugs, their uses and abuses, to the war on drugs. 
Marshaling a wealth of material - home movies, television news reports, health films and original material, including myriad talking-head interviews - Mr. Jarecki looks at the politics and policies of the war on drugs, from the streets to the courts and beyond. Using Richard M. Nixon's declaration of the start of the drug war as one anchor (the president speaks approvingly of spending resources on treatment), Mr. Jarecki moves forward in time to show what the war then wrought and looks back in history to explain how and why drugs became politicized. His findings about the causes of the war - specifically as a powerful instrument of racial and class control - and his conclusions about its untold number of casualties and nominally unseen costs are shocking if not surprising.
 Among the movie's fiercest, most persuasive talking heads is the blunt-talking David Simon, the former journalist turned television auteur of "The Wire," that brilliant, densely layered inquiry into some of the institutional stakes of the drug war. Mr. Jarecki could use some of that directness in his documentary's voiceover. However well-intentioned and earnest an attempt at universality (he registers as a nice white guy trying to figure it all out), Mr. Jarecki's decision to weave himself into the narrative initially comes across as ill-advised and close to self-flattering. Particularly cumbersome are his intermittent questions - he does a lot of wondering aloud - a rhetorical strategy that needlessly implies a level of naivete that Mr. Jarecki's strong, persuasive moviemaking finally demolishes. 
Directed by the filmmaker and photographer Lauren Greenfield, the documentary "The Queen of Versailles" takes a voyeuristic look at David and Jackie Siegel, a millionaire (or billionaire) couple whose titanic American dream, including the construction of a 90,000-square-foot, mansion, collided with the reality of 2008 economic meltdown. How Ms. Greenfield convinced the Siegels to let her poke around their Florida manse - a rococo, 34,000-square-foot monstrosity stuffed with children, servants, clutter and eventually, after the help starts to thin, dog droppings - is a testament to either the filmmaker's wiles or the narcissism of her subjects. "Versailles" doesn't say anything new about megawealth in America, but it's a jaw-dropping glimpse at Rome before and after the fall. 
Here's hoping that some daring distributor takes a chance on "Room 237," a wonderfully entertaining look at the extreme movie love that has grown up around Stanley Kubrick's masterly 1980 chiller, "The Shining." Directed by Rodney Ascher, "Room 237" takes as its point of departure those cinephiles who, as they explain in voiceover, have dedicated an extraordinary amount of time and even more imagination to unlocking the secrets - some convincing, others more cracked than Jack Nicholson's crazed character - in "The Shining." Wittily, Mr. Ascher employs a lavish number of seamlessly edited movie clips to illustrate these theories, a strategy that affirms just how deeply some fanatics live not just with the object of their cine-obsessions but also inside them. Mr. Ascher's end credits state that his sampling of all these films falls under fair use. Fingers crossed that he's right. 
Among the other Sundance documentaries that stirred up interest and noise the most disappointing was Amy Berg's "West of Memphis," her look at the West Memphis Three. In brief, the three men - Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin and Jessie Misskelley Jr. - had been, until their release in August, doing time for the 1993 murder of three 8-year-old boys in the Arkansas town of West Memphis. In their 1996 documentary "Paradise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills" and two subsequent movies, Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky helped to stir doubts about the convictions, becoming part of the campaign to free the three. (Mr. Berlinger's and Mr. Sinofsky's third movie, "Paradise Lost 3: Purgatory," has been nominated for an Oscar.) 
It's unclear what Ms. Berg and her patrons - the director Peter Jackson and his wife, the producer Fran Walsh - thought that another movie about the case would add to the cinematic record. There's some fine material here, but the documentary revisits familiar terrain and leans too hard on insinuation, as with the suggestion that some prosecutorial players used the original trial for (surprise) political gain. Unfortunately, Ms. Berg doesn't dig into the politics and instead meanders here and there in a documentary that has too much Eddie Vedder (a West Memphis Three supporter) and, like Mr. Berlinger and Mr. Sinofsky's work, includes too many crime-scene photos of three naked, hogtied children whose deaths can register as a filmmaking afterthought. 

        
Kickstarter Fest
        
Sundance Honors 'Beasts of the Southern Wild'
        
At Sundance, One Star Bakes; Another Keeps the Party Going
        
The First Time's Surreal, for Muppet, Man or Dragon Tattoo Girl
        
Sundance Sued Over Opening-Night Documentary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); WRITERS (60%); RELIGION (53%) Amy Berg; David Simon; Eddie Vedder; Eugene Jarecki; Joe Berlinger; Lauren Greenfield; Peter Jackson; Richard Nixon; Stanley Kubrick; West Memphis Three; Baldwin, Jason; Berg, Amy; Berlinger, Joe; Echols, Damien; Greenfield, Lauren; Jackson, Peter; Jarecki, Eugene; Kubrick, Stanley; Misskelley, Jessie Jr; Nicholson, Jack; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Robeson, Paul; Simon, David; Sinatra, Frank; Vedder, Eddie; Sundance Film Festival

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%) Baldwin, Jason; Berg, Amy; Berlinger, Joe; Echols, Damien; Greenfield, Lauren; Jackson, Peter; Jarecki, Eugene; Kubrick, Stanley; Misskelley, Jessie Jr; Nicholson, Jack; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Robeson, Paul; Simon, David; Sinatra, Frank; Vedder, Eddie

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012



1373 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Will President Obama's Blueprint Cut College Costs?

BYLINE: MARK KANTROWITZ


HIGHLIGHT: Mark Kantrowitz, the founder of finaid.org and an expert in college finances, analyzes President Obama's plans to improve financial aid. 

 BODY:
In his State of the Union address, President Obama announced several proposals to make college more affordable. These included doubling the number of federal work-study program jobs over five years, a one-year extension of low interest rates on certain federal student loans and a permanent extension of the American Opportunity Tax Credit. President Obama also "put colleges on notice," telling the colleges that if they can't stop tuition from going up, the financing they get from taxpayers each year will go down. The president also announced initiatives to help families make informed decisions concerning college costs and quality.
More money for college is better than none. As a nation, we must put a priority on increasing federal and state investment in higher education. Maintaining the status quo or making slight tweaks to student aid financing is not enough.
Yet a key concern is that increases in some student aid programs may come at the expense of cuts in other more effective student aid programs.
It is unclear how President Obama plans on paying for increases in student aid financing while Congress concentrates on cost-cutting. Congress cut $8 billion a year out of the Pell grant program last year by ending the year-round Pell grant program, which allowed students in accelerated degree programs to get two Pell grants in a single year. Congress reduced the income threshold at which a student qualifies for a full Pell grant from $32,000 to $23,000. This cuts the Pell grants by $1,100 to $1,700 for nearly 14 percent of Pell grant recipients. Additional cuts are looming on the horizon.
The tight federal budgets yield a zero-sum game, where increases in one form of federal student aid force cuts in other forms of student aid. Adding 700,000 more federal work-study jobs over five years will cost more than $1 billion a year.
But how will the Obama administration pay for a one-year extension of the 3.4 percent interest rate on subsidized Stafford loans for undergraduate students? Approximately 7.4 million students will borrow about $3,500 in subsidized Stafford loans on average, costing the federal government more than $7 billion. The permanent extension of the American Opportunity Tax Credit will add several billion dollars more a year in tax expenditures. If the Obama administration doesn't find savings elsewhere in the budget, these spending increases will force cuts in the Pell grant program, causing declines in Bachelor's degree attainment by low-income students. That would be a bad bargain.
The risk is that the proposals for increasing student aid financing may be little more than a shell game, where the federal government gives with one hand and takes back with the other. For example, President Obama's proposal for a one-year delay in the doubling of interest on the subsidized Stafford loan program will be coupled with increases in interest rates on the Perkins loan program. The re-engineering of the Perkins loan program will increase the interest rate on the Perkins loan from 5 percent to 6.8 percent and transform the subsidized Perkins loan into an unsubsidized Stafford loan. (This will save students some money, by shifting borrowing from higher-cost private student loans to lower-cost federal education loans. But it still involves increasing some interest rates to reduce others). Shuffling the deck doesn't yield a net gain if there is no improvement in college graduation rates or other public policy objectives.
If the federal government can pay for cutting the interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans in half, then why was it necessary to cut the average Pell grant? Changing the interest rates and subsidized interest benefits on student loans has no impact on college access and completion rates. In contrast, the Pell grant program enables low-income students to enroll in college and to graduate. Cutting Pell grant financing forces low-income students to borrow more, shift enrollment to lower-cost colleges or drop out of college. Increasing the interest rate is a better alternative than cutting the Pell grant.
President Obama's proposal to provide colleges with an incentive to keep tuition affordable will have a modest impact on tuition inflation. The proposal will base a college's allocation of federal campus-based aid on whether the college keeps net tuition affordable, limits tuition increases and helps low-income students to enroll and graduate. But the $10 billion in campus-based financing represents only about 6 percent of all federal student aid financing and the allocation formula is complicated. The prospect of losing this financing may force some colleges to increase tuition even faster to compensate for the loss of campus-based aid financing.
There are limits to the ability of colleges to control costs. The consumer inflation rate has little to do with increases in college costs. College costs are largely driven by increases in the number of faculty and staff, increases in salaries, increases in facility costs, energy costs, equipment costs and health care costs, increases in institutional financial aid financing and decreases in federal and state financing. For example, if a college has a discount rate of 37 percent, the college must increase tuition by $1.59 to net $1 in additional revenue. This contributes to college tuition increasing faster than inflation by adding a multiplier effect.
President Obama's proposal to create a mandatory "Financial Aid Shopping Sheet" and "College Scorecard", on the other hand, will do more to constrain increases in college costs. This standardization of college cost and financial aid disclosures will provide families with clear, correct and comparable information about the real bottom-line cost of college.
This will help them make informed decisions concerning the tradeoffs between college affordability and other factors in college choice. More families will choose high quality but lower-cost colleges, forcing colleges to cut costs while maintaining or improving quality.

        
Part 1: Answers to Your Questions on Scholarships and Student Loans
        
Last of 7 Parts: Answers to Readers' Questions on Financial Aid
        
Questions and Answers on the Student Loan Bill
        
Part 2: Answers on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
        
Part 1: Answers on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%) Financial Aid; Mark Kantrowitz; Pell Grant; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Paying Your Way

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1374 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Religious Giving and Its Critics

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Mormons, Catholics and the politics of religious charity. 

 BODY:
Since I used my Sunday column to write about the ways that government can crowd out - sometimes gently and subtly, and sometimes much more directly - private efforts to serve the common good, I was struck by the way that The New Republic's Alec MacGillis reacted to conservative praise for the millions of dollars that Mitt Romney has given away to private charity:
Yes, apparently the right is so scrambled over how to defend Romney's sub-14 percent federal income tax rate that it is now arguing that his charitable contributions - the vast majority of which went to the Mormon church, which got $4 million from Romney over the past two years - should count as part of his contribution to the common good. So: this April, no need to pay the IRS the full tab. Just let them know about your donations to worthy causes like, say, your needy prep school or Ivy League alma mater or the Heritage Foundation or, as in the case of Romney, a church that spends lots of money on really tall spires and anti-gay marriage referenda, and demonstrates its contribution to society by prohibiting non-members from entering its temples.
The idea that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints spends most of its money on "anti-gay marriage referenda" is a little like the idea that the federal government spends most of its money bankrolling public broadcasting. (The Mormons spent about $180,000 on ads during the Prop. 8 debate in California - about one twelfth of the money the church received in the last two years, and the equivalent of a rounding error in, say, Sheldon Adelson's donations to Newt Gingrich's campaign.) As for what else the Mormons spend money on - well, yes, like most successful religious organizations, they do build a lot of churches and temples. But they also run one of the America's most effective private welfare states, which plays a not-inconsiderable role in Utah's strikingly low poverty and unemployment rates. (When I was in Salt Lake City last year, my host pointed out a number of recession-era construction project that he said were being funded by the church, which suggests that some enterprising economics reporter or blogger could write a great piece about Mormon Keynesianism.) Here's an Economist writeup on Mormon charity, from the era of George W. Bush's faith-based initiatives:
... Mormons are supposed to forgo two meals a month and donate the cost of the food to a local fund for the needy. This may not sound much but it gives each (relatively small) congregation over $50,000 to spend a year, which buys a lot of soup kitchens. With 3,600 congregations in Utah alone, the system produces nearly $200m annually: about a fifth of what Utah's state government spends on welfare, and almost as much as it spends on health.
...
Second, Mormons have a formal welfare system for providing food and jobs. The church runs a number of farms, canneries and other commercial companies. It can simply allocate jobs (temporary ones) for those out of work. One of these firms is a chain of supermarkets. The hungry and penniless have merely to go to the bishop; he will approve a shopping list, and the grocery will provide the goods free.
Now it's true that the L.D.S. welfare system is more focused on serving Mormons in particular than Utah-ans or Americans in general, and thus arguably has a narrower and more sectarian impact than does, say, the Catholic Church's network of hospitals and charities and schools. In certain ways, though, its sectarian approach probably contributes to its effectiveness: The Economist story takes note of the personal, informal and non-bureaucratic way that much of the money gets disbursed. ("One bishop was asked for help by a parishioner who had found a job but could not get to it: he bought her a second-hand car.") More importantly, though, it's precisely the more universal services provided by Catholicism's institutions that have left them vulnerable to the Obama White House's current regulatory attack. If they were explicitly sectarian in their community service, they would be eligible for the narrow conscience exemption that the Department of Health and Human Services has afforded to religious bodies. But because they serve non-Catholics as well as Catholics, the government has decided (as Yuval Levin puts it in a fine post today) that they can be "fined for holding views regarding contraception, sterilization, and abortion that are different from the Obama administration's views."
In other words, contemporary liberalism offers religious groups a choice. They can try to serve the widest possible population, in which case a liberal administration will set rules that force them to violate their conscience. Or they can serve a narrower one, in which case liberal journalists will sneer at them (and their most generous benefactors) for only caring about their co-religionists.

        
Mormonism and Mitt Romney's "Weirdness"
        
Why We Have a Culture War
        
Mormons, Evangelicals and Glenn Beck
        
Gingrich and the Christian Right
        
A Response to Mara Hvistendahl (II)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); MARRIAGE (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (66%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (64%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Culture Wars; liberalism; Mitt Romney; Mormonism; Religion; Roman Catholicism; society

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (82%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1375 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Romney Keeps the Heat on Gingrich

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Increasingly confident, Mitt Romney has no intentions of easing up on Newt Gingrich. 

 BODY:
DUNEDIN, Fla. - Mitt Romney kept up the attack on Newt Gingrich at his second stop of the day Monday, even as he seemed a bit more subdued and tired than in recent days, offering a more muted criticism of the former speaker of the House to the large crowd that had gathered here for an outdoor, afternoon rally. 
"With a turnout like this, I'm beginning to feel we might win tomorrow," Mr. Romney said, before offering an even more confident assessment: "So the people here in Florida said, "We're not going to get behind Newt Gingrich, we're going to get behind Mitt Romney.' And I want to say thank you to you, for your help."
Mr. Romney credited his surge here, which comes on the heels of a rocky patch for his campaign, when he lost the South Carolina primary to Mr. Gingrich by nearly 13 points, to his own performance in two recent debates.
"I think the reason he isn't doing so well is because of those last two debates, don't you think," Mr. Romney said.
"Speaker Gingrich, he's not feeling very excited these days," Mr. Romney said. "He's been flailing around a bit, trying to go after me for one thing or the other. You just watch and shake your head. It's been kind of painfully revealing to watch." 
Before turning his attention to President Obama, Mr. Romney offered up the same case against Mr. Gingrich that he's been making for several days now - that his consulting work for Freddie Mac, the mortgage lending giant that contributed to the recent subprime mortgage crisis, made him unelectable.
"If you're part of the housing crisis, you're probably not going to get elected president," he said.
In a brief question-and-answer session with reporters, Mr. Romney said that while he could feel South Carolina slipping away, he feels more confident about the Florida primary.
Though the next contest after Tuesday's Florida primary is Nevada on Saturday, Mr. Romney plans to make stops in both Minnesota and Colorado - two states with rapidly approaching caucuses - in the coming week, and said the remaining states "all present challenges and opportunities for the other candidates, and for me as well."
"Minnesota is a state that's hard to predict how they'll make a decision," he said. "Nevada has a strong Tea Party component that I'd like to connect with, and get support from Tea Partiers."
Asked about Mr. Gingrich's recent comments that he plans to continue his bid all the way to the Republican convention, Mr. Romney said that while Mr. Gingrich has a right to stay in the race as long as he wants, he wasn't particularly concerned.
"That's usually an indication that you think you're going to lose," Mr. Romney said. "When you say, 'I'm going to go on no matter what happens,' that's usually not a good sign. I'm hopeful to get the delegates I need and be at the convention with the number that's needed to be the nominee."
But that doesn't mean he plans to ease up on the former speaker of the House anytime soon. Eric Fehrnstrom, a top adviser to Mr. Romney, said that they plan to keep the pressure on Mr. Gingrich.
"I think whenever you have a candidate like Newt Gingrich out there, who is like a volcano and you don't know what he's going to be spewing next, it's important to push back against the misinformation," Mr. Fehrnstrom said.
Still, Mr. Fehrnstrom added, "The president and his failures on the economy remain our main focus."
"It's why Mitt Romney is in his race to begin with," he said. "We're always going to be talking about that. That will always be the elevator music in this campaign. But we're also going to be drawing sharp contrasts with our opponents as required. And that's what we're doing here in Florida"

        
NBC News Asks Romney Campaign to Remove Ad
        
Gingrich Releases Two Attack Ads
        
Gingrich Unleashes Ad Attacking Romney
        
TV Ad Says Gingrich Exaggerates His Ties to Reagan
        
Rubio Stays Neutral, but Defends Romney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); SUBPRIME LENDING (63%) gingrich; romney; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Florida; In Florida; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (52%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012



1376 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Volcker Rule Stirs Up Opposition Overseas

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: At the World Economic Forum, Wall Street's top bankers discovered that foreign governments were fighting to end the so-called Volcker Rule. 

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland -- Usually, it is the banks that are fighting efforts to impose new regulations on the industry. Now, it is foreign governments fighting against bank regulations in the United States.
In the halls of last week's annual meeting of the World Economic Forum here, Wall Street's top bankers found a curious ally in their battle to end - or perhaps water down - the Volcker Rule, that part of last year's Dodd-Frank financial regulation law that says that banks are not allowed to participate in "proprietary trading." Translation: Banks can't make risky bets with their own money. The idea, rooted in ending the too-big-to-fail phenomenon, is to separate the risky casino element of Wall Street from the utility role of helping finance the economy.
Yet finance ministers from around the world lined up to whisper in the ear of Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, who made the rounds in Davos on Thursday and Friday, about a specific element of the Volcker Rule that has them apoplectic: The rule says that United States banks - and possibly certain foreign banks that do business in America - would be restricted in trading foreign government bonds. Yet the rule, conveniently, provides an exemption for United States government securities. Every other country is out of luck.
 The measure, critics say, is likely to increase borrowing costs for foreign governments, reduce liquidity and make the market for foreign government bonds more volatile, the opponents charge. In the end, it may fall into the category of unintended consequences of a proposed new regulation.
This latest assault on the Volcker Rule comes amid negotiations to resolve the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. The possibility of anything that could increase borrowing costs for countries like Italy, Portugal or Spain, understandably, has government leaders on edge.
George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, who was whisked from meeting to meeting here in the Alps, is a vocal critic of the rule.
"I am concerned that the regulations could have a significant adverse impact on sovereign debt markets, including here in the U.K.," Mr. Osborne wrote in a letter to Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve.
While Mr. Osborne noted that the Volcker Rule carries market-making exceptions for trading - it would let banks buy and sell stocks, bonds and other instruments on behalf of their clients - "in practice the regulations would appear to make it more difficult and costlier to provide market-making services in non-U.S. sovereign markets," he wrote. "Any consequent withdrawal of market-making services by banks would reduce liquidity in sovereign markets, which in turn would engender greater volatility and make it more difficult, riskier and costlier for countries such as the U.K. to issue and distribute their debt."
Japanese officials similarly believe the rule "would raise the operational and transactional costs of trading" in Japanese government bonds "and could lead to the exit from Tokyo of Japanese subsidiaries of U.S. banks."
The Japanese officials, who wrote a letter to a handful of United States agencies said: "Some of the Japanese banks might be forced to cease or dramatically reduce their U.S. operations. Those reactions could further adversely affect liquidity and pricing of" Japanese government bonds. Ominously, the Japanese officials added: "We could also see the same picture in sovereign bond markets worldwide at this critical juncture."
Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of Canada, who was at Davos, is even more upset about the Volcker Rule, which is named for the former Federal Reserve chief Paul Volcker and is still receiving public comment. He contends that the rule could create its own systemic risk and wreak havoc on the government bond market.
Canada's five largest banks are so anxious about the rule that they have sent a letter to the Federal Reserve and four other agencies arguing that the rule may be illegal under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
All of these foreign ministers have a point that United States officials may want to consider. There is no question that the Volcker Rule is intended to limit banks from taking too much risk - that's a smart and noble aim. However, the upshot of the particular provision of the Volcker Rule around banks trading in foreign sovereign bonds could create more problems than it solves. And the amorphous language around what constitutes a proprietary trade and "market making" is so confusing that the result is that banks are going to get out of the market entirely.
Think about it like this: When a bank sells a 30-year bond from say, France, the buyer often sells back an older French bond, say a 30-year bond that now has only 22 years left on it. Traditionally, the bank would buy that bond as if it were a used car that was being turned in for a new one. To keep the car dealership analogy going, the bank would then put the used car on its lot until it can find a buyer, with the car - or bond in this case - sometimes sitting in its inventory for weeks or even months.
Under the Volcker Rule, keeping that car on the lot would constitute a proprietary trade, not market making. And therein lies the problem: If you take the biggest American banks out of the market for foreign government bonds, the price will go up.
"Importantly, banks under the Volcker Rule may now be either unable or unwilling to carry inventory, not only in their trading account but also as a part of their traditional market making and flow trading business," Lord, Abbett & Company, the mutual fund company, recently wrote in a note to clients. "Inventory promotes transactions that enhance and broaden liquidity."
However, the Treasury Department studied the impact the Volcker Rule would have on liquidity across markets broadly and concluded that it would be limited.
Of course, the outsize bet that MF Global took on foreign government bonds is a memorable cautionary lesson in why the rule should exist in the first place. Jon Corzine, MF Global's chief executive, made a highly leveraged bet-the-firm gamble on European bonds. Counterparties were so concerned about that exposure that they effectively closed the firm by no longer trading with it.
Nonetheless, it may be worth the United States government considering alternatives to the way the Volcker Rule is drafted. Otherwise it is possible the Volcker Rule could help exacerbate - rather than prevent the next crisis.

        
Another View: A Simpler Rein Than the Volcker Rule
        
Banking Industry Revamp Moves Step Closer to Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); EURO CRISIS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (68%) Bank of Canada; Chancellor of the Exchequer; Dodd-Frank Act; George Osborne; Mark Carney; proprietary trading; Timothy F. Geithner; Volcker Rule; World Economic Forum; Carney, Mark J; Geithner, Timothy F; Osborne, George; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Federal Reserve System; Treasury Department; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System; Treasury Department

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); GEORGE OSBORNE (89%); BEN BERNANKE (57%) Carney, Mark J; Geithner, Timothy F; Osborne, George

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); ALPS (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012



1377 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Theater Complex Raises Its Curtain

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
During the depths of the recession in 2009, leaders of Signature Theater Company had a showy selling point in their pitch to raise $38.5 million to build a new home: models of the 70,000-square-foot complex by a star architect, Frank Gehry. Yet Signature, a respected but frills-free Off Broadway nonprofit, lacked a grand space in which to show the models and to entertain prospective donors.
James Houghton, who created Signature in 1991 and remains artistic director, found a solution, thanks to an actor whose career he helped start: Edward Norton, the Oscar-nominated actor (''American History X'') and a Signature board member since 1996. Mr. Norton offered an empty corner in his expanded downtown apartment, and soon he and Mr. Houghton were holding cocktail parties and private viewings.
Mr. Norton's friend Barry Diller came by one snowy morning; the foundation financed by Mr. Diller and his wife, Diane Von Furstenberg, ended up donating $3 million. This winter Mr. Norton hosted the hedge fund magnate William A. Ackman and his wife, Karen, who, like Mr. Norton, is on the board of the High Line. Even though the Ackmans have never seen a Signature production, they donated $25 million last week through their foundation. 
On Tuesday Mr. Houghton, Mr. Norton and their friends will gather in finery to open the $66 million Signature Center, one of the most ambitious new cultural complexes in New York in decades and a testament to the value of long-term relationships.
Mr. Norton was an aspiring young actor out of Yale in 1993 when he auditioned for an Edward Albee production at Signature; he didn't get the role, but Mr. Houghton liked what he saw and cast him in another Albee play, ''Fragments.'' (Most Signature seasons are devoted to a single playwright, a distinction that will continue among Signature's expanded offerings.) Mr. Norton said that role earned him his first paycheck as an actor.
''Jim is an incredibly loyal man, to his actors and writers and also to his institutional vision for retrospective work at Signature, and his spirit was one I've loved being around,'' said Mr. Norton, who, less than three years after ''Fragments,'' was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actor for his feature film debut in ''Primal Fear.'' (He also starred in an acclaimed Signature production of ''Burn This'' in 2002.)
''So when Jim asked me to co-chair the capital campaign in August 2008,'' he continued, ''even when the bottom fell out of the economy the next month, with the Lehman collapse, I thought, 'We can do this.' ''
Mr. Houghton, also the director of the esteemed drama division at the Juilliard School, has managed a daunting feat in an economic downturn by attracting true believers to the 12-year planning effort for Signature's home. Early on, he won friends in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration by agreeing to base Signature in a proposed performing arts center by Mr. Gehry at ground zero, then a key part of the redevelopment in Lower Manhattan. But the cost and logistics of the project became untenable, and by 2007 Mr. Houghton and Mr. Gehry were discussing a new home closer to the Times Square theater district.
The city has remained a supporter of Signature (as well as of other theaters seeking new homes), providing $27.5 million of the $66 million needed; Mayor Bloomberg's own foundation is donating $3 million, Mr. Houghton said.
The center, which is opening on Tuesday night with a production of Athol Fugard's ''Blood Knot,'' includes three theaters, an expansive cafe and bookstore space, with sofas, open to the public (and free WiFi), and a gleaming glass marquee that newly lights a stretch of West 42nd Street near 10th Avenue. (Signature's former home, a single theater located a block farther west, away from Times Square, is seeking new tenants.)
Another important relationship has been Mr. Houghton's with Juilliard, which will base a new training program for drama students at Signature Center. Juilliard's financial contribution will probably be a wash, given that Signature could probably otherwise rent that space; the artistic contribution, meanwhile, will be the energy of having Juilliard students and teachers working there.
''What mattered most in creating the center was proposing a bigger scale for Signature -- the sort of scale that would excite major donors -- while at the same time making clear that our mission would remain steady,'' Mr. Houghton said in an interview in his modest office overlooking 42nd Street. ''We're not going to start creating a bunch of new musicals. We're not going to start casting celebrity actors or aim things to transfer to Broadway.''
Part of the sales pitch of Signature's capital campaign was the theater's unusual commitment to low ticket prices: thanks to corporate and private underwriting, tickets are expected to cost only $25 for the next decade. (They ranged from $15 to $20 in recent years.)
Mr. Norton said Signature still had about $10 million left to raise for the combined needs of construction and the subsidized tickets. As for his own donation, he said, ''I'm waiting to see what the gap is going to be when we get to the real zero hour.'' Mr. Norton's involvement is rare for a high-profile actor; he has proved to be Signature's rainmaker, working virtually full time over the last two years and passing up several film projects to stay close to New York to help raise the money.
The addition of two new theaters is only one part of Signature's expansion. The company, which has chiefly produced revivals, recently began an unusual residency program for playwrights that guarantees each of them three productions over a five-year period, as well as a $50,000 cash award and health insurance. The first playwrights in residence are Annie Baker (''Circle Mirror Transformation''), Will Eno (''Middletown''), Katori Hall (''The Mountaintop''), Kenneth Lonergan (''The Starry Messenger'') and Regina Taylor (''Crowns'').
Mr. Houghton estimated that Signature would produce 45 plays over the next five years, with about 35 of them new works. By comparison, over the previous five years, Signature produced about 20 plays, and about two-thirds were revivals.
Mr. Eno, a 2005 Pulitzer Prize finalist for ''Thom Pain (based on nothing),'' said he decided to accept the Signature playwriting residency largely because of Mr. Houghton.
''Like almost no one I know, he manages to have both a deeply comprehensive and specific vision of things, along with a really wide-open and kind of down-home way,'' Mr. Eno said. ''It makes you feel very comfortable to be around someone who is both so aggressively detail-oriented and who's also generally calm.''
The playwriting residencies have provoked some private grumbling among a few theater executives and playwrights' agents, concerned that Signature is hoarding the talent. Yet none of those concerned would speak on the record.
''I'm sure people have opinions,'' Mr. Houghton said, ''but there is also plenty of remarkable theater going on in this city. And now Signature can be doing more of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Norton, far left, and James Houghton at Signature Center, which opens Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FILM (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); HISTORY (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (67%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1378 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Portugal Suffers as Loss of Confidence in Bonds Sends Yields Higher

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Investors fled out of bonds of weaker European countries on Monday, sending yields on Portuguese government bonds to a record high over concerns that the euro zone debt troubles were spreading beyond Greece.
The fears of contagion spreading to other periphery countries in the zone that share the euro have grown more intense in recent months, with much of the latest focus on Portugal.
Yields on Portuguese 10-year government bonds closed at 16.58 percent, the highest they have been since the start of the euro currency and up from 14.645 percent on Friday. 
The higher yields means that the Portuguese government has to pay significantly more interest than, for instance, Spain, whose yields on 10-year bonds were around 4.98 percent on Monday.
Bond yields in the United States fell to their lowest levels in more than a month as investors sought out the safety of United States Treasuries. On Wall Street, stock indexes fell slightly over the uncertainty in Europe.
Portugal, which is in a recession and has been lowered to junk grade by ratings agencies, has less debt than Greece but there was still a growing belief that the country would have to ask for a bigger bailout than initially expected.
''I think there is a growing belief that Portugal is the next Greece, and the market is slowly pricing that in,'' said Anthony Valeri, a fixed-income investment strategist at LPL Financial.
But other analysts noted that Portugal was in far better shape economically than Greece. It has 100 percent debt-to-gross domestic product ratio compared with a ratio of about 160 percent for Greece, said Charles Diebel, head of market strategy at Lloyds Banking in London.
''To a degree, yes, Portugal's in trouble,'' Mr. Diebel said. ''But the problems there are nothing like in Greece.''
European leaders meeting in Brussels on Monday appeared poised to agree to tougher new measures to enforce budget discipline in the euro zone as Greece continues to try to reach a deal with its private sector creditors on how much of a loss they will be willing to accept on their bond holdings.
Yields were also pushed higher for Italian bonds, a reminder that much is necessary to address investors' concerns even as European leaders try to work out a Greek aid package.
Still, the Italian government was able to pull off a bond auction on Monday, selling 7.5 billion euros ($9.9 billion) of long-term bonds. The yields on its 10-year bonds were set at 6.08 percent -- sharply down from the 6.98 percent it last paid to sell such debt.
It was the first test of market appetite since Friday, when Fitch Ratings cut Italy's debt rating by two notches.
Investors also sought out German bonds, sending that nation's 10-year yield down 0.06 percentage points to 1.78 percent.
Investor demand for United States 10-year Treasuries was higher, sending prices up 13/32, to 101 12/32. The yield fell to 1.85 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 19, when it was 1.81 percent.
Stocks gave up some ground on European debt worries. The broader market as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 0.3 percent to 1,313.01, while the Dow Jones industrial average was down 0.05 percent at 12,653.72, and the Nasdaq was down 0.2 percent, to 2,811.94.
While European leaders were meeting, the sense of urgency has been dulled somewhat by policy action from the European Central Bank last month. The central bank introduced what it called longer-term refinancing operations, under which it offers financial institutions unlimited cash at the bank's overnight interest rate, currently 1 percent, in exchange for a wide variety of collateral.
The stresses showed up in the cost of insuring sovereign debt.
Credit-default swap rates on the government debt of Italy, Spain and Portugal each widened, with the costs on Monday of insuring $10 million of Portuguese debt for five years increasing to $1.53 million annually, from $1.41 million on Friday, according to the data provider Markit.
In a sign of hope for the European economy, the European Commission reported a mild improvement in its monthly economic sentiment indicator for January, the first rise since March 2011. The commission said most of the increase came from the service sector, with smaller positive contributions from the consumer and construction sectors.
But new data showed Spain was sliding toward recession, with the economy contracting in the fourth quarter after a stagnant third quarter.
Gross domestic product shrank by 0.3 percent in the October-December period from the July-September quarter, when the economy marked time, the National Statistics Institute reported in Madrid. From a year earlier, the economy eked out fourth-quarter growth of 0.3 percent.
''The G.D.P. outlook for Spain is pretty grim,'' Ben May, an economist with Capital Economics in London, said. ''We think it will continue to contract on a sustained basis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A closed shop in downtown Lisbon. Portugal might need a bigger bailout than expected as its debt interest soars past 16 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFAEL MARCHANTE/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); MARKETING STRATEGY (70%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (66%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (97%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (93%); ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1379 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Personal Health: Communities Learn the Good Life Can Be a Killer

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
Developers in the last half-century called it progress when they built homes and shopping malls far from city centers throughout the country, sounding the death knell for many downtowns. But now an alarmed cadre of public health experts say these expanded metropolitan areas have had a far more serious impact on the people who live there by creating vehicle-dependent environments that foster obesity, poor health, social isolation, excessive stress and depression.
As a result, these experts say, our ''built environment'' - where we live, work, play and shop - has become a leading cause of disability and death in the 21st century. Physical activity has been disappearing from the lives of young and old, and many communities are virtual ''food deserts,'' serviced only by convenience stores that stock nutrient-poor prepared foods and drinks. 
According to Dr. Richard J. Jackson, professor and chairman of environmental health sciences at the University of California, Los Angeles, unless changes are made soon in the way many of our neighborhoods are constructed, people in the current generation (born since 1980) will be the first in America to live shorter lives than their parents do.
Although a decade ago urban planning was all but missing from public health concerns, a sea change has occurred. At a meeting of the American Public Health Association in October, Dr. Jackson said, there were about 300 presentations on how the built environment inhibits or fosters the ability to be physically active and get healthy food.
In a healthy environment, he said, ''people who are young, elderly, sick or poor can meet their life needs without getting in a car,'' which means creating places where it is safe and enjoyable to walk, bike, take in nature and socialize.
''People who walk more weigh less and live longer,'' Dr. Jackson said. ''People who are fit live longer. People who have friends and remain socially active live longer. We don't need to prove all of this,'' despite the plethora of research reports demonstrating the ill effects of current community structures.
The Price of Progress
''We've become the victims of our own success,'' Dr. Jackson said of the public health mission that cleared cities of congested slums. ''By living far from where we work, we reduced crowding and improved the quality of our air and water, which drove down rates of infectious disease.'' But as people have moved farther and farther from where they work, shop and socialize, the rates of chronic diseases have soared.
Public transportation has not kept pace with the expansion of suburbs and exurbs. Nor are there enough sidewalks, nearby parks and safe places to walk, cycle or play outdoors in many, if not most, towns. Parents spend hours in cars getting to and from work; children are bused or driven to and from school; and those who can't drive must depend on others to take them everywhere or risk becoming socially isolated.
In 1974, 66 percent of all children walked or biked to school By 2000, that number had dropped to 13 percent.
''Children who grow up in suburbia can't meet their life needs without getting a ride somewhere,'' Dr. Jackson said. ''The average teen in suburbia says it's boring.''
His new book, ''Designing Healthy Communities,'' a companion piece to a coming public television series, says: ''When there is nearly nothing within walking distance to interest a young person and it is near-lethal to bicycle, he or she must relinquish autonomy - a capacity every creature must develop just as much as strength and endurance.'' The book was written with Stacy Sinclair, director of education at the Media Policy Center in Santa Monica, Calif.
''We've engineered physical activity out of children's lives,'' Dr. Jackson said in an interview. ''Only a quarter of the children in California can pass a basic fitness test, and two in seven volunteers for the military can't get in because they're not in good enough physical condition.''
The health consequences, he said, are terrifying. Not only are Americans of all ages fatter than ever, but also growing numbers of children are developing diseases once seen only in adults: Type 2 diabetes, heart disease and fatty livers.
Can Our Suburbs Be Saved?
The four-part series that Dr. Jackson developed with the documentary producers Dale Bell and Harry Wiland, to be broadcast in the spring, highlights changes being made in forward-thinking communities - changes that foster better physical and mental health by redesigning the built environment.
''Health happens in neighborhoods, not doctors' offices,'' Dr. Jackson states in one of the programs.
Metropolitan Atlanta, which is 8,000 square miles and growing and where workers drive an average of 66 miles a day, has suffered the ill effects of high ozone levels, few sidewalks and bike lanes, and crosswalks as much as a mile apart. In what may be the crown jewel in environmental restructuring for better health, the city plans to create an urban paradise from an abandoned railroad corridor over the next two decades, with light rail and 22 miles of walking and biking trails.
In Lakewood, Colo., an abandoned shopping mall (a blight now rampant in suburbia) was converted into housing, businesses and play areas.
Syracuse is converting an old saltworks district into a mixed-income, energy-smart housing and business area, giving residents easy access to work and recreation. The local supermarket, Nojaim's, offers health and nutrition classes and weekly health checks, and a mobile farmers' market serves an area that lacks grocery stores.
Another jewel in environmental restructuring is Elgin, Ill., where an island park was created in the middle of the rejuvenated Fox River and a former Superfund site known as auto dealers' row is now Festival Park, giving families a place to gather for water play, picnics and musical performances. A Bikeway Master Plan will eventually connect all the neighborhoods, and easy access to the river has spurred investment.
''For every dollar the city has spent, we have leveraged that into two or three dollars of private investment through new kinds of buildings, row houses and businesses that have opened because the river has a magnetic quality,'' said a former mayor of Elgin, Ed Schock. He might have added another economic benefit: the prospect of lower health care costs.
Further information on healthier communities can be found at designinghealthycommunities.org.
This is the first of three articles on healthier communities. Next week: improving access to walking and cycling. nThis is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ACTIVE ANTIDOTE: Atlanta, where urban sprawl has affected health, is turning an old rail corridor into a trail network. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER T. MARTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); CITIES (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PREPARED FOODS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); NUTRITION (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); OBESITY (72%); DEPRESSION (71%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1380 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Revamping Cuts Profit At Gannett

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Gannett on Monday reported a 33 percent drop in fourth-quarter net income, saying profits were weighed down by reorganization costs and other charges.
The media company, which publishes USA Today and owns a network of broadcast, digital and other publishing properties, said it earned $116.9 million, or 49 cents a share, in the three months that ended Dec. 25. That was down from earnings of $174.1 million, or 72 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
Excluding special items like reorganization charges, Gannett earned 72 cents a share in the quarter. Analysts expected earnings of 68 cents a share, according to FactSet.
The company said its results reflected $63.6 million in charges related to work force and facility consolidations at properties in the United States and Britain. The largest was associated with the transfer of production of The Cincinnati Enquirer to a newspaper printer in Columbus, Ohio.
Revenue fell 5 percent, to $1.39 billion from $1.46 billion in the period a year earlier. Analysts were expecting revenue of $1.39 billion.
Revenue at Gannett's publishing division fell 5 percent, to $1.01 billion, a decline the company attributed to lower advertising amid the economic softness in the United States and Britain.
Broadcasting revenue fell 14 percent, to $199.8 million, mainly because of less political advertising than a year earlier.
Revenue at the company's digital division, which includes the Web site CareerBuilder, rose 9.4 percent, to $181.5 million.
Companywide digital revenue, which consists of the digital division and revenue generated by newspaper Web sites, rose 6.5 percent, to $290.3 million.
For the full year, Gannett earned $458.7 million, or $1.89 a share, down 22 percent from $588.2 million, or $2.43 a share, in the previous year. Adjusted earnings were $2.13 a share.
Shares of Gannett fell 6.9 percent, or $1.05, to $14.17 on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (66%)

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (92%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1381 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: The Shortfall in Cancer Screening

 BODY:
A new federal study found that Americans are getting screened for three major cancers -- breast, cervical and colorectal -- at rates far below national targets. The shortfall is especially high among adults who lack insurance or regular access to a doctor, partly because the recession drove employers to lay off workers or cut health benefits. 
Many low- and middle-income people are now unable or unwilling to pay for screening tests or visits to the doctor. Their plight underscores the urgent need to retain the health care reform law that will expand proven screening and prevention programs at no charge to patients.
The study, based on a survey taken in 2010, was conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Cancer Institute. The three types of cancer were chosen for scrutiny because there is good evidence that, for certain age groups, screening for these cancers can reduce illness and save lives.
The survey results were discouraging. The percentage of people getting screened for breast cancer has hit a plateau and for cervical cancer turned slightly downward. In 2010, only 72.4 percent of the women ages 50 to 74 reported getting mammography screening within the previous two years, below the official national goal of 81.1 percent by the end of the decade. Only 83 percent of the eligible women reported having a Pap test to detect cervical cancer within the pervious three years, short of the 93 percent goal. The percentage of men and women between the ages of 50 and 74 getting screened for colorectal cancer has improved markedly, but it rose to only 58.6 percent in 2010, below the target of 70.5 percent.
The health care reform law will ensure that all Americans have access to vital preventive care. It already eliminates cost-sharing for the screenings in Medicare and new private policies, and, starting in 2014, it will expand Medicaid for the poor and provide subsidies to help middle-income people buy private health insurance. Republicans won't stop pressing for repeal of the law. American consumers, so many of whom are struggling to pay their health care bills, need to think a lot harder about what they would lose if Republicans get their way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (95%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (91%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (91%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); CERVICAL CANCER (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); WOMEN (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MEN (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (56%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1382 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Daughter's Illness Is a Constant Challenge, and a Rallying Point, for Santorum

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and SUSAN SAULNY; Pam Belluck contributed reporting from New York City.

 BODY:
TAMPA -- Isabella Santorum, the fragile 3-year-old daughter of Rick Santorum, has pulled through again.
She came down with pneumonia over the weekend, a frightening turn of events given that Bella, as she is known, received a diagnosis of a fatal chromosomal disorder called Trisomy 18 shortly after her birth and has lived longer than most babies born with the illness. About two weeks after her birth, doctors sent her home from the hospital on hospice care, which is usually reserved for the end of life, not the beginning, saying her condition was ''incompatible with life.''
Bella's condition is a constant challenge for the entire family, especially for Mr. Santorum's wife, Karen, and their six other children. 
But her health issues present another kind of challenge to Mr. Santorum. As a presidential candidate, he is constantly traveling and must devote considerable time and energy to his campaign. Yet he is still a father. And ultimately, voters may judge him on both of his roles -- as a candidate and a parent.
''I think his priorities are right, if you have a sick child -- whether you're running for dog catcher or president of the United States -- your family comes first,'' said Gail Hebert, president of the St. Petersburg Republican Club in Florida.
By chance, Mr. Santorum was already with his family when he and his wife noticed that Bella had fallen ill; he had returned home from the campaign trail to retrieve his tax information.
But politically, the timing was awkward. Despite his victory in the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3, Mr. Santorum has not come close to winning anywhere else and is trailing badly in the polls here for the Florida primary on Tuesday. He has been trying to beat back rumors that he is aiming for the vice-presidential slot or that he will quit the race and urge his conservative supporters to back Newt Gingrich in an effort to stop the more moderate Mitt Romney.
To that end, his campaign moved quickly Sunday -- even as Bella was still in the hospital wearing an oxygen mask -- to assure his donors and supporters that he was pressing ahead. In a conference call from her hospital room on Sunday night, Mr. Santorum said that Bella had a ''miraculous turnaround'' and that he would rejoin the campaign trail on Monday.
By Monday afternoon, he was in Missouri giving an economic address and had planned other events in Colorado, Minnesota and Nevada through Tuesday.
The situation bears some similarities to John Edwards's presidential bid during the last election cycle, when his wife, Elizabeth, had a recurrence of cancer that had been in remission for years. At the time, aides insisted that Mrs. Edwards's condition did not alter the course of her husband's campaign, although his decision to continue running ignited widespread public debate while her plight often threatened to overshadow his candidacy. Mrs. Edwards died in December 2010.
Similarly, Bella has emerged as the emotional centerpiece of Mr. Santorum's campaign. His references to her are easily the most riveting moments of his speeches, usually leaving audiences silent and weepy. He has even built entire speeches around Bella's story, telling certain audiences, especially those in churches, every painful detail of her birth and how the family has embraced her as a blessing.
On the campaign trail, the Santorums share the lessons they have drawn from Bella. Mr. Santorum told a church gathering in Charleston, S.C., that Bella can never ''do'' anything in her life in the traditional sense, except love him.
''She is a font of love,'' he said. ''And she made me understand that that's how the Father looks at me. I'm disabled and unable to 'do' anything for him -- except love him. And he loves me unconditionally.''
Many in the congregation wiped away tears.
Mr. Santorum concluded that he had decided to run for president even with a child who needed so much ''because we wanted to make sure we had a health care system and we had a society that respected the dignity of every human life. And what better way to go out and defend that than by talking about the dignity of every human life in our own lives?''
Victoria Miller, executive director of the Trisomy 18 Foundation, said that many pregnancies involving the disorder result in miscarriage and that half of the babies carried to term are stillborn. Only 10 percent of babies with the condition live past the first year.
''The child who makes it to 3 is a rare child, but also has had really good access to medical care,'' Ms. Miller said. She said that children who live longer often have parents who opt for surgery or other treatment to prolong life as long as possible and have health insurance to pay for it. Some families, for philosophical or other reasons, opt mostly for palliative care.
Those who survive usually have severe developmental delays and may need home nursing and occupational and physical therapy. ''The best-case scenario is lots of intervention therapies to help them master some of the milestones like sitting up and holding up their head,'' Ms. Miller said. ''They may be on oxygen. They may have feeding tubes. Most children are not ambulatory and are not verbal and require lifetime care.''
Steve Schmidt, a Republican strategist, acknowledged that some people may consider Bella's illness too much of a distraction for someone seeking such a high-profile office. To those people, he said, he would offer the example of President Abraham Lincoln.
''Lincoln lost a son in 1862 and became one of our greatest,'' Mr. Schmidt said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Sarasota, Fla., a well-wisher had a message for 3-year-old Isabella Santorum, at left with her father, the candidate Rick Santorum, last June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); PNEUMONIA (78%); CANCER (77%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); HOSPICE (72%); DEATH & DYING (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (52%); JOHN EDWARDS (52%); NEWT GINGRICH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (89%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1383 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Pregnant, and Pushed Out of a Job

BYLINE: By DINA BAKST


HIGHLIGHT: Dina Bakst, a lawyer, is a founder and president of A Better Balance: The Work and Family Legal Center.

 BODY:
FEW people realize that getting pregnant can mean losing your job. Imagine a woman who, seven months into her pregnancy, is fired from her position as a cashier because she needed a few extra bathroom breaks. Or imagine another pregnant employee who was fired from her retail job after giving her supervisors a doctor's note requesting she be allowed to refrain from heavy lifting and climbing ladders during the month and a half before her maternity leave: that's what happened to Patricia Leahy. In 2008 a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled that her firing was fair because her employers were not obligated to accommodate her needs.
We see this kind of case in our legal clinic all the time. It happens every day to pregnant women in the United States, and it happens thanks to a gap between discrimination laws and disability laws. 
Federal and state laws ban discrimination against pregnant women in the workplace. And amendments to the Americans With Disabilities Act require employers to provide reasonable accommodations to disabled employees (including most employees with medical complications arising from pregnancies) who need them to do their jobs. But because pregnancy itself is not considered a disability, employers are not obligated to accommodate most pregnant workers in any way.
As a result, thousands of pregnant women are pushed out of jobs that they are perfectly capable of performing -- either put on unpaid leave or simply fired -- when they request an accommodation to help maintain a healthy pregnancy. Many are single mothers or a family's primary breadwinner. They are disproportionately low-income women, often in physically demanding jobs with little flexibility.
Thankfully, State Senator Liz Krueger, a Democrat from Manhattan, and Assemblywoman Aileen Gunther, a Democrat from Sullivan County, have introduced legislation to fill this gap in New York. Their bills -- S. 6273 and A. 9114 -- would require employers to provide reasonable accommodations for pregnant women whose health care providers say they need them, unless doing so would be an undue hardship for the employer.
These accommodations could include providing a seat for employees who spend long periods standing, allowing more frequent restroom breaks, limiting heavy lifting or transferring an employee to a less strenuous or hazardous position. As of 2010, seven states, including California, had passed laws requiring private employers to provide at least some accommodations. And they have been used countless times to help pregnant women keep their jobs.
This kind of law is a public health necessity. Without its protections, pregnant women are reluctant to ask for the accommodations they need for their own health and for the health of their unborn children. For many women, a choice between working under unhealthy conditions and not working is no choice at all. In addition, women who can work longer into their pregnancies often qualify for longer periods of leave following childbirth, which facilitates breastfeeding, bonding with and caring for a new child and a smoother and healthier recovery from childbirth.
Pregnancy-related accommodations also promote economic security for families. Women who are forced early into unpaid leave are set back with lost wages and, when they return to work, with missed advancement opportunities. Women who are let go don't just lose out on critical income -- they must fight extra hard to re-enter a job market that is especially brutal on the unemployed. Worse yet, they often confront a bias against hiring mothers with small children.
Finally, employers might consider that providing accommodations to pregnant workers would even be good for the bottom line, in the form of reduced turnover, increased loyalty and productivity and healthier workers. With minor job modifications, a woman might be able to work up until the delivery of her child and return to work fairly soon after giving birth. If she were forced out instead, her employer would waste time and money finding a replacement. In the worst-case scenario, employers could be responsible for much higher medical costs if their workers were afraid to ask for accommodations and instead continued doing work that endangered their pregnancies.
Three-quarters of women now entering the work force will become pregnant on the job, yet gaps in our civil rights laws leave this enormous class without the right to the modest accommodations that would protect them. New York's Legislature should pass this law as soon as possible, and other states should follow. No pregnant woman in this country should have to choose between her job and a healthy pregnancy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STINA LOFGREN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (94%); DISMISSALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); SICK LEAVE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LAWYERS (75%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); BREASTFEEDING (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); JUDGES (70%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (68%); DISABLED ACCESS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1384 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 704 words

PERSON: Joseph Brooks 

HEADLINE: Joseph Brooks, Who Refined Lord & Taylor, Dies at 84

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Joseph E. Brooks, a retail executive who doubled the size of the Lord & Taylor chain and made its flagship New York store a showplace of spectacle, including elaborate retail stagecraft and a daily morning rendition of ''The Star-Spangled Banner,'' died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 84.
The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Elizabeth Rains. Mr. Brooks lived in Greenwich, Conn. 
Mr. Brooks became chairman and chief executive of Lord & Taylor in 1975 during a recession brought on by the 1973 oil embargo, convinced that expansion was the cure for the company's lagging sales. He added 26 stores to the chain, which had 19 when he began, and by the time he resigned in 1987 had more than quadrupled annual sales, to $825 million from about $200 million.
The Fifth Avenue flagship became a promotional stage and Mr. Brooks its frequent master of ceremonies. He oversaw a $5 million renovation that included the installation of travertine marble floors, mirrored columns and walls and teak wood cabinetry.
He inaugurated a ceremony, the Rose Award, which became an annual black tie event of the New York social calendar, held on the newly beautified first floor. The award honored a distinguished American -- Beverly Sills, Claudette Colbert, Lillian Hellman and Ella Fitzgerald were among the recipients -- and filled the store for the night with the kind of people Mr. Brooks apparently wanted shoppers to think of when they entered a Lord & Taylor.
He told The New York Times in 1976 that he viewed Lord & Taylor as a store ''that appeals to mass with class -- people with good taste and understated elegance who like to buy investment clothes.'' By investment clothes, he said, he meant expensive things that would last and could be worn for special occasions year after year.
''This was all before the Walmarts and Targets came along, and changed the retail business,'' said Gerald Blum, who was executive vice president for marketing and sales when Mr. Brooks was president. ''He had a flair for the theatrical, and a real love of the business.''
Mr. Brooks was credited with nurturing and promoting American clothing designers, including the young Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren, at a time when European fashion was dominant among major American retailers.
Beginning in 1980, during the Iran hostage crisis, Mr. Brooks ordered that ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' be played each morning at the start of business throughout the store. He wanted to remind people, he said, that ''with all its problems, this is still the greatest country in the world.''
He was born in Philadelphia on Nov. 2, 1927, and attended public schools and Pennsylvania State University before entering the sales training program at an Abraham & Straus store in Brooklyn. Before joining Lord & Taylor, the largest division of the Associated Dry Goods Corporation, he was president of Filene's Basement in Boston and held several executive positions in stores owned by the former Federated Department Stores Inc., now known as Macy's Inc.
In addition to his daughter Elizabeth, Mr. Brooks is survived by his wife, Alice; a son, Thomas; another daughter, Victoria, and five grandchildren.
Mr. Brooks acknowledged deep disappointment at not becoming chief executive of Lord & Taylor's parent company, an ambition that was thwarted in 1986 when Associated was acquired by May Department Stores. After resigning in 1987, he led a leveraged buyout of the Ann Taylor chain for $430 million. He added almost 100 new stores to that retail chain before a downturn in sales led him to resign in 1992.
But Lord & Taylor was always first in Mr. Brooks's heart, Mr. Blum said.
Mr. Brooks, he said, told friends he would have run the place for nothing.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Tuesday about Joseph E. Brooks, the former chairman and chief executive of the Lord & Taylor retail chain, misspelled part of the name of the store where he entered the sales training program after attending Pennsylvania State University and misidentified the city in which it was located. It was Abraham & Straus, not Abraham & Strauss, and it was in Brooklyn, not in Philadelphia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph E. Brooks with store renovation sketches in 1976. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); RETAIL SALES (78%); LEUKEMIA (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); SALES & SELLING (70%); SALES TRAINING (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); FASHION DESIGN (63%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (62%); SALES MANAGEMENT (61%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%)

COMPANY: LORD & TAYLOR LLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (92%)

RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

CATEGORY: Fashion Design

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012



1385 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Slip on European Sentiment

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Wall Street stock indexes recovered from steep losses on Monday, but still closed lower, as a spike in Portuguese bond yields and the still-unresolved Greek debt talks raised investors' fears that the European and global economies face greater risks. 
A rise in the yield on Portuguese government bonds to more than 17 percent, the highest level since the launch of the euro, sparked fears that Lisbon will follow in Greece's footsteps and require a second bailout.
And a European Union summit that was to focus on reviving growth and creating jobs failed to deliver the hoped-for message of optimism as Greece and its private bondholders continued to struggle to reach a deal.
''Until this deal is actually done, there are going to be concerns. The longer it takes there is more suspicion that there is something wrong,'' said Michael Yoshikami, chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, Calif. ''They've been saying they're on the verge of a deal for a long time.''
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 0.1 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.3 percent. The Nasdaq composite index lost 0.2 percent.
While sentiment had improved over the euro zone this year, with the S.&P. 500 up 4.7 percent through Friday, many investors still view the region with caution as setbacks in solving its sovereign debt problems could hamper international economic growth and erode domestic bank profits.
The Euro Stoxx 50 of euro zone blue chips closed off 1.3 percent. The DAX lost 1 percent and the CAC 40 was behind 1.6 percent. An index of European banks lost 3.3 percent.
The euro was down 0.78 percent at $1.3121.
Standard & Poor's late Friday issued negative ratings on three brokerage firms, including Jefferies Group, citing the impact of a prolonged crisis in Europe.
Issues in Europe had taken a back seat to the focus on corporate earnings in recent weeks. By the end of last week, a majority of companies had topped analyst consensus expectations, though by a lower rate than in previous quarters.
On Monday, Gannett reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings that beat expectations. Amazon.com, Exxon Mobil and Pfizer were on tap for later this week.
Shares of The Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe & Jack soared 25 percent after the company agreed to be bought by Gores Group for $791 million.
The Swiss engineering group ABB agreed to buy Thomas & Betts, an American electrical components maker, for $3.9 billion in cash, sending shares of the company up 22 percent.
Consumer spending in the United States was flat in December as households took advantage of the largest rise in income in nine months to boost their savings, setting the tone for a slowdown in demand early in 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); EURO (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); ELECTRICAL COMPONENT & DEVICE MFG (62%); ENGINEERING (60%)

COMPANY: ABB LTD (80%); JEFFERIES GROUP INC (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); THOMAS & BETTS CORP (51%); PFIZER INC (51%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (80%); ABJ (FRA) (80%); ABBN (SWX) (80%); ABB (STO) (80%); ABB (NYSE) (80%); ABB (NSE) (80%); JEF (NYSE) (53%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (80%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (80%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (80%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (92%); PORTUGAL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1386 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Spending Was Stagnant in December, Though Incomes Rose

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The income of Americans rose in December by the most in nine months, a hopeful sign for the economy.
But the increase did not result in more spending; instead, Americans saved their extra cash. 
Income rose 0.5 percent from November to December, the Commerce Department said Monday, in its sharpest advance since March. Spending in December was unchanged, following scant gains of 0.1 percent in both October and November.
Economists noted that income rose last month largely because of strong hiring. In December, the economy added 200,000 jobs, meaning more income available to spend. On Friday, the government is expected to report another solid month of hiring in January.
Despite the added income last month, Americans increased their savings. The savings rate rose to 4 percent of after-tax incomes in December, up from 3.5 percent in November.
If consumers continue to save additional income rather than spend it, the economy could slow. That could in turn force employers to pull back on hiring. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of economic activity.
For 2011, the savings rate dipped to 4.4 percent from 5.3 percent in 2010. The savings rate had fallen to 1.5 percent in 2005, reflecting a housing boom that allowed people to feel more prosperous, and spurred them to spend more and save less.
Nonetheless, many economists are still expecting continued job gains to create more spending across the economy.
''The pace of job growth in recent months, while still not satisfactory compared to most past cycles, at least seems sufficient to generate enough income growth to keep consumer spending moving ahead at a modest pace,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc.
Adjusted for inflation, after-tax income rose 0.3 percent in December. For the year, inflation-adjusted income rose 0.9 percent. That was half the rise of 2010.
Inflation-adjusted consumer spending rose just 2.2 percent last year, slightly better than the increase of 2010. The flat consumer spending in December was in contrast to the slight gain in retail sales during the month.
One reason for the conflicting data is that the consumer spending report covers a wider range of goods and services not measured by the retail sales report, like utilities, airline tickets and hotel rooms.
Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, also noted that the consumer spending report came out a few weeks after the retail sales report, so it had more complete data.
Nonetheless, Mr. Naroff said the large gain in income in December reflected the solid number of jobs created.
''More jobs created mean more income and more consumer spending,'' he said.
Unemployment fell to 8.5 percent last month -- the lowest level in nearly three years -- after a sixth straight month of solid hiring.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace
 Personal Income and Spending: In trillions (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); RETAIL SALES (65%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1387 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In Victory for the West, W.T.O. Orders China to Stop Export Taxes on Minerals

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The appeals panel of the World Trade Organization ruled on Monday that China must dismantle its system of export taxes and quotas for nine widely used industrial materials.
The legal setback for Beijing could set a precedent for the West to challenge China's export restrictions on other natural resources, including rare earth metals that are crucial to many modern technologies, trade experts said.
In the closely watched case, the trade organization's Appellate Body, its highest tribunal, ruled that China distorted international trade through dozens of export policies it maintains for bauxite, zinc, yellow phosphorus and six other industrial minerals. 
The Appellate Body, reviewing an earlier decision by a W.T.O. dispute settlement panel, said the panel had gone too far in defining why more than three dozen Chinese policies violated free trade rules. But the appeals group said on Monday that the overall effect of China's export restrictions was harming international trade and the policies would have to be scrapped.
The case was filed in 2009 against China by the United States, the European Union and Mexico.
''This is a major win for the United States,'' said James Bacchus, a former chairman and longtime member of the Appellate Body, who now helps lead the global trade practice in the Washington office of the law firm Greenberg Traurig.
Mr. Bacchus predicted that China would comply with the World Trade Organization ruling. Beijing has a strong record of adhering to adverse W.T.O. decisions, recognizing that it needs the access to foreign markets that the trade organization provides.
China's commerce ministry said in a statement on its Web site that it regretted the ruling but appeared to indicate it would accept it, saying that it would act in accordance with W.T.O. rules to ''achieve sustainable development.''
Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said in a statement that the ruling was ''a tremendous victory'' for the United States. ''Today's decision,'' he said, ''ensures that core manufacturing industries in this country can get the materials they need to produce and compete on a level playing field.''
The case has been one of the most widely watched trade disputes in many years because of the precedents it could set for other, even more crucial natural resources. Those will almost certainly include China's export quotas on rare earth metals, for which Chinese policies appear to have raised similar legal concerns.
Rare earths, however, were not part of the trade case on which the trade organization ruled Monday. Besides bauxite, zinc and yellow phosphorus, the other six industrial minerals are coke, fluorspar, magnesium, manganese, silicon carbide and silicon metal.
China is the largest or among the largest producers of each of these. The United States, European Union and Mexico accused China of using export taxes and quotas to force international chemical companies and other businesses to move their factories to China to tap these resources.
Those sorts of forced migrations are the reason international trade rules bar export quotas in many cases. Many non-Chinese companies have already been setting up factories in China, for example, to gain access to the crucial rare earth metals used in a wide range of modern technologies, since China began clamping down on rare earth exports in recent years.
China produces over 90 percent of the world's rare earths, which are used in products including computers, cellphones, hybrid cars and wind turbines.
In defense of those rare earth quotas, China had cited a decades-old legal exception to the W.T.O.'s predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, known as GATT. That exception let countries levy export taxes and restrict exports if the limits were aimed at conserving a scarce natural resource or protecting the environment.
But when China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, it agreed to dismantle virtually all export restrictions, including on industrial raw materials. That agreement superseded the GATT provisions, the appeals group ruled on Monday.
China's agreement to join the W.T.O. also bars it from imposing export restrictions on rare earths. Yet China has done so anyway for the last five years, invoking the same GATT exception.
While Appellate Body rulings do not form legally binding precedents under international trade law, Mr. Bacchus said it was very unlikely that the trade organization would let China use the environmental argument on rare earths after disallowing the same argument for industrial raw materials.
Indeed, a European Union trade official signaled that Europe might apply Monday's ruling to pressure China to lift its export restrictions on rare earth metals.
''China now must comply by removing these export restrictions swiftly, and furthermore I expect China to bring its overall export regime -- including for rare earths -- in line with W.T.O. rules,'' said Karel De Gucht, the European Union's trade commissioner.
International trade officials have said little on the record about why rare earth metals were not included when the United States and European Union filed the original trade case in June 2009. Mexico joined the case on the American and European side in August of that year.
Some of the explanations offered on background included the view that the United States was not worried because it had plans to reopen a rare earth mine in the Southern California desert, and that the European Union was not worried because its companies planned to depend on a mine under construction in Australia. There was also a Western perception in mid-2009 that rare earths were not controversial because they were relatively cheap.
But rare earth prices began climbing sharply less than two months after the filing of the W.T.O. case, after word began to spread in August 2009 that China's commerce ministry had considered a plan to halt exports entirely for some of the rarest of the rare earths -- the so-called heavy rare earths -- and to curtail exports for other rare earth metals.
Rare earth prices spiked in the autumn of 2010, after China suspended exports of the metals to Japan for two months as part of a territorial dispute over an uninhabited island. And China's commerce ministry ended up sharply reducing its annual export quotas for 2010 and 2011.
Western governments have periodically considered filing an international trade case against nations in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries for limiting oil exports. But they have refrained from filing, having concluded that even an adverse ruling would be unlikely to prompt heavily oil-dependent countries to change their policies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A phosphate mine in Yunnan province. China's steep export taxes have pressured chemical makers to shift production to China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (94%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); LAWYERS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1388 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: In Studios and Grand Halls, Feeling a Pinch From Italy

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
As Italy's new government scrambles to stave off economic disaster, the budget cuts it has imposed are rippling through Italian institutions in New York City, slicing into paychecks and prompting plans to shut down a venerable state-owned television operation.
At the Italian consulate on the Upper East Side, staff members have had their salaries reduced, and officials there are considering closing their nearest satellite office, in Newark. Downstairs, at the Italian American Committee on Education, the annual budget was reduced by about a third. Several blocks away, the Italian trade commission staved off an auction of the mansion it occupies, but has stopped running advertisements for its Made in Italy campaign. 
''All of the administration in Italy is going to be rationalized,'' said Lucia Pasqualini, deputy consul in New York. ''For sure, every public sector will be influenced'' by the austerity measures being determined in Rome, she said.
Mario Monti, who succeeded Silvio Berlusconi as prime minister late last year, has been pressing the Italian government to reduce spending and change customs that he argues have made Italy less competitive. On Friday, the Fitch ratings agency lowered its rating on Italy's debt but said the reduction would have been bigger if not for Mr. Monti's proposed reforms.
Ms. Pasqualini said that she and her colleagues had sustained cuts in their pay because of the financial crisis gripping southern Europe, but she said she felt lucky that she still had her job. She added that the consulate was considering closing its office in Newark, which provides visas and assistance to Italian citizens. If it closed, she said, the employees there would probably be offered positions at the New York offices, on Park Avenue.
At RAI Corporation, the North American operation of Italy's national broadcasting network, the proposed action is more drastic. The company, which has produced television and radio reports for more than half a century, has notified 66 employees in New York that they will probably lose their jobs by April.
The shutdown would leave RAI's correspondents without their own state-of-the-art studios in Manhattan. No longer would they be able to stand on one of the terraces outside RAI's offices in TriBeCa and report on events with the city skyline as a backdrop. Instead, they would have to go to the studios of another company, like The Associated Press, to produce their reports.
But the workers, more than half of whom are members of a local union, are resisting and complaining that they are being treated differently from their peers in Rome. In a letter to the company's lawyer, a lawyer for the unionized employees warned that the scheduled shutdown and plan to outsource the production of television and radio news reports would violate the workers' contract and American labor law. In the letter, the union's lawyer, Steven E. Star, questioned the authority of Guido Corso, the president of RAI Corporation.
''We would like to be clear that we do not believe that Guido Corso is authorized or capable of negotiating over either the decision to close and contract out the bargaining unit's work, nor the impact of such a decision,'' Mr. Star said in his letter to Peter A. Walker, a lawyer in Manhattan who represents RAI.
Last week, before the letter was sent, Mr. Corso said that the company ''decided to have a different situation in the States.'' He said that RAI would ''probably outsource the production work that is provided by this company to an outside service.''
Mr. Corso later declined to comment further because he said that negotiations with the employees had not concluded.
The deputy consul, Ms. Pasqualini, said the consulate had expressed its support for RAI Corporation as an important part of the Italian-American community in New York. But she said there was little more the consulate could do.
The closing of RAI's operation would be a big loss for Italian speakers in the metropolitan area, said Anthony Tamburri, the dean of the John D. Calandra Italian-American Institute at Queens College.
Dr. Tamburri said he had been interviewed for two shows --''Italia Chiama Italia'' and ''Focus'' -- on RAI's international channel aimed at Italians living outside Italy. ''Just those two shows alone are extremely important because what they do is they create this network of information,'' Dr. Tamburri said.
The employees of RAI, of course, are most concerned about the potential loss of their jobs in New York when not much hiring is happening in the broadcasting business. One employee said that Mr. Corso had indicated that workers with Italian citizenship might be able to find other positions with the parent network in Rome. But that outcome is not assured because the New York operation is an American corporation, meaning the employees lack the job security that Italian law would afford them.
''It's very hard to fire someone'' in Italy, Dr. Tamburri said. ''There is this thought process that you have to do everything you can to make sure everyone has a job.''
The budget cuts at the trade commission influenced its decision last year to sell its five-story town house on East 67th Street, which was once known as the Hugh D. Auchincloss House. A sealed-bid sale was scheduled, with a minimum price set at $32 million.
Aniello Musella, the executive director of the commission, said that the sale was intended to raise money for the commission's operations but that the sole bid was unacceptable. For now, he said, the commission plans to stay put and find other ways to cope with a tighter budget.
Mr. Musella said the commission was still promoting shoes, clothing and other products made in Italy but had stopped advertising in magazines and other media aimed at consumers. Before the cutbacks, he said, the commission had invested about $2 million in its Made in Italy promotional campaign.
''We are cutting a lot of expense that we had before,'' Mr. Musella said. ''We are trying to make things in-house instead of outsourcing them.''
The Italian Cultural Institute, a neighbor of the consulate, has turned to corporate sponsors to help finance its exhibitions, like the current one, ''150 Years of Italian Genius: Innovations Changing the World,'' said Riccardo Viale, the institute's director.
''Always complaining that there are no public funds is a mistake,'' Mr. Viale said. ''Every year there has been some cut. These cuts are welcome, because they are necessary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANIELLO MUSELLA: An Italian trade commissioner based in New York
Above, a view down a staircase in the Italian consulate on Park Avenue, where staff members have faced salary cuts. At left, the exhibition with ''150 Years of Italian Genius: Innovations Changing the World'' at the Italian Cultural Institute, next door to the consulate.
Mario Monti, the prime minister of Italy. (A18)
 The Manhattan building where RAI Corporation, the North American operation of Italy's national broadcaster, has offices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); LAWYERS (60%)

COMPANY: RAI CORP (65%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ISTITUTO ITALIANO DI CULTURA (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (65%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); ROME, ITALY (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1389 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: College Says It Exaggerated SAT Figures For Ratings

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK and RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Claremont McKenna College, a small, prestigious California school, said Monday that for the past six years, it has submitted false SAT scores to publications like U.S. News & World Report that use the data in widely followed college rankings.
In a message e-mailed to college staff members and students, Claremont McKenna's president since 1999, Pamela B. Gann, wrote that ''a senior administrator'' had taken sole responsibility for falsifying the scores, admitted doing so since 2005, and resigned his post. 
People briefed on the matter said that the administrator was Richard C. Vos, vice president and dean of admissions, whose name was removed in the last few days from the college's online list of top officials.
Mr. Vos, reached at his home Monday night, said: ''No comment. It's an internal personnel matter.''
The critical reading and math scores reported to U.S. News and others ''were generally inflated by an average of 10-20 points each,'' Ms. Gann wrote. For the class that entered the school in September 2010 -- the most recent set of figures made public --the combined median score of 1,400 was reported as 1,410, she said, while the 75th percentile score of 1,480 was reported as 1,510.
Such small differences might influence the rankings, and the deception underscores the importance those rankings have taken on, as colleges fret over the loss of even a notch or two against their competitors.
Robert Franek, the senior vice president of publishing for The Princeton Review, which provides preparation for the SAT and also ranks colleges, said that he had never heard of a college intentionally reporting incorrect data.
''We want to put out very clear information so that students can make an informed decision about their school,'' Mr. Franek said. ''I feel like so many schools have a very clear obligation to college-bound students to report this information honestly.''
The Princeton Review bases its college rankings on student opinion rather than test data, Mr. Franek said, so he was uncertain whether a change as small as that reported would make a difference.
''It's hard for me to say, but that is a small percentage,'' Mr. Franek said. ''That is a pretty mild difference in a point score. That said, 10 points, 30 points to a student that isn't getting that score on the SAT could be an important distinction.''
Claremont McKenna, a liberal arts school with about 1,200 students and a strong focus on political science and economics, is part of the Claremont colleges cluster east of Los Angeles. Long considered a good school, in the last generation it has moved into the elite ranks -- at least as measured by the most-popular ratings.
The current U.S. News rankings list Claremont McKenna as the ninth-best liberal arts college in the country, a fact noted on Ms. Gann's biography on the college's Web site. The Princeton Review gives the college an academic rating of 97 out of 99 and an admissions selectivity rating of 96 out of 99, comparable to some Ivy League schools. It remains to be seen whether the revelation of falsified test scores changes that status.
Ms. Gann wrote in her message that she was first warned of inaccurate reporting this month and asked other administrators to investigate, leading to an administrator's admission of guilt and Monday's announcement.
''At this time, we have no reason to believe that other individuals were involved,'' she wrote. ''As an institution of higher education with a deep and consistent commitment to the integrity of all our academic activities, and particularly our reporting of institutional data, we take this situation very seriously.''
She added that the college has alerted the publishers of college rankings and has hired the law firm O'Melveny & Myers to investigate further.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Pamela B. Gann said ''a senior administrator'' had admitted falsifying test scores since 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE, VIA PRNEWSFOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); RANKINGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (92%); EDUCATION HOLDINGS 1 INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1390 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL UPDATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Treatment: Drug Companies, Nations and Nonprofits Join Effort to Conquer 10 Tropical Diseases

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Thirteen drug companies, the governments of the United States, Britain and the United Arab Emirates, the World Bank, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Lions Club and other smaller charitable organizations on Monday announced a joint effort to tackle 10 neglected tropical diseases in a coordinated fashion. 
The diseases, with multisyllabic names like lymphatic filariasis, visceral leishmaniasis and dracunculiasis, are almost never found in rich countries. Most are usually not fatal -- but they still ruin the lives of subsistence farmers and rural craftsmen by causing blindness, grotesque swelling, chronic anemia, excruciating pain or other symptoms.
Although the diseases have different causes (like worms, flukes or parasites) and are spread by different vectors (like sandflies, tsetse flies or drinking water), some drugs that work against one will work against others. Leprosy, which is caused by bacteria, was one of the 10 diseases.
Some of these drugs lack markets in rich countries and so must be subsidized -- although there are, for example, large sales of deworming drugs for pets and farm animals.
In an announcement at the Royal College of Physicians in London, the partners made various pledges; some drug companies increased the amounts of their donations, while others agreed to let their ''libraries'' of compounds be screened for new uses against tropical diseases. Margaret Chan, above right, director of the World Health Organization, and Bill Gates were among those at the news conference.
The governments and foundations pledged $785 million toward fighting the diseases, but some of that was reiteration of pledges made in the past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL DISEASES (94%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (77%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ANEMIA (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SKIN DISORDERS (57%); BACTERIA (57%); BLINDNESS (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (51%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (84%); ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS (55%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); MARGARET CHAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1391 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Governors Soften Tone After a Rocky 2011

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
A year after a coterie of new Republican governors swept into the statehouses and put in place aggressive agendas to cut spending and curb union powers, sparking strong backlashes in many places, many of them are adopting decidedly more moderate tones as they begin their sophomore year in office.
The efforts to weaken unions have not ended -- witness the recent events in Indianapolis, where the longtime Republican governor, Mitch Daniels, supports making Indiana the first state in the industrial Midwest with so-called right-to-work legislation. But many of the new Republican governors who swept into office last year, taking aim at collective bargaining rights, are striking less confrontational notes as they begin the new year, at least judging by what they have been saying in their State of the State addresses.
A gradually improving economy has eased some of the pressure for steep spending cuts. Many state lawmakers face re-election this year, and in many states they are showing little appetite to face the kind of uproar that greeted efforts to curb collective bargaining rights in states like Ohio and Wisconsin last year. And with a presidential campaign unfolding, some Republicans worry that overreaching at the local level, particularly in swing states, would make it harder for them to win in November. 
No state had more tumult last year than Wisconsin. Its governor, Scott Walker, a Republican, signed a law to curb collective bargaining rights for public workers, sparking protests and sit-ins at the State Capitol and now a campaign to have him recalled from office. While he used his State of the State speech on Wednesday to defend the unpopular measures he took last year -- telling lawmakers that ''we thought more about the next generation than we did about the next election'' -- the agenda he sketched out for this year was far less controversial. Among its highlights: a call for a law to bring more mining to the state, a task force to eliminate government waste and a literacy program.
In Florida, Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican who was elected in 2010 with the support of the Tea Party movement, has a new priority this year: he wants lawmakers to restore $1 billion of the roughly $1.35 billion in education cuts that he pushed through last year. ''On this point, I just cannot budge,'' he said in his second State of the State address.
And there was a different atmosphere on display last week in Maine. Its governor, Paul R. LePage, a Republican with Tea Party support, ruffled feathers last year by sparring with the N.A.A.C.P. over his decision to skip an event on Martin Luther King's Birthday, ordering the removal of a mural at the state's Department of Labor that he complained was too pro-labor and cutting taxes while calling for cuts in social programs for the poor.
While Mr. LePage used his speech last week to renew his calls to cut welfare spending, he did reach out to Democrats near the end. Noting that he had been a victim of domestic violence as a child, Mr. LePage made an emotional appeal to strengthen the state's domestic violence laws, and he thanked the Democratic minority leader in the state's House of Representatives, Emily Ann Cain, by name for offering to sponsor one of the bills.
''Now Emily -- my tone all right?'' the governor asked Ms. Cain, departing from his prepared text.
''You're awesome!'' she replied with a smile, giving him the thumbs up.
To be sure, some governors -- both first-termers and veterans -- are still proposing measures that are sure to cause controversy this year.
Gov. Sam Brownback of Kansas, a Republican, proposed a major overhaul of the state's tax system that would lower tax rates but eliminate deductions and credits -- including popular ones, like deductions for mortgage interest and charitable contributions and tax credits for poor families. His proposal is similar to one made in Washington in 2010 by President Obama's deficit reduction commission, but quickly shot down. Some Republican lawmakers in Kansas are balking at the idea of ending the deductions and credits.
And more laws that aim to curb the power of unions are being pursued in a number of states this year.
Unions and Democrats were thrown on the defensive this year in Indiana when Mr. Daniels, serving in his second -- and last -- term, switched course and decided to support a bill to ban union contracts from requiring nonunion members to pay union dues. Last year Mr. Daniels, who was considering a run for president, told lawmakers that such legislation was so divisive that it could derail the rest of his legislative agenda. But this year he decided that the measure, which supporters call a right-to-work law, would attract more jobs to Indiana.
''The idea, that no worker should be forced to pay union dues as a condition of keeping a job, is simple, and just,'' Mr. Daniels said in his State of the State address. ''But the benefits in new jobs would be large: a third or more of growing or relocating businesses will not consider a state that does not provide workers this protection.''
In South Carolina, a right-to-work state whose unemployment rate remained at 9.5 percent in December, above the national average, Gov. Nikki R. Haley, a Republican beginning her second year in office, took a hard line on unions in her address to the Legislature. ''I love that we are one of the least unionized states in the country,'' she said, calling it ''an economic development tool unlike any other.'' She pledged to ''make the unions understand full well that they are not needed, not wanted and not welcome in the state of South Carolina.''
Teacher tenure continues to be a flashpoint in many states. The governors of New Jersey, South Dakota and Virginia all used their speeches this year to call for abolishing or weakening it -- following the path that an unusually large number of states took over the last year. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said, ''We cannot ask parents to accept failure in teachers when their children's lives hang in the balance.''
There are now Republican governors in 29 states, Democratic governors in 20, and one independent, in Rhode Island. Governors in both parties used their State of the State addresses to argue that some of the hard choices they have been forced to make in recent years, as states faced record deficits, had put their states on a path to stability. Several, including Gov. Jerry Brown of California, a Democrat, used their speeches to call for finding ways to cut pension costs.
Of course, governors do not always propose their toughest measures in their annual speeches to lawmakers. Last year, Mr. Walker of Wisconsin used his State of the State address to call on government workers to contribute more to their pension plans; he did not mention his plan to curb collective bargaining rights until later.
As the economy has slowly improved, state tax revenues have been steadily rebounding. A report last week by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government found that state tax collections in the third quarter of 2011 were only 1.2 percent lower than they were in the same quarter of 2008. But states still face short-term challenges and enormous long-term liabilities, and Standard & Poor's cautioned last week that ''compared to when the recession began, state and local governments have fewer tools in their fiscal tool boxes.''
Still, many governors are moving to undo, or at least soften, some of the measures they took during the downturn.
In Arizona that means buying back the state's Capitol complex, which was sold after the housing meltdown sent the state into a downward spiral. Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, used her State of the State address this year to urge legislation allowing her to buy it back. ''Together, we can celebrate the burning of that mortgage!'' she said.
And in Georgia, Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican, called for restoring half of the days of prekindergarten classes that he cut last year to save money.
Mostly, though, governors sounded pleased to have simply survived the fiscal tumult of recent years. ''When I took office, the state had just ended the last fiscal year with only $876 in the state general fund,'' Mr. Brownback of Kansas said, echoing the kind of war story many governors have. ''Excuse me, 876 dollars and 5 cents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three governors, from left, Paul R. LePage of Maine, Jan Brewer of Arizona and Sam Brownback of Kansas, all Republicans, delivering their State of the State addresses this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (61%)

PERSON: SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%); JAN BREWER (58%); RICK SCOTT (58%); SCOTT WALKER (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); PAUL LEPAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1392 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Iran Offers To Extend Inspection By U.N. Team

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

 BODY:
LONDON -- Iran's foreign minister offered on Monday to extend a three-day visit to his country by United Nations inspectors in what seemed to be a further attempt to lower the strident tone of a crisis with the West over Tehran's nuclear program after the imposition of new economic sanctions.
It was not clear whether the offer was part of what European officials have termed efforts by Iran to buy time while continuing uranium enrichment. Iran says the nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, while Western leaders say it is seeking the capacity to build nuclear weapons. 
The conciliatory tone struck by Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi, reported by Iran's state-run news media, was offset by other Iranian news reports that suggested Iran might be girding for a military confrontation. Those reports said Iran had tested new battlefield equipment including laser-guided artillery shells and a remotely piloted drone capable of carrying an 11-pound payload.
Press TV, a state-financed satellite broadcaster, also quoted Mr. Salehi as saying Iranian scientists would install, ''in the coming months,'' their first locally produced fuel plates enriched to 20 percent purity to refuel a research reactor in Tehran.
Iran says it needs fuel enriched to that level to produce medical isotopes for the treatment of 800,000 patients. But Western specialists say that because of the oddities of how uranium is enriched, those batches would be the easiest to convert for use in weapons.
According to Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, Mr. Salehi, while on a tour of Ethiopia, was asked to comment on a visit to Iran by inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog, that began over the weekend. He said he was ''optimistic towards the visit and noted that the three-day stay of the inspectors could be extended upon their request,'' the news agency said.
In Vienna, where the atomic agency is based, officials declined immediate comment on the reported offer.
Iran's semiofficial Mehr news agency quoted Mr. Salehi as saying: ''We've always tried to put transparency as a principle in our cooperation with I.A.E.A. During this visit, the delegation has questions and the necessary answers will be given.''
Iran has also said frequently in recent weeks that it is prepared to resume talks with world powers, which were suspended over a year ago.
The timing of the inspectors' visit was seen as important as the United States and its European allies seek to increase pressure on Iran. President Obama, moreover, has repeated that Washington is not excluding any options to deal with the crisis -- a thinly veiled reference to the possibility of a military strike against the nuclear facilities by either the United States or Israel.
The atomic agency team is likely to visit an underground enrichment site near Qum, where Iran has said it has begun enrichment work, The Associated Press reported. The team includes two senior weapons experts, Jacques Baute of France and Neville Whiting of South Africa, The A.P. said, implying that Iran may be prepared to discuss accusations that it is seeking the ability to make nuclear warheads.
Mr. Salehi's tone seemed to contrast with the combative note struck by Iranian officials last week before the I.A.E.A. visit. On Thursday, Iran threatened to terminate oil exports to European nations even before a European embargo on Iranian oil was to take effect this summer.
Iran also has publicized any sign that the effort to block its oil sales could falter. Press TV quoted the finance minister of India, one of Iran's biggest oil customers, as saying on Sunday that India must continue buying Iranian oil because other suppliers cannot meet its energy needs. At the same time, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran has acknowledged that the regimen of punitive sanctions imposed on Iran, which he had long dismissed as insignificant, were hurting Iranians.
The sanctions have contributed to inflation, shortages, unemployment and a sharp drop in the value of Iran's currency, the rial. Further signs of the impact were seen Monday in a huge backup of Iran-bound ships that have not delivered their cargo because of financing delays. Reuters reported that about 400,000 tons of grain are languishing on at least 10 ships anchored outside Iranian ports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); RADIOACTIVE COMPOUNDS MFG (71%); LASERS (70%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (67%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (88%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1393 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Helping Under-the-Table Chinese Contractors Get Right With the Law

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON and JEFFREY E. SINGER

 BODY:
If New York City's licensing test for home improvement contractors were given in Chinese and included the finer points of bamboo scaffolding, contractors like Gary Lin, 42, of Queens would breathe much easier taking it.
Mr. Lin worked on bamboo platforms while working in construction in Changle, his home city in the Chinese province of Fujian. Now, despite speaking very limited English, he is trying to start a legitimate home improvement company in Flushing, which is rife with unlicensed contractors.
And since the city does not allow bamboo scaffolding - and currently does not offer the test in Chinese - Mr. Lin found himself in a new class with about 20 other Chinese immigrants one recent Saturday preparing for the city-administered test for a home improvement contractor license, a requirement for contracting with a homeowner to do work like repairs, renovations and remodeling. 
The class, offered by the Queens Economic Development Corporation, is aimed at familiarizing contractors with the test, which is administered by the city's Department of Consumer Affairs and consists of 30 multiple choice questions. It is offered in English, Spanish, Korean and Bengali.
Starting in February, the test will also be available in Chinese, city officials said.
To Nicholas Hardie, who teaches Mr. Lin's class in Mandarin, the change is long overdue. The classes, which cost $100, are part of a pilot program to explore ways of addressing challenges faced by immigrant entrepreneurs. Mr. Hardie, a Wisconsin native, said he believed that there were an enormous number of Chinese immigrant contractors in Queens working without city home improvement licenses.
''A main reason is the language barrier,'' said Mr. Hardie, who said he had arranged with Department of Consumer Affairs officials to take groups of students from two of his classes for the test next month.
He said that his students would be ready to take either the English or the Chinese test, and that he was helping them with the application process, which, among other things, demands proof of liability and disability insurance, and workman's compensation insurance.
In response to a listing for the class , 78 Chinese immigrant contractors inquired, Mr. Hardie said. But many opted not to take the class or the exam because they thought the language barrier would make passing the test impossible. Of the 37 who registered, most have either been working as employees or have been working for cash under the table, he said.
Burton Hung, a developer and licensed contractor in Queens who volunteered to help Mr. Hardie teach the class, said that oftentimes a Chinese immigrant contractor would save money to buy a van and tools and then hire day laborers.
''If you don't speak English, you can always hire people to speak English, so you can work outside the Chinese community,'' said Mr. Hung, who worked in construction as a child and after immigrating to the United States started as a small contractor and eventually earned a master's degree in business. But unlicensed contractors have to dodge authorities, and they often get bargained down on prices. And they find it much harder to work under the heavy scrutiny in Manhattan for higher-paying jobs.
At a class on Jan. 21, about 6 of the 20 students could speak some English.
Mr. Hardie explained to them how to collect a deposit and give a written estimate, how to draw up a contract and how to legally cancel one. He covered the finer points of certificates of occupancy and charging sales tax, as well as complying with sanitary, fire and health regulations.
He handed out Chinese translations of the contractor's exam and license information, as well as translations he made of previous tests.
Mr. Hardie said that, in the past, some contractors who spoke no English still managed to pass the English-language test by memorizing earlier test questions and also by training themselves to recognize key words, phrases and numbers. Adopting this technique, he taught students how to spot such clues.
For example, the mention of $200 in a question most likely refers to the rule that a license is not necessary for jobs paying less than that amount. And the number six in a question may refer to the number of years a contractor must keep contracts on file. The number three may very likely refer to the number of days a contractor must wait between signing a contract and beginning work.
On the subject of contracts, one worker, Kevin Zhang, 36, who immigrated to Flushing four years ago, held up his phone and asked if the contracts could simply be recorded, instead of written. No, Mr. Hardie said.
One of the other Chinese immigrant students was Rose Lu, who owns United Structure Solution, a metal shop in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, that has many large contracts and 10 full-time employees. Ms. Lu said she wanted a home improvement license in order to do interior work at a hotel because the license covers lodging establishments.
Ms. Lu said many unlicensed Chinese contractors in Brooklyn and Queens operate as fly-by-night operations.
''A van can bring in a lot of laborers, but there's no address, no sense of responsibility,'' she said, adding that more licensing would help legitimize things.
''The more people who know what they're doing, the better,'' she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rose Lu, who owns a metal shop, says she wants more Chinese contractors to obtain licenses to legitimize their operations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME REMODELING (93%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (91%); FOUNDATION & EXTERIOR CONTRACTORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (85%); SPECIALTY TRADE CONTRACTORS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1394 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats' Agenda

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Free-Market Socialism'' (column, Jan. 24), David Brooks criticizes both parties for choosing the wrong paths to address new economic challenges. But his critique of Democrats as shifting ''their emphasis from lifting up the poor to pounding down the rich'' is simplified and wrong. 
Democrats in the House are fighting for the very initiatives Mr. Brooks demands, including early childhood education. The problem is, Where do we get the resources for such investments in a fiscally responsible way?
Democrats say that people who did exceptionally well over the last few years and are now paying historically low effective tax rates should pay a little more. Republicans in the House have said raising revenues from the rich to rebuild the middle class is off the table.
This isn't a matter of ''pounding down the rich''; it is a matter of common sense: how does society pay for the very investments that Mr. Brooks seeks to strengthen society?
STEVE ISRAEL Member of Congress, 2nd Dist., N.Y. Washington, Jan. 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (55%); CHILDREN (55%)

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1395 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH RUSLAN M. MEDZHITOV; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: A Long Journey to Immune System Insights

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
Ruslan M. Medzhitov loves scientific puzzles. And this penchant has led him to tackle some of the big questions of modern biology.
At Yale University, where he is a professor of immunology and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator, Dr. Medzhitov, 45, helped make key discoveries in the workings of vertebrates' immune systems. We spoke about them at his home in Guilford, Conn.; again in New York City; and finally by telephone. An edited and condensed version of the sessions follows.
Let's talk about the paper by the immunologist Charles A. Janeway Jr. that changed your life. When did you learn about it? 
In 1992. I was a doctoral student at Moscow State University reading biology. And I do mean ''reading,'' because this was the time after the Soviet Union had come apart and the economy was in chaos. There were few functioning laboratories anymore because no one could get materials and reagents. My education consisted of lectures and whatever I could read in my area of study -- molecular evolution. But even reading was difficult. As a consequence of the economic crisis, subscriptions to most scientific journals had been canceled. Moscow University, the top school in the country, didn't have them. The only library with anything was at the Academy of Natural Sciences, and it barred nonaffiliated people from their facilities. Luckily, I had made friends with some very kind young women who worked there and who permitted me to use the library, secretly.
And it was there, one day, that I stumbled upon this three-year-old paper by Janeway, where he proposed a theory of immunity. I read it and my eyes opened up. I thought, ''Now I see.''
What was in the paper?
A revolutionary idea of how the immune system worked. In vertebrates, two immune systems protect against infection. There's the evolutionarily older system that all organisms, even plants, have -- the innate immune system. There is also another system that evolved relatively recently, the adaptive immune system, which only vertebrates have. Janeway proposed that the innate system detects invading microbes, distinguishes them from everything else and signals the adaptive immune system to move against the intruder.
This made complete sense -- except that it was only a theory, unproven in the laboratory. At that time most people in the field thought it was probably nothing and probably wrong. To me it was one of those things that wasn't just interesting, it was aesthetically appealing. It was so logical. It almost made me physically happy to read it.
I immediately e-mailed Charles Janeway at Yale University in New Haven with questions. To my surprise, he answered. A correspondence developed. I think he was astonished that someone in faraway Moscow was so interested in his mostly ignored paper.
Did you grow up in Moscow?
No. In Tashkent, in what is now Uzbekistan. My father was a mathematician at the university.
From the time I was in middle school I wanted to study biology. The puzzles of the natural world intrigued me. I wasn't interested in politics or human activities; I was interested in how the spider makes its web, and why. I would think about these mysteries till I got dizzy.
But to become a biologist in the Soviet Union wasn't simple. Biology was sort of killed off in the 1940s by Lysenko and Stalin, and it never fully recovered. At my high school, we didn't even have a real biology teacher. Mostly, I self-educated by reading biology books that my father brought home from the university library.
How did you make your way to Moscow University?
I had some fortunate encounters. In a society where connections were everything, you were always looking for people who could make a difference to what you wanted to do.
Unhappily, I began at Moscow University in 1990, right when the economic crisis hit. Most laboratories at the school were shut. It was almost impossible to do any experimental research. I did, however, get to attend the lectures of the great tumor immunologist Garry Abelev. He became a mentor. Then, in 1993, I got a three-month Unesco fellowship to study bioinformatics with Russell Doolittle at the University of California, San Diego. At the end of my time there, someone asked about my future plans. I said, ''I'd love to prove Janeway's theory.'' It turned out that Russell Doolittle and Dick Dutton, an immunologist I'd met, both knew Charlie Janeway personally! Within days, a different future was arranged. I was to finish my doctorate in Moscow and then go to Janeway's lab at Yale as his postdoc.
Many scientists describe the postdoctoral fellowship as an exceptionally unhappy time in their lives.
I had a different attitude. I was in this famous lab where many important discoveries had been made, and the place seemed like complete utopia. To do science and not to worry about anything else, that made me happy. If I had any concerns, they were about my lack of experimental training. Charlie kept on saying, ''Don't worry, experiments are like cooking.'' I thought, ''I don't know how to cook, either.''
How did you finally prove his theory?
Our main goal was to discover the gene in the cells of the innate immune system that activates the adaptive system. That would explain how our body knows we have an infection and translates it into an immune response. It took about two years, but we found it. Today, this gene is known at the human Toll-like receptor, and it is important in immunity and in inducing inflammation.
At the same moments we were doing this, other researchers who were studying fruit flies saw that the Drosophila Toll -- important for understanding embryonic development -- was also involved in immunity. Still other research groups were searching for a gene responsible for a septic shock triggered by a bacterial toxin. That gene turned out to be the same Toll we reported a year earlier as an inducer of inflammatory and adaptive immune responses, although we didn't know what activated that gene at that time.
When you speak of Dr. Janeway, one senses that he became a kind of scientific father to you.
We had initially a relationship of student and mentor. But very quickly, there was a special aspect. We shared a certain way of thinking about science and of looking at a problem. This came out in our constant conversations.
Toward the end, in 2003, when he was struggling with lymphoma, I remember, we still had these conversations. At one point, I went to see him at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He'd been unconscious for a few days. Suddenly, he was sitting up. The very first thing he asked was about some study that was done in immunology: ''What do you think of that result?''
Last year's Nobel Prize in medicine was given to three immunology researchers, but not to you. In November, Nature published a letter signed by 26 leading scientists, who wrote, ''We believe that the Nobel Committee should have acknowledged the seminal contributions of immunologists Charles A. Janeway Jr. (1943-2003) and Ruslan Medzhitov.'' Public statements like that are rare in the scientific world. What were your feelings about the Nobel?
Anything I would say, if I were to be sincere, it probably can't be printed. Or it would be something very trivial and generic that doesn't need to be there. I don't want to be insincere.
I do believe if Charlie had lived, he would have received the prize. For many in the field, not only myself, it was upsetting that his contributions were not credited. Let me leave it at that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A LONG JOURNEY: Ruslan Medzhitov, 45, studies immune systems at Yale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); IMMUNOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1396 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: New Fund Hopes to Prove Thesis of an Outspoken Analyst

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
R. Christopher Whalen doesn't mince words about the big banks.
''We don't need to have these behemoths. It's just a total fallacy,'' said Mr. Whalen, a financial analyst who has spent the last eight years evaluating the industry giants, like Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. ''The big guys are going to break up.''
Now, he has to prove that his thesis - that smaller banks are stronger than the larger ones - is more than just rhetoric. After nearly a decade observing Wall Street from the sidelines, Mr. Whalen, who joined Tangent Capital Partners in December, is setting up an investment fund focused on small and midsize banks. 
His investment strategy will follow the ratings model he honed at Institutional Risk Analytics, the research firm he co-founded, where he remains vice chairman. He praises the banks that focus on old-fashioned lending and avoid risky businesses like derivatives trading.
''For the past eight years, I've been the caretaker of the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch of the banking industry,'' said Dennis Santiago, the co-founder and chief executive of Institutional Risk Analytics, referring to a zany weapon in the movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail.'' ''I'm looking forward to seeing him basically balance himself out, to a more full use of his various talents.''
Since 2003, Mr. Whalen's research has polarized the financial industry, garnering devoted followers even as critics chafed at the analyst's blunt style.
A fast talker with a booming laugh, Mr. Whalen, 53, who recently wrote ''Inflated: How Money and Debt Built the American Dream,'' a book on the history of borrowing in America, has argued that the strongest banks are the ones without exposure to Wall Street. As he sees it, the biggest banks, facing potentially billions in losses as investors sue over mortgage bets gone bad, will need to be broken up.
Bank of America has been a frequent target. In his popular weekly newsletter, Mr. Whalen contends the bank has been permanently crippled by its exposure to troubled mortgage investments - and would be worth more in pieces. Investors, he has said, should agitate for a restructuring.
Jerome F. Dubrowski, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in a statement that the bank was ''a stronger company today than it was during the height of the financial crisis,'' adding that the ''focus continues to be on simplifying the company, building capital and reducing risk.''
His analysis has long been contrarian. ''Chris was one of a very small number of us who were really speaking vocally and forcefully on these issues,'' said Joshua Rosner, a managing director at Graham Fisher & Company, a research consultancy, and a fishing buddy of Mr. Whalen's. ''We were often left unheard.''
As early as February 2005, Mr. Whalen wrote that the growing trend of banks' shifting risky loans off their books and into investments like collateralized debt obligations raised troubling questions about hidden vulnerabilities in the financial system. In March 2007, a year before mortgage bets felled Bear Stearns, Mr. Whalen said at a conference in Washington that subprime home loans posed a threat whose scope was ''almost unknowable.''
Ernest T. Patrikis, a former general counsel for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who is now a partner at the law firm White & Case, said: ''He's controversial. There are many people at the Fed who don't appreciate his efforts.''
Mr. Whalen, who worked at the New York Fed, called it a ''badge of honor'' to rankle the central bank.
His affinity for smaller banks traces back to childhood. Growing up in Virginia, he regularly went with his father to First National Bank of Strasburg, a community lender, that Mr. Whalen likens to the bank in the film ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' The head of the bank, with his desk on the main floor, was known to fix customers' fishing reels as a hobby.
Mr. Whalen spent his early years surrounded by Washington insiders. His father, the author Richard J. Whalen, a longtime political consultant, was a policy adviser to President Ronald Reagan. Political, economic and literary celebrities, including Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, were frequent guests in Mr. Whalen's Washington home. Mr. Volcker, who is a friend of Mr. Whalen's father, called the younger Mr. Whalen a ''rather acerbic critic'' of the financial industry.
After graduating from Villanova University in 1981 and working short stints at conservative organizations, he joined the New York Fed as a management trainee in 1984. Two years later, he started at the investment bank Bear Stearns in the fixed-income department. He spent much of the 1990s as an independent consultant, working with corporations that did business in Latin America, later rejoining Bear Stearns in mergers and acquisitions.
His corporate experience shaped his analytical ratings. In 2003, he co-founded Institutional Risk Analytics to address what he identified as a weakness in traditional research, mainly that it was based on future projections about a company rather than empirical data.
To grade banks large and small, he conducted extensive due diligence, including interviewing local real estate professionals to get a sense of the market. He's now looking to apply the process to his current investment thinking.
''He understands the community banking world, and how that affects everything else,'' said Vicky L. Schiff, a managing partner of Oro Capital Advisors, a Los Angeles-based real estate investment firm that recently hired Mr. Whalen as a consultant. ''And he's not afraid to say what he thinks.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Whalen, of Tangent Capital Partners, says the strongest banks are the ones without exposure to Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS ANALYTICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1397 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Study of Census Results Finds That Residential Segregation Is Down Sharply

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
More than 40 years after the federal government enacted fair-housing legislation and the Great Migration of blacks from the South began to ebb, residential segregation in metropolitan America has been significantly curtailed, according to a study released Monday.
The study of census results from thousands of neighborhoods by two economics professors who are fellows at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization, found that the nation's cities are more racially integrated than at any time since 1910; that all-white enclaves ''are effectively extinct''; and that while black urban ghettos still exist, they are shriveling.
An influx of immigrants and the gentrification of black neighborhoods contributed to the change, the study said, but suburbanization by blacks was even more instrumental.
The progress was less pronounced between blacks and non-Hispanic whites, though, than it has been between blacks and nonblacks, including Asians and Hispanic people. 
The findings by the two professors -- Edward Glaeser of Harvard and Jacob L. Vigdor of Duke -- were generally seconded by a spectrum of other experts with several caveats and an admonition that the study should not be seen as declaring the end of all segregation.
Also, barriers like exclusionary zoning in the suburbs persist, and the decline in busing to achieve racial integration means that some public schools are more segregated than before.
''There is now very much more black-white neighborhood integration than 40 years ago,'' said Professor Reynolds Farley of the University of Michigan's Population Studies Center. ''Those of us who worked on segregation in the 1960s never anticipated such declines. Nevertheless, blacks remain considerably more segregated from whites than do Hispanics or Asians.''
Douglas Massey, a Princeton sociologist, said: ''In terms of trends in black-white segregation, we really see two trends: in metro areas with small black populations, we indeed observed sharp decreases in segregation; but in those with large black populations, the declines are much slower and at times nonexistent. Although all-white neighborhoods have largely disappeared, this is more due to the entry of Latinos and Asians into formerly all-white neighborhoods.''
William H. Frey, the chief demographer at the Brookings Institution, cautioned that ''the report sends a potentially harmful message that black-white residential separation is no longer a priority issue in this country.
''While recent modest declines in black segregation levels are welcome, the 2010 census shows that the average black resident still lives in a neighborhood that is 45 percent black and 36 percent white,'' he said. ''At the same time, the average white lives in a neighborhood that is 78 percent white and 7 percent black. Black segregation levels are even higher for children, signaling the continued separation of black and white families across communities with different levels of resources available for schools and other services important for nurturing the next generation.''
John R. Logan, a Brown sociologist, said: ''If we want to understand the long-term trends in segregation, we have to be aware both of the progress and of the resistance to change. We are far from the 'end of segregation.' ''
Still, Professors Glaeser and Vigdor found that only 20 percent of blacks now live in ''ghetto'' neighborhoods where 80 percent of the population or more is black, compared with nearly 50 percent who lived in similar neighborhoods a half-century ago.
The findings in the report, titled ''The End of the Segregated Century,'' for the Manhattan Institute's Center for State and Local Leadership did not denigrate decades of desegregation efforts. In fact, the authors said, ''there is every reason to relish the fact that there is more freedom in housing today than 50 years ago and to applaud those who fought to create the change.'' But they concluded that housing desegregation was not a magic bullet in providing equal opportunity.
''Residential segregation has declined pervasively, as ghettos depopulate and the nation's population center shifts toward the less segregated Sun Belt,'' Professors Glaeser and Vigdor wrote. ''At the same time, there has been only limited progress in closing achievement and employment gaps between blacks and whites.''
While the decline in New York and St. Louis was ''not very profound,'' Professor Vigdor said, new neighborhoods like the Washington Navy Yard in the District of Columbia shifted to 31 percent black in 2010 from 95 percent black in 2000. Nonetheless, 17 census tracts that encompassed 46,000 Washington residents and were more than 98 percent black in 2000 were still more than 95 percent black in 2010.
The study's definition of neighborhood was borrowed from the census: a tract that is home to 1,500 to 7,500 people. The analysis relied on the two most common segregation indexes: dissimilarity, or the proportion of individuals of either group that would have to switch neighborhoods to achieve perfect integration, and isolation, which measures neighborhoods where the share of the population of one group surpasses the citywide average.
By those measures, the average black person still lives in metropolitan housing markets where to achieve complete integration more than half the black population would have to move and in neighborhoods where blacks exceed their share of the region's population by about 30 percentage points.
Many of the cities with less segregation -- or cities that demonstrated disproportionate gains in integration -- are in the Sun Belt, where population growth has been greatest and immigrants have congregated. Those gains are attributable, in part, to the proliferation of subprime mortgages and are threatened by the foreclosure crisis.
By the dissimilarity index, Dallas and Houston are the least segregated big cities. Los Angeles fared best on the isolation index. Sun Belt cities accounted for fully half of the 10 metropolitan areas with the largest black populations in 2010, compared with only two in 1970. That helps explain why the dissimilarity index plunged nearly 40 points in metropolitan Dallas but less than 10 points (nearly half of that since 2000) in New York.
Among cities with the largest black population, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit and St. Louis ranked highest in the dissimilarity index. Among metropolitan areas, Chicago, New York and Philadelphia did.
Since 1960, the share of blacks living in neighborhoods where they account for a minority of the population has risen to 59 percent from 30 percent.
''While it may be tempting to see the overwhelmingly white nature of many suburbs as evidence of stagnation or stasis, the presence of even modest numbers of African-Americans in suburbs demonstrates the remarkable change in American society,'' the study said. ''Indeed, measured by dissimilarity indices, suburbs are often among the most integrated parts of America.''
Only 424 of the nation's 72,531 census tracts recorded no black residents. More than half were either in rural areas or in metropolitan regions where blacks account for less than 1 percent of the population. Every census tract in Connecticut, Maryland and New Hampshire recorded at least one black resident.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TRENDS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CITIES (72%); CHILDREN (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1398 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Bill to Prohibit Insider Trading by Members of Congress Advances in Senate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In an effort to regain public trust, the Senate voted Monday to take up a bill that would prohibit members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers.
The vote was 93 to 2. 
Senators of both parties said the bill was desperately needed at a time when the public approval rating of Congress had sunk below 15 percent.
''The American public has no confidence in Congress,'' said Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, who introduced an earlier version of the legislation.
At the same time, Democratic senators moved to tap into concerns about comparatively low tax rates paid by some of the nation's top earners, introducing a bill that would require households with more than $1 million of adjusted gross income to pay at least 30 percent of it in taxes.
A handful of lawmakers have tried for years to enact restrictions on stock dealing by members of Congress. But their efforts drew little support until new attention on the practice last year -- coupled with election anxiety -- prompted a flood of backing for the idea and support from President Obama in his State of the Union address.
The bill states that members and employees of Congress are not exempt from the federal law and regulations that ban insider trading.
''No member of Congress and no employee of Congress shall use any nonpublic information derived from the individual's position as a member of Congress or employee of Congress, or gained from performance of the individual's duties, for personal benefit,'' the bill says.
Federal securities law does not explicitly exempt members of Congress, but experts disagree on whether and when lawmakers may be found to have violated the law. The bill is meant to eliminate any ambiguity.
It says that lawmakers have ''a duty arising from a relationship of trust and confidence'' to Congress, the federal government and the citizens of the United States -- a duty they violate by trading on nonpublic information.
The bill also requires members of Congress to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other forms of securities within 30 days of transactions. The information would be posted on the Web in a searchable format.
In his speech last week, Mr. Obama urged Congress to act, citing what he called ''the corrosive influence of money in politics.''
''Send me a bill that bans insider trading by members of Congress,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I will sign it.''
The Senate was already writing such a bill. However, the bill does not subject lawmakers to a second type of restriction suggested by Mr. Obama, who said Congress should ''limit any elected official from owning stocks in industries they impact.''
From talking to other lawmakers, executive branch officials and business executives, members of Congress learn potentially valuable information about military contracts, economic policy and myriad federal programs before the information becomes public. In addition, they can write spending bills in ways that, for example, benefit their own real estate investments.
The bill -- the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act, or Stock Act -- was drafted by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. Similar bills were introduced by Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts.
''This is a measure that the American people are clamoring for,'' Mr. Brown said Monday. ''We need to re-establish trust with the American people, and this is a first step in doing that.''
In the House, more than 250 lawmakers, including at least 90 Republicans, have signed up as co-sponsors of a similar bill. Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for the House Republican leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, said he ''plans to move an expanded version of the Stock Act through the House in February.''
Senior House Republicans said they wanted to expand the bill to prohibit lawmakers from using nonpublic information in real estate transactions as well as stock trades.
Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, who has been pushing such legislation since 2006, urged House Republican leaders to stop their ''continued stalling.''
Academic studies have come to different conclusions about whether members of Congress have higher investment returns than ordinary investors.
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, introduced the bill codifying the principle that the top earners should pay at least the tax rate of middle-class workers.
Mr. Whitehouse said he might press his legislation as a stand-alone bill or try to attach it to other legislation.
''In theory,'' Mr. Whitehouse said, ''we have a progressive tax code in which the more successful you are, the more money you make, the greater rate you pay in taxation. Unfortunately what turns out to be the fact, in practice, is that you have these huge exceptions.''
Mr. Whitehouse noted that the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett had often asserted that he pays a lower percentage of his income in taxes than his secretary does.
The bill, following the rough contours suggested by Mr. Obama, creates what would be an alternative minimum tax for the most affluent.
Households with adjusted annual gross incomes over $1 million would prepare their taxes as they do now, with all the deductions, credits and loopholes intact. They would also calculate what 30 percent of their adjusted gross income amounts to. They would then pay whichever amount was larger.
Republicans showed no sign of coming to the table on the Buffett Rule legislation. Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said he had breakfast with Mr. Buffett on Sunday, but rejected his personal entreaties. He cited an estimate by the liberal-leaning Citizens for Tax Justice that the proposal would raise $50 billion a year, a small percentage of a budget deficit that will probably top $1 trillion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1399 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Volcker Rule Stirs Up Opposition Overseas

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
DAVOS, Switzerland -- Usually, it is the banks that are fighting efforts to impose new regulations on the industry. Now, it is foreign governments fighting against bank regulations in the United States.
In the halls of last week's annual meeting of the World Economic Forum here, Wall Street's top bankers found a curious ally in their battle to end - or perhaps water down - the Volcker Rule, that part of last year's Dodd-Frank financial regulation law that says that banks are not allowed to participate in ''proprietary trading.'' Translation: Banks can't make risky bets with their own money. The idea, rooted in ending the too-big-to-fail phenomenon, is to separate the risky casino element of Wall Street from the utility role of helping finance the economy.
Yet finance ministers from around the world lined up to whisper in the ear of Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, who made the rounds in Davos on Thursday and Friday, about a specific element of the Volcker Rule that has them apoplectic: The rule says that United States banks - and possibly certain foreign banks that do business in America - would be restricted in trading foreign government bonds. Yet the rule, conveniently, provides an exemption for United States government securities. Every other country is out of luck. 
The measure, critics say, is likely to increase borrowing costs for foreign governments, reduce liquidity and make the market for foreign government bonds more volatile, the opponents charge. In the end, it may fall into the category of unintended consequences of a proposed new regulation.
This latest assault on the Volcker Rule comes amid negotiations to resolve the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. The possibility of anything that could increase borrowing costs for countries like Italy, Portugal or Spain, understandably, has government leaders on edge.
George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, who was whisked from meeting to meeting here in the Alps, is a vocal critic of the rule.
''I am concerned that the regulations could have a significant adverse impact on sovereign debt markets, including here in the U.K.,'' Mr. Osborne wrote in a letter to Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve.
While Mr. Osborne noted that the Volcker Rule carries market-making exceptions for trading - it would let banks buy and sell stocks, bonds and other instruments on behalf of their clients - ''in practice the regulations would appear to make it more difficult and costlier to provide market-making services in non-U.S. sovereign markets,'' he wrote. ''Any consequent withdrawal of market-making services by banks would reduce liquidity in sovereign markets, which in turn would engender greater volatility and make it more difficult, riskier and costlier for countries such as the U.K. to issue and distribute their debt.''
Japanese officials similarly believe the rule ''would raise the operational and transactional costs of trading'' in Japanese government bonds ''and could lead to the exit from Tokyo of Japanese subsidiaries of U.S. banks.''
The Japanese officials, who wrote a letter to a handful of United States agencies said: ''Some of the Japanese banks might be forced to cease or dramatically reduce their U.S. operations. Those reactions could further adversely affect liquidity and pricing of'' Japanese government bonds. Ominously, the Japanese officials added: ''We could also see the same picture in sovereign bond markets worldwide at this critical juncture.''
Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of Canada, who was at Davos, is even more upset about the Volcker Rule, which is named for the former Federal Reserve chief Paul Volcker and is still receiving public comment. He contends that the rule could create its own systemic risk and wreak havoc on the government bond market.
Canada's five largest banks are so anxious about the rule that they have sent a letter to the Federal Reserve and four other agencies arguing that the rule may be illegal under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
All of these foreign ministers have a point that United States officials may want to consider. There is no question that the Volcker Rule is intended to limit banks from taking too much risk - that's a smart and noble aim. However, the upshot of the particular provision of the Volcker Rule around banks trading in foreign sovereign bonds could create more problems than it solves. And the amorphous language around what constitutes a proprietary trade and ''market making'' is so confusing that the result is that banks are going to get out of the market entirely.
Think about it like this: When a bank sells a 30-year bond from say, France, the buyer often sells back an older French bond, say a 30-year bond that now has only 22 years left on it. Traditionally, the bank would buy that bond as if it were a used car that was being turned in for a new one. To keep the car dealership analogy going, the bank would then put the used car on its lot until it can find a buyer, with the car - or bond in this case - sometimes sitting in its inventory for weeks or even months.
Under the Volcker Rule, keeping that car on the lot would constitute a proprietary trade, not market making. And therein lies the problem: If you take the biggest American banks out of the market for foreign government bonds, the price will go up.
''Importantly, banks under the Volcker Rule may now be either unable or unwilling to carry inventory, not only in their trading account but also as a part of their traditional market making and flow trading business,'' Lord, Abbett & Company, the mutual fund company, recently wrote in a note to clients. ''Inventory promotes transactions that enhance and broaden liquidity.''
However, the Treasury Department studied the impact the Volcker Rule would have on liquidity across markets broadly and concluded that it would be limited.
Of course, the outsize bet that MF Global took on foreign government bonds is a memorable cautionary lesson in why the rule should exist in the first place. Jon Corzine, MF Global's chief executive, made a highly leveraged bet-the-firm gamble on European bonds. Counterparties were so concerned about that exposure that they effectively closed the firm by no longer trading with it.
Nonetheless, it may be worth the United States government considering alternatives to the way the Volcker Rule is drafted. Otherwise it is possible the Volcker Rule could help exacerbate - rather than prevent the next crisis.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Osborne, chancellor of the Exchequer, has been a vocal critic of the Volcker Rule. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT GILLIERON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Timothy Geithner has heard complaints about the rule. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); EURO CRISIS (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (86%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (71%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); ALPS (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



1400 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AFGHAN OFFICIALS CONSIDER
SEPARATE TALKS WITH TALIBAN
Concerned that it is being left out of peace talks between the United States and the Taliban, the government in Afghanistan is pushing to open its own direct negotiations with the insurgent group, Afghan officials said. Page A4
OBAMA DEFENDS DRONE USE 
President Obama defended the use of drones to strike suspected Al Qaeda terrorists in Pakistan and elsewhere, saying the clandestine program was ''kept on a very tight leash'' and enabled the United States to use ''pinpoint'' targeting to avoid more intrusive military action. Page A6
IRAN'S OFFER TO INSPECTORS
Iran's foreign minister offered to extend a three-day visit to his country by United Nations inspectors in what seemed to be a further attempt to lower the strident tone of a crisis with the West over Tehran's nuclear program after the imposition of new economic sanctions. Page A6
WORKERS FREED BY SUDAN
The Sudanese military said that it had rescued 14 of the 29 Chinese road workers kidnapped by rebels in southern Sudan, but Chinese media rejected the report, saying none of its workers had been freed. The Chinese workers had been seized in an attack on an encampment in Southern Kordofan. Page A9
EMBASSY SHIELDS 3 IN CAIRO
The United States Embassy in Cairo is giving shelter to three American citizens to protect them from potential arrest by the Egyptian authorities in a politically charged investigation of four American-backed nongovernmental organizations operating in the city, colleagues said. Page A9
National
PROTESTERS DEFY DEADLINE
WITH LITTLE CONSEQUENCE
Demonstrators affiliated with the Occupy movement in Washington, D.C., maintained a wary vigil as a deadline from the National Park Service for campers to remove their gear or depart from two downtown parks came and went with no immediate effort by police to clamp down on the campers. Page A12
ANGER OVER A GENERAL
Plans for a talk at West Point by a retired general known for his anti-Muslim remarks were abruptly canceled after a growing list of liberal veterans groups, civil liberties advocates and Muslim organizations had called on the academy to rescind the invitation. Page A14
SANTORUM'S CHALLENGE
Rick Santorum briefly stopped campaigning to be with his daughter Isabella, who has Trisomy 18, a chromosomal disorder, after she came down with pneumonia. Page A16
New York
STATE REDISTRICTING FAULTED
AS UNFAIR TO MINORITIES
A proposed redrawing of the state's political districts came under criticism, as civil rights leaders said the maps did not fairly represent blacks and Hispanics in an increasingly diverse state, and Democrats said they would file a lawsuit asking a judge to intervene. Page A18
Obituaries
JOSEPH E. BROOKS, 84
He was a retail executive who doubled the size of the Lord & Taylor chain and made its flagship New York store a showplace of spectacle, including elaborate retail stagecraft and a daily morning rendition of ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' Page A21
Business
DEBT COLLECTOR SETTLES CASE
WITH F.T.C. FOR $2.5 MILLION
The Federal Trade Commission signaled that it would be cracking down on debt collectors who harass consumers in attempts to collect debts they may not even be legally obligated to pay. Page B1
INVESTORS FLEE BONDS
Investors fled bonds of weaker countries, sending yields on Portuguese government bonds to a record over concerns that the euro zone debt troubles were spreading beyond Greece. Page B2
A COSTLY SUPER BOWL TRIP
In Indianapolis, Super Bowl weekend demand exceeds supply for most travel services, and industry executives are already shaking their heads at the degree of wretched excess building up. On the Road. Page B10
Sports
A SEVEN-YEAR CLASH
OVER ALABAMA ARTWORK
Daniel Moore has depicted Alabama football in paintings for years, but the university wants him to sign a licensing agreement. An appeal of the case will be heard on Thursday. Page B12
Arts
HANDEL PLAYERS MAKE
THEIR NEW YORK DEBUT
The London Handel Players make their New York debut with works by Johann Joachm Quantz, the greatest flute virtuoso of his time, and Frederick the Great, the Prussian king and talented amateur flutist, whose 300th birthday is this year. Page C5
Science
AIDS PREVENTION INSPIRES
CIRCUMCISION DEVICES
Now that three studies have shown that circumcising adult heterosexual men is one of the most effective ''vaccines'' against AIDS -- reducing the chances of infection by 60 percent or more -- public health experts are struggling to find ways to make the process faster, cheaper and safer. Page D1
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); TERRORISM (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); REDISTRICTING (84%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); VETERANS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); NATIONAL PARKS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); PNEUMONIA (50%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: LORD & TAYLOR LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); RICK SANTORUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SUDAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EGYPT (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

 
